ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries, please. The first item on today's agenda consists, first of all, in the discussion of several initiatives relating to the 2017 fires and the responses to these emergency situations, which start to list: in general, the projects of lein.o 661 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Create the military emergency unit ( PSD ), 662 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates a national programme to support the victims of the 2017 fires that affected the Portuguese territory for the recovery of the housing park ( PSD ), 663 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Measures to support enterprises and to resume economic activity in areas affected by forest fires ( PSD ) and 664 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the competitive procedure for the recruitment of the leading positions of the Integrated System of Protection and Relief Operations ( SIOPS ) ( PSD ) ; draft resolutions 1115 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishment of professional fire crews throughout the national territory and enhancement of volunteering ( PSD ), 1116 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote a new national forestry policy ( PSD ), 1120 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government amendments to support small farmers provided for in Ordinance No 347 -A / 2017 of 13 November ( PSD ) and 1122 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to combat erosion of slopes due to fires ( PSD ) ; generally projects of lein.o. 673 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs a commission for the elaboration of the internal tax status ( CDS-PP ) and 674 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 108 / 2017 of 23 November establishing measures to support victims of forest fires between 17 and 24 June 2017, as well as urgent measures to strengthen forest fire prevention and combat ( CDS-PP ) ; draft resolutions No 1105 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to support indigenous breeds affected by fires ( CDS-PP ), 1144 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government changes in support for farmers affected by the 2017 fires ( CDS-PP ), 1145 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government redefinite the forms of participation of the Armed Forces in civil protection missions and strengthen the air means of combating fires ( CDS-PP ), 1146 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government redefinite the forms of participation of the Armed Forces in civil protection missions ( CDS-PP ), 1147 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the payment of extra time of service to forest slag teams ( CDS-PP ), 1148 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish a mission unit for reconstruction ( CDS-PP ) and 1149 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of mitigating and restoration measures for the soils wooded by fires ( CDS-PP ) ; in general draft law No 668/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — extends the application of Law No 108 / 2017 of 23 November establishing measures to support the victims of forest fires between 17 and 24 June 2017, as well as urgent measures to strengthen prevention and combat forest fires, to all municipalities affected by forest fires in 2017 ( PCP ) ; draft resolutions 1131 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the harmonization of the processes for supporting the victims of the 2017 forest fires, extending the simplified support process up to EUR 10 000 and ensuring support for the loss of income ( PCP ), 1132 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends support for the recovery of second dwellings in municipalities affected by forest fires in 2017 ( PCP ), 1134 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt an integrated strategy for the recovery of fire-affected areas ( BE ), 1135 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to support livestock and specifically indigenous breeds affected by fires ( BE), 1137 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish, throughout the national territory, permanent intervention teams of professional firefighters whose service is provided 24 hours ( BE ), 1028 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Training and sensitization of citizens on how to act in case of danger resulting from forest fire ( The Greens ), 1100 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Self-protection programme in the event of forest fire ( The Greens ), 1101 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Awareness and information campaigns, strategic and proximity, designed to prevent the ignition of forest fires resulting from negligent human actions ( The Greens) and 1150 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Identification and minimization of the impacts of forest fires on natural resources, such as water and soils ( The Greens); in general, the projects of lein. 670 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amends the legal regime applicable to Portuguese firefighters in the mainland, approved by Decree-Law No 241 / 2007 of 21 June ( PAN ), and 671 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — establishes the imposition of a competitive procedure for the award of preponderant decision-making positions of Civil Protection ( PAN ) ; and draft resolution No 1108 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a specific programme to support the installation and implementation of forestry models using oaks, chestnuts and other leaves (NAP). To present the initiatives of the authorship of the PSD, Mr. Fernando Negrão has the floor, to whom I would like to congratulate on the anniversary, which is a matter for everyone. [[General applause and laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I thank you all very much. The PSD presents in this debate eight legislative initiatives which have as their primary reason the obligation to provide justice to those who have died, those who have been wounded, those who have lost family members and friends, those who have been stripped of their property, those who have lost nothing and those who have suffered and still suffer. The Portuguese, all Portuguese, and, in particular, the victims call for action. They demand action with measures. They demand action with appropriate measures so that the horror that happened does not repeat itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u3	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u4	The Portuguese and, in particular, the victims will not forgive all those who have been missing, putting their lives at risk, as well as their livelihood, as it is well demonstrated in the report on the fires of Great Pedrogão, whose Independent Technical Commission, at a good time, the PSD had the initiative to present and which was approved unanimously. The Portuguese and, in particular, the victims are and will be vigilant, are and will be demanding, do not forgive and will not forgive if again those who have the obligation to protect and help fail again. I repeat: the Portuguese and, in particular, the victims will have zero tolerance to whom, through neglect or neglect, they will once again leave vast areas of the national territory or leave 'the God will give' their populations, as if there were no relief, no state or country. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have a country and we are proud of it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u6	We have a state and we want it to be attentive, effective and present. We have structures and means of relief and we want them to work. We lack, yes, and long ago, organizational capacity, courage to find solutions to get everyone to talk to each other, coordinating themselves. We lack demand, responsibility, supervision and end up with the partisanization of the State and, in particular, technical and operational places. [[PSD applause.]] That is to say, we urgently need a State that works effectively, competently, with the ability to add and call to it the most qualified ones and, above all, that has as a central concern the relief and aid, when it is needed, and the safety and tranquility of people on their daily lives. Therefore, and returning to legislative initiatives that cannot fail to be framed in the State which must function effectively, I would stress, from now on, that it creates the emergency military unit. It is noted that the report produced by the Independent Technical Commission says that the Armed Forces, and I quote « (... ) being civil protection agents, are not properly framed in the devices and are under-utilized in forest defence operations and in the fight against rural fires ». Where natural disasters occur with harmful consequences, as is the case with fires, Portuguese ask why the military is absent in patrol actions, prior to the occurrence of the catastrophe, logistics, with regard to their combat, and the surveillance of their consequences, in particular those of the fires. This question, which the Portuguese always ask, has not been answered. The answer arises with this legislative initiative, giving reason to the question that never ceases to be asked and giving it a solution through the creation of an operational structure covering the three branches of the Armed Forces and which will act in the prevention, firefighting and the recovery of affected infrastructure. We thus respond to the Portuguese and at the same time give substance to the prestige of the National Armed Forces. in the same sense, a bill is presented concerning the creation of teams of professional firefighters throughout the national territory, without calling into question the valuable soldiers of peace who have voluntarily provided and will certainly continue to provide invaluable services to the country. These teams should have a strengthened local component so that operational interventions are rapid and knowledgeable of where they are, stressing that incentives for volunteering should be strengthened in order to strengthen firefighting capacity. There is also the bill that establishes a competitive system for the recruitment of leading positions of the Integrated System of Protection and Relief Operations, defining functional profiles and contents and official validation systems of the capacity of appointees for the performance of their functions. In this way, it is intended to end appointments from time to time, replacing them with a system of contests that favours training, competence, experience and merit to the detriment of opaque or interested criteria. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I did not speak in all the legislative initiatives delivered because of a lack of time, but the three now summarily explicit can be an example of what should be, with speed, the future in preventing and combating disasters. Finally, common sense—I repeat, common sense—is also what we are asked for and demanded of us. The towing of this PSD initiative, with the absence of the Socialist Party, all the other political forces presented legislative initiatives, which is to be praised, in a plural search effort for the best solutions. Good sense also requires that we do not repeat what happened during the discussion of the State budget in which all the legislative initiatives of the PSD relating to this matter have been plunged. And why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? Because they were PSD. That good sense prevails, that it is not wrong again, much less by sectarianism, because, and I want to believe that it is so, what together is intended to contribute to effectively doing justice to all the victims of this summer's fires. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u7	To present the CDS-PP's authorship initiatives, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I shall begin exactly where Mr Fernando Negrão has completed this speech, saying that, of course, the initiative that the PSD has taken, to schedule for today this set of projects, even after all the discussion we have had on this subject over recent times and, above all, after the State budget, is still relevant, important and urgent.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u10	I would like to say that, from our point of view, we could not miss this debate, until we can also say that all the proposals we have made on this subject — moreover, the overwhelming majority of the proposals we have put forward in the State budget — have not merited welcome and have not been supported. What is at stake in this issue of fires is, once again, and it should not be forgotten, nor, in any case, whitening, the question of the responsibility of the State. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u11	That is what we are talking about, i.e. the responsibility of the State, of a State that has failed in what is its most basic function, which is to protect its citizens. We are talking about a state that has proved itself bankrupt and a State that has failed and has also failed because of a huge inability to predict and incompetence of those who had the responsibility to be competent, in particular the current Government of the Republic. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Today, already from the State Budget, this debate is timely and the CDS presents a set of initiatives that I will list, making a first presentation, in a rather generic way. First, all the victims of this summer's fires must have the same treatment, they must see the same kind of justice done. To say this is also to say that this was neither the approach nor the way the Government has addressed this matter since the first day. So when some political forces, the opposition and the majority here put forward proposals for the rapid extrajudicial compensation of the victims, what did the Government and the Socialist Party do? They didn't want to. Only then, the posteriori, were they obliged to do so. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u12	Later, even when they made the decision to compensate the fatal victims, they ignored the situation of the wounded. Only under the intervention of other political forces and even the timely call of attention from the President of the Republic, the Government finally extended compensation to the serious wounded, and this was only done in the State budget, but could have been done long before, because it had passed long months between one thing and the other. So we want to make it clear here that all the victims of the fires, whether they are the fatal victims, whether they are the wounded, will have the same treatment and this implies several things. Then, as it is, as is, in our first bill presented here, we intend that the law of support for the victims of the fires of Pedrogão Grande, which is exclusive to them, be extended to the victims of the fires of 15 and 16 October. This is the first proposal, which is obvious and obvious. But, too, and on this point, I would like to say that it is not understandable or acceptable for us, and we hope that the Government will correct this same matter—that, having there are two reports, a request by this Parliament, that of the Independent Technical Commission, and another request by the Government, led by Prof. Xavier Viegas, there is now no new report, that the Government does not ask for a new report, until, as with respect to Pedrogão, it will be fundamental to determine the amount of compensation to the victims of the fires of 15 and 16 October. This seems quite obvious to me. By the way, and the seal, I mean, in relation to this report, that the film we have seen, the government wants to keep some secret, of not wanting to reveal, of resisting to the last of its possibilities to this same revelation... [[Protests by PS MP José Miguel Medeiros.]] Mr President, I listened to Mr Prime Minister today saying that he would hand over the whole report to the Ombudsman, he said this on the same day that the Minister of Internal Administration said that Parliament cannot have access to that same report. It's not acceptable! Who controls the government is we here, this House, not the Ombudsman. [[CDS-PP applause.]] That's why it's not acceptable. Let me tell you, Mr President, that it is good for the government to take the road, because still today — the honourable Member was not there — at the headquarters of 1. the Commission, the Socialist Party prevented it from voting on the request of the CDS...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u13	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u14	... so that they would immediately begin to make efforts to get the report here. You know what I'm saying to you, even in a lighter tone, sir? You are very concerned with CNPD ( National Data Protection Commission ), with respect for CNPD and with an opinion that has some absurd aspects, when CNPD itself has already said that the Assembly of the Republic and Members could have access to that same opinion. The gentlemen. Members are so worried about CNPD, but perhaps they will have the chance to see the report first on CMTV (Manhã TV post) than on CNPD! That's what's gonna happen to you!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u16	And the honourable Members will be the last to know it, which is absolutely unacceptable. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u17	Therefore, it is good that the treatment is equal, because this report is important for the compensation to be seen, done, weighted and approved. I also want to say that we propose again the creation of a mission unit for all the territories affected by fires, a mission unit that has autonomy, that has intervention capacity, that does not depend solely on the government, that is led by a personality of national or regional importance and that leads all this effort to reconstruction of the interior. We have proposed and proposed again, because this matter has not been welcomed in the budget, the creation of a committee to make a tax status for the inside. It is not a new matter, several governments have sought to do so, some governments have even approved measures of tax differentiation from the inside, the fact is that, as has been said, this is the opportunity for us to come together and turn around, we will change our attitude about a tragedy. We do not propose any concrete solution, we propose the existence of a committee — in fact, this is how the last fiscal reform was carried out, with a committee of technicians, experts, experienced people —...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u18	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u19	... with teachers, with representatives of the parties, with qualified people, to do a serious study in order to know whether, somehow, we can help that investment in the interior, the way of companies into the interior, can help this same reconstruction. On the other hand, we present projects that aim and have as an essential concern the involvement of the Armed Forces in forest fires. Moreover, I have already said that all projects, of whatever party, that are relevant and consistent with what we defend will have our support, and so it will be with, in particular, a project that has already been discussed here and which has to do with the role of the Armed Forces. I want you to be clear, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the involvement of the Armed Forces in forest fires is either prevention or combat, was blocked for many years by those who understood that, from a constitutional point of view, this was not possible. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u20	And it wasn't us, we were always in favour of a greater involvement of the Armed Forces. Having overcome this difficulty, which came especially from the leftmost benches, what we now propose is not the involvement of the Armed Forces, which already exists, what is proposed, and we will be as clear as possible, is the creation of a special unit, with special training, with affective means, i.e. a unit prepared for intervention in chaos scenarios, in scenarios of great crisis, in scenarios of great complexity, in particular in large forest fires. [[Protests by PS MP José Miguel Medeiros.]] Sir, agree or not, vote. Now, say some things in the middle doesn't do any good! Vote, and if you don't agree, say it! Therefore, this is proposed, and it is proposed with tranquility, serenity and seriousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u22	I also want to say that if the Air Force is going to coordinate and is going to be responsible for all air resources to combat fires, we agree, but then it is good to say whether or not the Air Force will have conditions, it will have or will not have the means to exercise that same responsibility, because otherwise what we are shooting at the Air Force is a responsibility that it will then have no conditions to exercise. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u23	We also have a number of proposals related to the agricultural sector, ranging from support for forest slags, specific support for farmers, the increase in institutional support, with regard to indigenous breeds, and, in addition to what has already been done, seen and planned, the possibility of minimizing the problem of soil erosion. These proposals, like the others, will be mentioned later, either by Mrs Vania Dias da Silva or by Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, our coordinator in the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea. So I am not going to lengthen on this, just to conclude, that this is the set of proposals that we make, in a constructive and positive way, and we hope that this is the moment, because we will not give up this idea, for the Government, on the one hand, to stop wanting not to talk about this matter, because by not speaking it does not assume its responsibility, and on the other, to have in every decision that has to make a decision always to defend, always in protection, at the same time as Mr. Prime Minister has the defacetism, as he had, to say, "I was there the next day! I was working it out! I do not need anyone, nor the President of the Republic, to warn me of this very matter! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u24	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u25	The fact is that this was the government that, even alerted, even warned, ignored what happened in Pedrogon and allowed the tragedy to repeat on October 15. And this was the Prime Minister who, following the tragedy, was there the next day, but one or two days later he left the country, ignoring one of the greatest tragedies this country has ever experienced. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u26	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor to present the draft resolutions of The Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The tragedies of the forest fires that took place this year in 2017 continue to mobilize Parliament for the adoption of measures that it imposes, and that should be the case. For the Greens Ecological Party at this stage, there are issues that need to be assured, and one of them is to ensure that the families of the victims and all the damage to the forest fires of Pedrogão Grande and the fires of 15 and 16 October. There can be no discrepancy between support for each other. What is also required is that these support be speedy, so that, as far as possible, the lives of these people can return to normal—as much as they can return to normal in these circumstances. It is also necessary to ensure that support does not fall into bureaucratic processes, which, in practice, prevent such support from being effective. For example, farmers are repeatedly complaining that there is a huge bureaucracy in terms of the possibility of obtaining support that is more than €5,000. It is not possible that the bureaucratic processes end up making access to these support impossible. It is also important to ensure that firefighters are not always being confronted with lack of means, with lack of money for the recovery of vital material, particularly for the arrangement of injured or damaged cars. It is therefore essential to create more early, faster and more effective mechanisms in support of firefighters. It is also important to ensure, once and for all, that the forest fire prevention paradigm is effectively a reality — this is a matter on which Greens have been insisting for years on this part. The bulk of funding goes to combat, but it is essential to bet on prevention. And, in fact, prevention is the best way to help combat, so that the size of forest fires does not reach scenarios as it has achieved. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this particular debate, the contribution of The Sees is essentially about three essential issues. The first is that if there is something that has become quite evident with the tragedy of Great Pedragon, it is that the generality of people, faced with the concrete danger of the fire advance, does not know how to act to protect themselves and save themselves. Stay at home? Act? How? Run? Which way? In strict, in Portugal, there is no culture of the State of preparation for self-protection, when dangers of this nature beat us to the door. This is indeed a failure that the State has had towards citizens: it does not prepare, inform, train and guide them on how to react to a danger, such as a forest fire. It must be clear that this knowledge and this culture of personal protection, or self-protection, as we wish to call it, does not imply, in any way, that the State is stagnating or diminishing its intervention devices and its system of civil protection of aid to people and goods, nor does it, even as it is evident, cease to apply the preventive measures that are imposed. Not at all. What is intended is not to keep people out of the system itself, seeking that they are not excluded from the protection paradigm and that they may be equipped with preparation and information that can also help them to react in situations of serious risk. What it's about is actually helping people know how to react. The Greens therefore propose to launch a programme with local, regional and national implementation, which contains measures to equip the populations with knowledge about how to react in case of forest fire and how to better ensure self-protection. We also propose to ensure that the self-protection program is tested on the ground by means of simulations. And it is also essential to involve in the implementation of the self-protection programme the collaboration of agents who prevent and combat forest fires, such as firefighters, forest guards, nature watchers, forest surfers, among others, and it is also necessary to request the cooperation of media to disseminate the essential contents of the self-protection program in mass. A second contribution which the Greens make to this debate is also linked to what is also enshrined in the report produced by the Independent Technical Commission, moreover, in line with other reports already produced, including by the Assembly of the Republic, from other dramatic circumstances of the reality of forest fires. The fact is that these reports point to a fragility that deserves to be taken into account, which is the fact that most fires give rise to forest fires are caused by negligent and accidental actions. There is no doubt that there are ignitions resulting from malicious acts and criminal intent. Moreover, the emergence of hundreds of ignitions on the same day makes it difficult for automatic suspicions of fire not to be managed. However, there is a large percentage of ignitions that, according to technicians, seem to have the same origin in negligent human actions. We therefore draw attention to the report of this Independent Technical Commission, insofar as it alerts to the fact that awareness-raising campaigns, which have existed to prevent such neglect, are too generalist and therefore not effective, and suggest that these campaigns should be dedicated to specific population groups. In fact, the Greens feel that, in addition to being known that in recent years they have invested in awareness-raising campaigns, the model of campaigns produced so far ends up coming little to people, without creating enough concern that leads them to relate certain risk acts to the possible dramatic consequences. That is why the Greens propose that the Government ensure that strategic awareness and proximity campaigns will be undertaken and tested in the field, aimed at the prevention of ignitions and directed to various groups identified as potential responsible for ignitions resulting from negligent actions. The Greens also propose to ensure that awareness-raising and training campaigns are carried out with the collaboration of agents who, on the ground, prevent forest fires and involve themselves in the implementation of these campaigns various institutions and entities, including schools, health units, passenger transport companies and, of course, social communication. The third contribution the Greens make to this debate is the fact that forest fires have very serious environmental impacts, not only because of excessive release of pollutants and greenhouse gases but also because of how water quality can be affected due to the occurrence of chemical components, coming from the burned areas, for the watercourses. The same question may be raised at the level of soil pollution, but in this component it is also important to refer to the fragility that the burning areas acquire at the level of the reaction to erosion phenomena, often promoting the risks of spillovers, particularly in areas of greater decline. So, in order to ensure a genuine and consistent intervention, at the level of the prevention of these vulnerabilities and risks caused and / or aggravated by forest fires, The Greens presented, as did Mrs and Mrss. Members should remember, a proposal for an addition to the 2018 State Budget which referred to the obligation of the Government in 2018 to develop a set of protection measures to prevent soil erosion, water contamination and the risk of spillover in the forest areas burned. This Green proposal was adopted unanimously. However, in order for the measures to be implemented and to be effective, it is essential that strict identification of the sites and natural resources threatened by this route be made. What is required is to identify the vulnerabilities and risks in particular to prevent incidents and accidents. This is therefore also one of the proposals that the Greens bring today to the Assembly of the Republic. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would also like to note here the fact that the PSD repeatedly criticises the active, proactive and insistent intervention that the Greens have had in relation to the need to create a more resistant forest and to overcome the fact that forest settlements have implications for this resilience of the forest. The PSD has repeatedly criticized the Greens on intervention and the proposals they have had concerning the need to stop the monoculture of the eucalyptus and the huge spots of eucalyptus that work as real traces in our forest. However, the PSD is now presenting an initiative on the reforestation of areas burned with slow growth species and support for this reforestation in order to eradicate reforestation with rapid growth species. Welcome to wisdom, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! But, frankly, I do not know whether it is to believe in the good intention of the PSD in this matter, or whether it is only to "make beautiful" when, in fact, it is more than tested and verified that the eucalyptus and the immense spots of eucalyptus have implications for the dimensions of forest fires. And perhaps it should be recalled that the PSD/CDS Government has approved a law, a tree-keeping and re-arboring regime which, simply and simply, liberalized the eucalyptus plantation. This complaint of incongruence and lack of coherence of the PSD on these matters is therefore made here. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Even to conclude, the phenomenon of climate change, as so many and so many times the Greens here have reaffirmed, it is there, it will worsen-CL and the climate extremes will show its claws. It is essential that we create effective policies for mitigating this phenomenon, but also policies for adapting to the consequences that climate change has on our territory. And to promote effective policies in this regard is, without doubt, Mrs and Mrs. Members, ensure the safety of our population, our country and our essential and natural resources. [[Applause from The Greens and Members of the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u28	Mr. João Ramos has the floor to present the CFP's initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are facing an agenda of the PSD, which has joined a set of other proposals. 42 initiatives were initially under discussion, then going to 40 and now it is 30. After the fires and the drama in the lives of so many Portuguese, after being clear that, more than law, what has been missing for many years was action and after going to criticize the government by the various, dispersed and sometimes discrepant, portals and offices, except when the Assembly of the Republic is discussing, of a seated, several dozen projects, avulsive projects, ranging from the area of justice to public administration, passing through health, education, agriculture, environment, internal administration and others. And there are, in any case, proposals for the State budget rejected and transformed into draft laws; proposals already discussed in committee and now scheduled for plenary; proposals that reproduce others already included in the Budget; proposals to do what was not done now when it was government; proposals to "put a hammer" substantive positions on other things; and proposals for the law to be complied with. The victims deserve more serenity and respect from those who have brought the country to this plight, from those who have been responsible for the policies subordinate to the great capital, the guidelines and restrictions of the European Union which have resulted in desertification and depopulation of vast territories, regional asymmetries, degradation of the public structure of support for forests and the rural world, degradation of the device of prevention and combating fires, promotion of the interests of the economic groups of cellulose, wood and cork and large agribusiness, closure and degradation of public services, extinction of fragesias. Nor will the Assembly of the Republic go if it is limited to act to satisfy the media voracity. The PCP doesn't understand it's all right. It is sufficient to have followed the way in which I intervene in the State budget to know that it demands a lot of change in how the government has managed this situation. But it also does not ignore the set of decisions taken, including here in the Assembly of the Republic. It therefore has an intervention in this very focused discussion essentially. First, through a bill, the CFP proposes that the victim support law, approved in the Assembly of the Republic, apply to all victims and fire-affected municipalities, in this year 2017. Four months have passed since its adoption, in general, and because the PS did not accept its final vote at the time, only 15 days have passed since its publication. This requirement has become clear. This amendment is essential to eliminate discrepancies between the support provided to the victims of the June fires, the October fires and other fires. A discrepancy that persists up to the level of concepts, as it seems to denounce the controversy between the concept of victim and the support or not to survivors with severe consequences of fires. Another proposal that the CFP recommends to the Government is uniformization in support of victims. Victims are victims, regardless of whether they were affected in June, August or October.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u30	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u31	It also proposes the PCP extending to 10 000 € the simplified support, now in the 5000 €, which is manifestly insufficient for existing needs, which is only now easily proven. It also proposes the creation of support for loss of income to avoid abandonment of productive activity and of the rural world. Supports for the replacement of productive potential are important, but do not cover the loss of income. The loss of the livestock or of an olive tree or vineyard determines that, during the next two, three or four years, those farmers cannot collect income from their holding and should therefore be supported. Finally, the CFP proposes that, despite the priority to be given to the first residence, support measures should be established for the recovery of second dwellings, taking into account the importance that this type of temporary residents, in their natural majority of the localities affected, have in the social and economic participation in the lives of villages and villages. But none of this will take effect unless what is decisive, namely compliance with existing legislation, various recommendations and the approved State budget, particularly the strengthening of State structures, including the Ministry of Agriculture. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u32	To present the initiatives of BE, Mr. Carlos Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After the approval of the so-called 'forest package' and of the fires in the spring, more people died — this is the most dramatic consequence — and they burned vast forest areas. Large damage has been reported in housing, industries and agricultural holdings, with a profound negative impact on the lives of those territories. This obliges us to look at the interior and imposes on us an urgent effort to recover and rebuild, a work which, we are aware, will be for many years. The many proposals presented here cover several aspects of this enormous effort. We follow many of them and others not, as will be visible in our votes. We remember that the number of dead animals was perhaps the greatest of all. It is estimated that only in the Central Region, as a result of the last fires, 12 000 farms have been hit. Only in the greenhouse of the Star, the October fires ended with 8,000 to 10,000 sheep, according to information disseminated by industry associations. on the Internet sites of the ICNF (Instituto da Conservação da Nature and the Forests) and of Parliament, we found several reports with analyses and recommendations, produced following each year of major fires, and they all basically point to the same solutions. Invariably, structural causes have never been addressed and measures have never been taken to attach them, or have been timidly executed, or had « drawer veto ». It should be noted in the case of the FIF, the forest intervention zones which have never had the support they really needed. It is also the case of forest slags, which, although they are essential in the prevention and first intervention in the event of fire, have never been truly supported by several governments. in the current year, the management entities of the forest slag teams point to damage in the order of €18 000 / team and some threaten even to hand them over to the State if the financing system is not revised. The Left Block Parliamentary Group has made every effort to give centrality to issues relating to civil protection, and is also relevant to ensuring the safety of populations. In order to serve the country well, the actions and proposals present here today should necessarily have adherence to reality. By the way, we are talking here about the measure imposed by the Government for the allocation of support to cover losses between €1054 and €5,000 through a simplified process. This process was materialized by the opening of applications on Saturday 18, with a deadline until tomorrow and which requires the inclusion of the affected farmers on a DRAP website ( Regional Directorates of Agriculture and Fisheries ). Today, it is news that about 16 000 farmers will already be registered and will mobilise some EUR 46 million for now. So you were right about the Left Block when you claimed these simplified support. Still, many small farms, elderly people, will continue to live very isolated, forced to sign up on a website and within just nine working days. The authorities and the Ministry will have to make this survey proactively and register these people. They'll probably need more time, which will have to be given. It has failed to adhere to reality, as in many of the proposals discussed here. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the tragic events of this summer cannot let everything continue in the same way. All reports, studies, legislation and other documents must be brought together and incorporated in order to promote their articulation and to verify their suitability in the light of the new elements produced. Reforestation projects may not be encouraged, in particular under the RDP ( Rural Development Programme), without first being integrated into regional forestry planning plans, properly framed at the level of the municipality in the respective Municipal Management Plans (MDPs), and — very important — taking into account the new figure of forest management units, form of mini-fund organization, fundamental to the sustainable planning of the territory and forests. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is no forest reform or new forest policy without forest management units, and here there are those who erroneously insist on this omission. A public agroforestry extension service must be set up as a matter of urgency to support the organisation of producers and the reconstruction of agricultural and forestry holdings. in agri-environmental measures, producers cannot be penalized because they do not meet the commitments as a result of the losses of effects resulting from large fires. These producers cannot lose access rights to the basic payment scheme, the RPB, until the end of the Community framework, if they fail to recover the actual livestock needed to use them because it would be unfair and double penalty in the disaster, first, and in the withdrawal of support, now where necessary. In addition, an increase in unit support for indigenous breeds should be made during the period necessary for the recovery of the assets of the holdings concerned, which will take years. We support the adoption of specific support for the repopulation of indigenous breeds, such as bloke, star-tree and mountain goats, through amendments to the RDP 2020 ( Rural Development Programme 2014 - 2020 ) so that it will finance the purchase of breeding animals and ensure immediate funding for recreation centres for these breeds, which are so important to our country. Provisions applicable to extended livestock holdings should also be amended, in particular by recasting the system for the exercise of livestock activity, currently only adapted to intensive livestock. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the disaster of the fires and the consequent collapse of large regions of the interior have been dramatic for entire communities, but the support of the State must be addressed primarily to the weakest among the weakest, by imperative of justice and as a sign of a commitment that the country will not leave them behind, nor now nor ever. That's what the Left Block defends. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u34	Mr André Silva has the floor to present his initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The area of prevention and firefighting requires a change of model and changes in the dominant basic conceptions on the allocation of political positions are a fundamental premise, if not to live better, to feel that we are safe and protected by qualified and competent professionals, in addition to their political sympathies. Therefore, we defend, through a bill, the imposition of a competitive procedure for the allocation of decision-making positions of Civil Protection rather than the practice of political appointment. The report of the Independent Technical Commission, which thoroughly analysed the extensive range of failures that contributed to the death of 64 people in the fires of Great Pedrogon, presents several lectures and one of them is related to strategic decisions, which are not alien to the tacit and strategic options that have been taken. Discoordination from poor perceptions and decision-making resulted in the situation we all know. The same Report also emphasizes the need for the incorporation of knowledge and the establishment of parameters in the definition of profiles appropriate to the command functions in the operational areas and concludes by pointing out that, incomprehensiblely, there is no correlation between the personal competences of the elements of Civil Protection and the functions for which they are appointed. Another bill we bring today the debate aims at volunteer firefighters, 90% of the existing body in our country. We intend to establish a public service dispensation scheme for workers of the direct and indirect administration of the State, including the autonomous administration, in the following cases: during the critical period of forest fires, where there is a declaration of activation of the special warning state of orange or red level or where an emergency plan of civil protection of municipal or district scope is activated. This dispensation covers citizens who, cumulatively, hold the quality of a volunteer fireman and are called by their fireman body. in the background, the NAP considers that this extraordinary dispensation should be acted not only in case of combatting forest fires but also in response to other disasters that, throughout the year, affect all municipalities of our country, such as full episodes, floods or nevaries, or even in events of earthquakes or tsunamis. Finally, we have a third initiative in which we propose that a specific programme be set up which compensates for the loss of income for a few years for the creation of oak forests, chestnuts and other leaves, thus promoting that, even in a fragmented individual ownership framework, owners and associations of forest producers can be referred to other types of forest, less profitable in the short term, but that in the medium and long term they can be even more profitable, from the point of view not only of producers but also of safety and collective good.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u36	Mr José Miguel Medeiros has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today, in this House, a set of about 40 diplomas dealing with multiple subjects, directly or indirectly, related to the tragic forest fires this year. To discuss in such a short time so many diplomas on the most diverse subjects is undoubtedly a difficult exercise, even if we want to ensure the credibility of the discussion and the decisions taken here. In fact, discuss simultaneously and in so little time diplomas that aim to deal with such diverse issues as support for farmers, forest producers and businesses or forest reorganisation and aid to victims together with diplomas that create military units and others that regulate professional firefighter careers or that deal with the repair and acquisition of housing or competitions to fill vacancies in the civil protection structure is work! It would even be a true exercise of parliamentary acrobatics, worthy to appear in the Guinness Book of Records. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, about one month ago, on 21 October, the Government materialized the commitments it made before the Portuguese, placing itself on the side of the consensus found in this Parliament and taking up all the conclusions and recommendations of the Independent Technical Commission designated by this House, on a proposal from the PSD. In particular, it was committed to the reform of the prevention and fight against forest fires, to the professionalization and training of operations and their structures. In October, the Government defined as essential issues the articulation and approximation of prevention and the fight against rural fires and a new strategy and organization for civil protection. In October, the Government defined as priority issues the strengthening of the professionalization of civil protection agents and the training of the entire system. In October, the Government acknowledged that the reform of the forest fire prevention and control model would necessarily have to go through the implementation of cross-cutting changes to all protection and relief structures, which are indispensable for improving system effectiveness as a whole, including more effective participation by the Armed Forces. And we all knew, at that very moment, that the new national strategy of civil protection obviously presupposed the strengthening of the role of the Armed Forces in the prevention and fight against fires. At the time, the PS Parliamentary Group questioned the position of the PSD, which it intended to set aside the conclusions of the Independent Technical Commission, questioning the work of the Commission which it had proposed and which was unanimously recognized and welcomed by this House. Today, in the face of all these initiatives, and especially the initiatives of the PSD Parliamentary Group, which tells us that you want to go beyond the recommendations of the Commission, where have we heard this? — by proposing, among other measures, changes to the role of the Armed Forces in the civil protection system, what we can say is that the PSD arrives late and late in this process. After all, the PSD knew beforehand that this and other of its proposals correspond to the recommendations of the Independent Technical Commission and therefore knows that what we are proposing today is a set of measures which the Government is already implementing. Many of these measures also include the Resolution of the Council of Ministers of 21 October and other approved diplomas. It is therefore legitimate to ask the PSD Parliamentary Group what is left of us at this time? Here, it is legitimate to question whether the PSD, after all, considers that the report of the Independent Technical Commission should deserve the respect of this House, which has requested and legitimized it, and of the Government itself, which adopted it as the basis of the ongoing reforms, or whether on the contrary, it believes that the report and the consequent work of the Government should be ignored and despised, as it seems to be able to understand from the presentation of this and several other initiatives that are present to us today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I also ask the PSD where it has been during the budgetary debate that this House has held in recent weeks and in which significant amounts have been included for the implementation of many of these measures and proposals. It therefore seems clear to us that the PSD, with the proposals 'a meter' presented to us today, has only intended to make media moves of circumstances with strictly political and party objectives, seeking to feed the controversy and take advantage of the dramatism of the situation of the territories affected. In fact, the desire for political use is such that the PSD does not manage to present a proposal for interference in the sphere of autonomy of the internal organisation of the Armed Forces, which the Independent Commission itself considered not to be adopting and that the Army has already said, through its highest patents, that it considers megaloman. Indeed, this bill, which aims at the creation of an emergency military unit, implies changes to essential diplomas for the stability of the Armed Forces, as is the case with the Organic Law of Bases of the Organization of Armed Forces, without taking care to promote its previous discussion or listening to the military and the Government itself, as would be expected from a proposal that was truly serious. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when we discussed the Commission's report about a month ago in this House, I had the opportunity to say on behalf of the PS that this is the time for action and response, the time to compensate the victims, recover and rebuild the devastated territories and promote the necessary reforms so that these situations do not repeat themselves. Therefore, the PS bench can only congratulate and greet the government for having been taking measures and providing concrete support to the affected populations, in compliance with their obligation, while the opposition engages with extemporaneous proposals or attempts to blame the government for what it does, or for what it says it does not do, in an unbridled competition to see who comes first to television. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the irresponsibility and demagogy that we have seen watching by the opposition are well evidence of the state of despair to which it has arrived.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u38	A state of despair is that of people and families!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u39	When a constructive stance was expected, respecting the affected populations and promoting consensus, what we have been witnessing, especially on the side of the opposition, is an option for demagogy and political opportunism. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u40	People are desperate for family members who have died!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u41	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau does not record any more entries on this point at this time, so it expects the parliamentary groups to take a decision on this immediate question, which will have to be resolved in a moment. [[Pause.]] Mr Leite Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We have now heard in the words of Mr José Miguel Medeiros that the PSD has failed to bring these proposals to this House. in the understanding of the Socialist Party, if I understood its talk well, the Social Democratic Party should be silent, in fact, as the Socialist Party did in this debate and as the Government did, with the lack of appearance that it has had, over these months,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u43	... in solving problems and in combating security, property protection and citizens' issues. [[PSD applause.]] That, yes, honourable Member, was a lack of appearance that the country will never forgive this government because it failed to take into account what is most important: the security and lives of the Portuguese. in fact, the Socialist Party seems to be very upset by the Social Democratic Party to present to this House a set of proposals that aim to—see there, Mr President! —... [[Protests by PS MP José Miguel Medeiros.]] ... resolve urgent, burning problems of the populations that were hit during this summer by the forest fires that spread through this country outside. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u44	Mr President, we are very proud of the proposals we have tabled here and we do not understand any other question: if the proposals were already known, I do not know why there is no time to discuss them. If you knew them, you could discuss them again here and somehow confront your ideas and the differences that mark the Socialist Party in this matter, in relation to the proposals of the Social Democratic Party. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr José Miguel Medeiros, I shall speak of the proposals on economic and economic support for businesses and territories that have been devastated by forest fires. Some of these measures are, in our view, urgent and urgent because they aim to solve problems — some of them mentioned here by several Members. Members — regarding the difficulty that companies and populations have in access to funds, access to finance, access to tools to solve many of the problems they are discussing, including the reconstruction of companies and the financing of these same companies. The Social Democratic Party proposes that this House and the Government be created, from the outset, conditions for companies to be able to access bank financing, creating a guarantee mechanism that is essential. Especially when everything has been lost, when the ability to work has been lost, when the goods have been lost, it is essential to ensure that these companies can access the funds and, in some way, they can have the necessary coverage for the bank guarantee on the part of the State. But it is also essential to facilitate these companies financing their investment projects. In addition to the issues relating to Portugal 2020 and with the possibility of setting up a green road in the Balcão 2020 to enable these companies, these economic operators, to access these funds in a faster and more expeditious manner, it is essential in other cases that a specific line of financing be created that can in any way meet this challenge. In addition to these urgent and necessary measures, it is also essential to create some instruments for the medium and long term. From then on, a local programme of animation and development that enables these territories to relaunch development dynamics, engage in training, innovation and business economic dynamisation. A programme should also be set up to rebuild the villages. Today we learned that, two months later, there are many villages that do not even have telephones, television, finally, a set of fundamental services that are not yet restored. The aim of the programme presented here is to support the re-qualification of the public space, support the re-qualification of infrastructures and support the reconstructions themselves of buildings, and many of them are not covered at this initial stage. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have an instrument in Portugal 2020 that can be channelled effectively to ensure these development dynamics. ProDer ( Rural Development Programme ), which is a programme of Portugal 2020, can be redirected to channel and dynamize these opportunities and in some ways to create what is fundamental, which is to create value, create jobs that enable these populations to resume their normal life, to resume, above all, a sign and a sense of hope that is needed at this time. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, more than announcements and promises, people and economic agents need concrete measures, appropriate solutions. The Socialist Party, which has missed this debate, has here the opportunity, in addition to its political interests, of ideological prejudices and of the sovereign political, to give a clear signal that the proclaiming sense of the great national consensus is more than words and has concrete consequences. We expect the Socialist Party to be consistent and to vote in favour of the Social Democratic Party's proposals. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u45	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When fires are burning in the country, consuming thousands and thousands of hectares of forest and threatening people and goods, it becomes clear to everyone that something goes wrong in the forest and that there is an urgent change in forest policy. If there were any doubts, it would be enough to look at what happened to us during this prolonged and tragic summer, which seemed more everlasting. In fact, what happened this year with the fires requires us to look for ways to ensure that it is in the forest itself that the prevention of fires and any change must necessarily go through this central element. For this reason, it is absolutely necessary for the Greens to move on to support policy for the sector in a global and integrated view of the forest, based on the recognition and appreciation of its multifunctions, particularly at the environmental, climate, social, cultural, landscape and economic level. But the recognition of the important economic resource that the forest represents for the country cannot and should not be incompatible with the defence and enhancement of the other functions that the forest performs. It is necessary to break into policies which are based on a mere short-term economic vision and which benefit only a few restricted economic sectors, where cells prevail. It was, in fact, on the basis of these assumptions that the Greens committed themselves to placing on the political agenda the imperative to stop the expansion of the area of eucalyptus plantation. We knew that it would not be an easy task not only because this goal required the confrontation with great and powerful interests but also because of the situation of fragility and economic dependence of the vast majority of small forest producers, who, more than threatened to be without their land, need support and incentives. Knowing that the fight against the liberalisation of the eucalyptus would not be easy, with many obstacles ahead, yet the Greens did not cease to engage and collaborate in the search for legislative responses and solutions that would hinder the country's unbridled "eucaliptization" and would contribute to promoting a fire-resistant and diversified forest, sustained in the native species, and economically profitable. But this is just one of the many measures that are required to look at our forest as a sector that effectively needs a national strategy that assumes, as a starting point, that the forest is fundamental to life, performs various functions and must be managed sustainably. This was, we believe, an excellent contribution from The Greens to this purpose, which we must all mobilize. But there is still much to be done in this matter. We are talking about, for example, forestry planning, combating desertification, combating the abandonment of the rural world, the need to value our agriculture and the need to create incentives for owners to grow native species. And we're not saying anything again. in fact, The Greens have always warned of the fact that successive governments—under the responsibility of the PSD, the CDS or the PS— over the decades have pursued policies that have weakened our forest, promoting the abandonment of the rural world, the destruction of our agriculture,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u47	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u48	... generating inability of public services to respond to the needs of citizens and the territory, reducing the human means of surveillance and supervision, among so many other issues. These policies led to the abandonment of the territory, the ageing and isolation of populations, with a lower capacity to respond to the scourge of forest fires. It happens that when policies are promoted for the forest that place it almost exclusively at the service of a single sector and its economic interests, that of the celluloses, allowing the expansion of giant continuous forest monoculture stains, especially of the eucalyptus, it is as if we were putting the trail in the forest whose trend can only be disaster, with regard to the spread of forest fires. As for the means of fighting fires, the existing model and means have shown to fail in such dramatic cases as those that happened this year in Portugal. There are situations where coordination, the media, readiness to respond or sufficient means cannot fail, under the penalty of being literally out of control. It must be borne in mind, however, that when forest slag teams were eliminated, when the airline was extinguished, among many other issues, what was done was to weaken the means of combat. But there is another element for which The Greens have been drawing attention for years and which cannot be sidelined in this reflection: we are talking about climate change. In fact, the world is already experiencing the real and expressive effects of global warming. The action of climate extremes has already been clearly felt in Portugal, one of the consequences of the most highlighted climate change in all the reports they are studying on this subject. Spring, summer and autumn 2017 were characterized by a very hot and dry time, which was a factor in aggravating fire risk that cannot continue to be overlooked. In Portugal, we need to become aware of this phenomenon so that we can promote effective adaptation policies and this adaptation can of course not fail to take into account the need to generate a more resistant forest. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As we said at the time and in due course in the reaction to the tragedy that was brought upon us during this summer, and in terms of priorities, the Greens considered it necessary, and without delay, to recover the damage caused by the tragedy, to remain with a notion of what was lost, in addition to the painful loss of human lives, but also of how much it cost the State this sad tragedy. Then it is necessary, and it is still necessary, to ensure the availability of all the means necessary to support the families of the victims and the people who have lost their property, including their own dwellings, their crops and the infrastructure that supported them. Today, it is important to look at what has happened and seek not only to take legislative measures to prevent these tragedies from gaining the size they have gained this year but also to help better prepare people for how to act in case of danger resulting from forest fire. And on this subject, the legislative initiative which the Greens bring to discussion today is particularly noteworthy and which concerns the creation of a training and awareness campaign for citizens on how to act in case of danger resulting from forest fire, involving in this battle civil protection authorities, local authorities, schools and other agents who consider themselves relevant. In fact, given the size that forest fires have taken on, the Greens consider it absolutely necessary not only for rural populations to know how to operate but also for those who are visiting certain localities or in tourism will have everything to gain, for their own defense, if they have an idea of how to react in case of danger.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u50	We therefore consider it important that this information or training be given to people. The same is true of the Greens' proposal on the establishment of a self-protection plan in the event of forest fire. The Greens have no doubt that this measure has to be considered because, as has been clearly demonstrated during the tragedy of Pedragão Grande, many people have seen themselves in the face of a truly frightening circumstance. Faced with the danger of fire, they didn't know what to do, they didn't know if they were to run or stay. And, running away, where? It is these anxieties that are intended to be reduced by the legislative initiative which The Greens bring today also for discussion: to help people know how to react to the danger of fire. On the other hand, the reality of the forest fires that took place this year, in addition to the tragedy that constituted in terms of human life and the drama that represented for so many people who saw their homes destroyed, their agricultural machinery or even companies, has also dragged a set of environmental impacts from which it may result other serious problems which are now important to prevent, in particular, pollution of water and water sheets, but also at the level of pollution and soil erosion. It is therefore important that in the areas of the major fires of 2017 the Government promotes an assessment and identification of the risks of pollution and erosion caused or aggravated by the impacts of forest fires. And it is precisely on this subject that another legislative initiative that the Greens have brought to discussion today. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In view of all the initiatives being discussed today, we can easily see the importance of the matter, but this fact also shows that much is still to be done in connection with forest fires. The Greens do their part and once again contribute to the four legislative initiatives that we are presenting today for discussion. [[Applause from The Greens and Members of the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u51	For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS today brings the debate a set of four initiatives with impact on the forest and agricultural sectors, in order to minimize and somehow compensate for the effects that the 2017 fires have had in these sectors of activity. A first project, as already mentioned by Mr Telmo Correia, for the increase of aid to indigenous breeds affected by fires, one second, for the harmonization of support to farmers affected between the two periods of fires and also between the agricultural and other sectors of activity, a third project, with measures to mitigate soil erosion and, last, to safeguard the payment of extra working time provided by forest slag teams in terms of public service. with regard to indigenous breeds, it is important to say that the nearly 500 000 hectares of burning area in 2017 and the impact of the fires, essentially from October, led to the death of about 8,000 to 10,000 sheep, as mentioned above, being the vast majority of indigenous breeds and many of them responsible for the production of the DOP greenhouse cheese (Denomination of Protected Origin). The CDS therefore believes that the State cannot limit itself to not penalizing farmers because they do not comply with the commitments, in terms of the number of eligible animals, and proposes that there be an increase in aid to farmers in these regions with agri-environmental commitments. It is perhaps important to retain a set of numbers that I leave here: in the Centre region, there are about 32 000 sheep and goats with agri-environmental commitments, according to the reports of the AGPD, half of whom are sheep of the breeds eligible for the DOP greenhouse cheese. The Centre region receives only about 11 % of the funds from the indigenous races. These funds are already committed to the RDP (Rural Development Programme) and therefore the CDS proposal has no budgetary impact whatsoever, neither on the RDP nor in terms of the State budget. It is therefore the most fundamental justice to increase support for the indigenous breeds of producers who have been affected by fires.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u53	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u54	The second project was submitted because it is not understandable that farmers affected by the June fires with losses up to €5,000 have only to make a simplified candidacy to be compensated for their losses—because they could count on the solidarity of Portuguese and civil society—and farmers affected by the October fires have to resign themselves to the lack of solidarity of the State, and only some of those who had losses below €5,000 can enjoy a simplified candidacy, with all the others to apply for the RDP, with all the bureaucracy and additional associated costs. For the CDS, it is also not understandable that manufacturers and entrepreneurs who have suffered losses, e.g. between €50 000 and €200 000, have 85 % of the participation rate of Community funds in their applications for replacement of productive potential and farmers who are also entrepreneurs only receive 50 % support. Nor is it understandable that above that amount, €200 000, some, first Portuguese, receive 70 % of support and others, second Portuguese, receive 50 % of support and with a maximum ceiling of €400 000. Question, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if this is what the Government considers to be the value of the interior, territorial cohesion and social cohesion.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u56	The third project presented by the CDS in these areas aims to ensure that the funds needed to cope with post-fire emergency stabilization investments are allocated to minimize the impacts of the first rains on soil erosion.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u57	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u58	Some measures have already been announced by the Government but are essentially pilot projects and it is urgent that they be implemented on a larger scale. The rain, so desired by all, could have extremely serious consequences in these territories if we do not act in a timely manner. The CDS also understands that, in this process, it is essential to involve and count with the authorities, with the academy, but also with the organizations of forest producers, who have technical knowledge, knowledge of the owners and knowledge of the land, so they can, with enormous advantages, complement the work of the regional agricultural directorates. Finally, we present a project that will safeguard the payment of the public service provided by forest slag teams in the fires this summer. As is known, forest slags have to provide 110 days of public service and therefore receive about 40 000 € of support. This year, the public service was much larger and all the sapphires corresponded, therefore, contrary to what the Left Block proposed in the State Budget, to pay €20 000 for each team, it is necessary to determine how much time each team actually did more and to pay, in due proportion, the value each one should receive. It is of the most fundamental justice because it corresponds to the work that has been done and that the State must pay. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u59	Mr Berta Cabral, PSD, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u60	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD proposes to the Assembly of the Republic to set up a national programme to support the recovery of the housing park affected by the 2017 fires. This is a project that maintains all the current, evens all support, provides for shared management, does not create new structures and is a project that, as I said, is not exceeded. Not only is it not exceeded as it is, from our point of view, an absolutely necessary diploma. What we have today is a set of resolutions, decrees-laws and, indeed, a law that comes into force today, even though it relates to the fires of June—see well—that, among other things, it also deals with the recovery of housing, but only of permanent housing. These diplomas complicate and hinder the access of beneficiaries to these schemes and, above all, provide for different regimes for the June fires and for the October fires. A real blanket of flaps that needs to be uniformed. Our project uniforms all supports and is more comprehensive. It covers the acquisition of dwellings for replacement of those who do not have the feasibility of reconstruction and covers second dwellings, at the same time that it gives equal treatment to all victims affected by fires, regardless of whether they occurred in June, July, August, September or October, and covers all equally, regardless of whether they are Pedrogão, Mação, Oliveira do Hospital or Gouveia, to mention only a few. We are all Portuguese and all deserve the same treatment. It is not acceptable that, within just four months, the Government has created two different regimes, with different scopes as well. For example, it is noted that the regime for the June fires does not provide for the acquisition of new housing due to the inability to recover the damaged dwelling, while the October fires regime provides for this possibility. Our project brings together the two regimes and gives equal and unifying treatment. It should also be stressed that our project provides for participatory management, a management involving the IHRU (Instituto da Habitação e da Rehabilição Urbana), local authorities, through their respective inter-municipal communities, and the Union of Portuguese Mercy, a proximity management, which meets the principle of decentralization in local power, contrary to what the government does, in particular in the regime applicable to the October fires, which removes the authorities from the decision-making process. Once again, the government does the opposite in offices than it defends in public. How can it be that the autarchs, who have always been on the front line in support of the people, when everything has failed and when the government has left them to their fate, at the moment of repairing the damage, are removed by the same government from the decision-making process? Finally, and no less important, I reaffirm that our project does not create new structures. Whenever the government has a problem creates a new structure, but we strengthen existing ones, in this case, the IHRU, the Institute of Housing and Urban Rehabilitation, we empower their experienced technicians, their know-how, knowledge and experience of good practices. We do not agree with the duplication of structures that create new positions, bureaucracy processes and generate inefficiencies. What we propose to the country, sirs. Members, it is a unique diploma for the reconstruction of all dwellings affected by the fires in 2017 and that ends with the blanket of flaps in which the various and different regimes created by the government have transformed. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u61	Mrs. Isabel Moreira from the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u62	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It has been said here that the PS has not been present, but the PS has been present since the beginning and the Government has taken action since the beginning, fulfilling the recommendations already mentioned here. Still this week he took measures that will certainly not have escaped your ears, or intentionally escaped, by the tone of demagogy and populism from both the PSD and the CDS that we have already attended. the CDS, in a way, inventing an incident that did not take place today in 1. the Commission, and the PSD, in another way. I would like to congratulate Mr Negrão, who has been here for years, but he wants me to think that he has just been born for certain matters. [[PSD protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are days when you play with the dignity of Parliament. Anyone looking at today's agenda, for the majority of the diplomas under discussion, with a sudden blackout in memory, would be convinced that after the tragedies this year nothing has happened, I would be convinced that it has not been unanimously approved in this House that the creation of an Independent Technical Commission, suggested by the PSD, now conveniently out of memory, would be convinced that the report of that committee was not approved unanimously, would be convinced that the measures suggested in these diplomas — which are already under way, as the Country knows — would be aborted, would be convinced that Parliament has lost its memory of having approved a State budget providing for 696 million euros for this process. If you take this legislative avalanche as genuine in your intentions, you should consider it reasonable for this House to vote on measures contrary to the recommendations of the Independent Technical Commission. in this strange good faith, we would have to take good care of the Assembly of the Republic to interfere in ongoing procedures. We could also assume that the Journal of the Republic has ceased to publish resolutions of the Council of Ministers or that the PSD has stopped consulting. I am referring, in particular, to the resolutions of the Council of Ministers 160 and 157 — who know that they do not have any distribution by the honourable Members. Members and Members of Parliament, which are of obvious importance in the area of human rights. It is serious that they have not realized that the National Strategy for Preventive Civil Protection has been approved with five strategic objectives: to strengthen governance in risk management, to improve knowledge about risks, to establish strategies for risk reduction, to improve preparedness against risks and to involve citizens in the knowledge of these risks. The action plan involves, in terms of competence, the central administration, the ANPC ( National Civil Protection Authority ), the municipalities, the intermunicipal entities, the municipal civil protection committees and the parish. It's all in detail here. If you have failed to read the Journal of the Republic, I can have you distribute it. On the other hand, also in accordance with the Government Programme and the conclusions of the Independent Technical Commission, the Council of Ministers, through Resolution No 157 -A / 2017, firstly reformulated the principles of the forest defense system against fires, moving from the concept of Forest Defense against Fires to the concept of Defence against Rural Fires, based on the system of integrated management of rural fires, subdivided into two interdependent and complementary components and with autonomous management and accountability : the Rural Fire Management, oriented to the protection of forest areas, and the Protection against Rural Fires, oriented to the safeguarding of population clusters, including people and goods. Secondly, this resolution of the Council of Ministers, which I can also arrange to distribute, created, in the Presidency of the Council of Ministers, the Agency for Integrated Management of Rural Fires, to which the integrated analysis, planning and strategic coordination of the Integrated Rural Fire Management System is responsible, with the skills listed herein. What this resolution of the Council of Ministers does, in particular, is: reforming the model, bringing the approach between prevention and combat, which implies reviewing the missions and the statutes of the ANPC operational, in particular the Republican National Guard, and carrying out professionalization, training and specialization. In particular, competitive procedures are launched for the admission of military personnel to GNR and effective personnel to the National Corps of Forest Agents. As is evident, reading in particular Bill No. 664 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) and draft resolution No 115 / XIII ( 3 ). a ), both of the PSD, we find in them propaganda to utuology. This is the new design of the PSD: look at government measures and propose or recommend some of them. This is the case — in addition to what is said about competitive procedures — the use of volunteering. The gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament would like to read paragraph 8 of point II of the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 157 -A / 2017? I read: “Create the ‘Voluntary Youth for Nature and Forests’ program”. Frankly, there are political limits to what moves the parties' initiative. To present dozens of titles of initiatives as if we had not joined the Independent Technical Commission, their conclusions and what VV. They propose that it should not be done or done, that it should be one of the days when the dignity of Parliament should be played. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u63	Mr. Jorge Machado has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We discussed today in plenary a number of legislative initiatives in the field of civil protection that need consideration and analysis. Regarding the diplomas presented by the PSD and CDS-PP, which aim to create military units to combat fires, it is important to discuss the scope of these legislative initiatives and to discuss the role of the Armed Forces. The CFP believes that the missions of the Armed Forces are missions of sovereignty enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, they are a pillar of sovereignty and their missions are not, nor should they be, the fight against fires. Thus, this does not mean that the military of the Armed Forces cannot contribute in the fight against fires, always under the protection or civilian command, but in emergency situations and not in a substitute or alternative response to firefighters, as seems to make the PSD and CDS-PP bills believe. Then it was important to consider another problem: the creation of military units is proposed. The question is by what means, because PSD and CDS-PP know that the framework in which the Armed Forces work today is a highly deficient human resources framework. PSD and CDS-PP propose to create military units without precaution of this concern. In fact, it was important, in particular the CDS-PP, to correct the speech, because the CDS-PP has a speech when it meets with military leaders, within the framework of the National Defence Commission, in which it expresses itself against the creation of these military units for the fight against fires for civil protection and here in plenary proposes its opposite. But it is appropriate to say that they understand each other. With regard to diplomas amending the model for the choice of civil protection leadership positions, in particular the national operational commander, it is important to mention the following: first, the current model of merit assessment evaluated by CRESAP (Recruitment and Selection Committee for Public Administration ) provides no guarantee of choice for merit and, secondly, if it is necessary to effectively choose the most capable people, it is important to ensure the political accountability that the inherent position presupposes and, thus, we believe that there should be the same political accountability. We then have a set of initiatives that propose to recommend to the Government something that the government has already announced it would do — which is still being loaded — the creation of EIPs (Permanent Intervention Teams) in all councils. I leave a note for the legislative initiative of the PSD, which proposes teams of 10 elements in each cooperation of firefighters and in each municipal chamber, which deserves some consideration, concern and reflection: there may indeed be a duplication of units, but if professionalization is a path that is already being travelled it is necessary to articulate this path with the need for the valorization of volunteer firefighters. Finally, we have the Greens legislative initiative on training and awareness of how to act in cases of danger. It is imperative to provide the people with tools and knowledge in the field of civil protection, which unfortunately does not happen today. Having said this, two final notes: first, these measures in the field of civil protection should be framed in an overall review of the national civil protection system which is under way and which deserves further reflection, and the CFP is available for that same reflection; secondly, we cannot fail to record the hypocrisy of some parties, particularly the PSD, who, in the context of the discussion of the State budget, had the opportunity to solve concrete firefighter problems, for example, and did not do so. The PSD joined the PS in the lead of a better mechanism for returning VAT to firemen; the PSD joined the PS in rejecting the PCP proposal that attributed green gas oil fire companies, that is, cheaper, what is the most elementary justice, because firemen pay the same price for gas oil that pays any of the Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, any of the Portuguese and that doesn't make any sense. However, PSD and PS, I repeat, joined in rejecting this same proposal and the only proposal of the CFP that was approved with regard to firefighters was the exemption of vehicle tax, a proposal also of the most basic justice but which had the vote against the PSD. Therefore, here is the PSD disregard for protection. It is that, indeed, they had the opportunity to solve concrete problems in the context of the discussion of the State budget and did nothing, on the contrary they did not interfere. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u65	Mrs. Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It can be read in the recommendations of the report of the Independent Technical Commission, and I quote that « the special mechanism for combating forest fires does not provide for the mandatory existence of specialized human resources, with training and professional experience, which ensures the use of forecasting tools and / or support for the effective decision-making or implementation of system organisation standards ». In view of this reality, the Independent Technical Commission recommends that civil protection systems should be composed of professionals who must have the right skills and experience for the performance of functions. The Left Block has repeatedly been alerted to the need for the professionalization of civil protection. We appreciate the experience, effort and dedication of all firefighters and firefighters, professionals or volunteers, and we also advocate that the possible extension of professional firefighter teams will find the human resources it needs in the midst of the volunteer firefighters, who hold knowledge, training and experience. But because, effectively, the conditions for the performance of firefighters and firefighters' functions, with the availability and ability to respond in good time to fires or, in addition, the guarantee of protection and safety against fires under equal conditions for the entire population and throughout the national territory benefit from the professionalization of the civil protection system, the Left Block also brings here today a project that recommends the establishment, throughout the national territory, of permanent intervention teams of professional firefighters whose service is provided for 24 hours, and not only in the period from 9 to 5 hours, or we will remain in the same. Considering that these teams are made up of five elements, it is important to ensure that these PPEs are made up of never less than three per corporation or body of firefighters. Since the tragedy of this summer, what we have heard is that things have to change, we hope that change will actually have more reality and less longing. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u67	Mr. Santinho Pacheco, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The destruction caused by the fires this year has had a profound impact on a society and a much weakened economic fabric. We are now faced with the challenge of a generation. As great as the tragedy was the commitment of the government, the authorities, the Portuguese society in general. Portugal has not failed! Those who have followed with median attention the PSD opposition strategy will come to the conclusion that it is based on the idea-base of the worst, the devil coming, and changes the tactics in the issue of fires, preferring a collage to the good performance of government and the positive results of government action. in compensation for fatal victims and serious injuries, the government has made its way and fulfilled its obligation. Today, there are already amounts determined on the basis of the €70 000, and you will be the Ombudsman to fix the value on a case-by-case basis. Mr President of the Republic wants everything settled and the file closed until the end of the year. Decided? Great! But not for everyone. The PSD still has its project in 7. the Commission, which shows that the essential thing is not compensation for victims and their families but the party is news, and we could multiply the examples. Many of its proposals on today's agenda do not go from smoking curtains to the government's activities on the ground. This is the case of Bill No. 662 / XIII, which creates a program to support victims of fires for the recovery of the residential park. The objectives of this diploma have already been safeguarded through the REVITA Fund and Decree-Law No 142 / 2017, which establishes the Programme of Support for the Reconstruction of Permanent Housing with regard to the first housing, which is the responsibility of the municipalities, as set out in the State Budget, in Article 120. o-G, support for the second housing. Thus, this initiative is redundant and is not of any value or usefulness for the lives of populations. In summary, appropriate measures to support victims of housing fires have already been envisaged at the state budget for 2018 and under different legislation and are completed, in execution or in the launching of dozens of homes throughout the territory of the disaster. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The recommendation to the Government of the CDS to create a mission unit for reconstruction raises doubts as to its effectiveness. The multiplicity and diversity of programmes and measures already on the ground is not compatible with the creation of a structure that would only be at an intermediate level of relationship when the link can be direct between the private and the central and local administration. It will be essential to define strictly and objectively the programmes and measures to be implemented, as well as the terms of coordination at the highest level of the Government, particularly when they involve bodies and services from different ministries. With regard to various draft resolutions, as recommended by the Government to promote a new national forestry policy, when we all know that the Government has its own forestry policy, or that which recommends measures to combat erosion of the slopes, as a result of the fires, measures already under measure 8.1.4 of the 2020 PDR, with an available amount of about EUR 50 million, are no more than mere legislative frameworks to mislead the unwary and mark the agenda to be held. In short, on the agendas of the Assembly of the Republic, quantity does not rise with legislative quality. There are days like this: a lot of cunts and little grapes! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u69	Mrs Vania Dias da Silva from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If it is true that this debate does not start here and now, nor will it end here and now, we all know, it is no less true, as far as the projects under discussion today are concerned, or at least most of them, which should already be closed, with all the approved operational programmes and measures. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u71	I remember, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, everything is too late for those who wait and despair. It should be noted that everything we can do does does not eliminate tragedy and suffering, but it can help to mitigate it and make people move forward. But, no, for this government and for this majority, people are what matters the least. For this government and for this majority the numbers matter. For this government and for this majority, political gains are important for each party that composes it. For this government and for this majority, the pamphlets and the marathon of the propaganda of the measures that each one of them adopts are important. What is best for people, what best serves their interests, what can help them the sooner, that counts very little or almost nothing! If the proposals were of the majority, good or bad, those of the PS follow, those of BE, PCP and The Greens are approved and plunged to compose a branch that none can complain much but that still leaves some complaint capital to keep up to date and play the habit: in good we are, in the bad knob - us out and claim. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u72	It's a game we've been used to, but it's a game that few believe in. Your proof of life is made, but your proof of life is not the core of your responsibilities. The core of the responsibilities of all of us are the people, who your ideological prejudice ignores according to the proposer, invariably, and that is all, that is all and nothing else, which says today's debate, because all these proposals could and should be approved by now. But, no, we are forced to return to the discussion, probably lost, we already know, that it has at least an advantage: the advantage of all Portuguese to realize what the CDS comes from, willing to consensus by the people, and to what most comes, very little. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I am now focusing on three of the initiatives that Mr Telmo Correia has already put forward here and which I would like to make a little more density. To begin with, I wanted to say that none of these three initiatives have a significant financial impact on the immediate, no special immediate complexity, are meridianly evident initiatives for those who do not let themselves be blinded by attachment to power and ideological prejudice. I would like to begin by referring to the draft law which aims to set up a committee for the elaboration of the tax status of the interior. We all know, it is not a novelty, that one of the original sins of these fires is the abandonment of the interior. We therefore propose to set up a committee which examines ways to fix people inside. We have chosen the tax route because we believe that it is the most attractive and best that can compose interests in the presence. What do we want? A simple thing. We want this committee to study the best forms, which is most feasible, which is more compatible with our rule of law, which is possible with the scarce resources we have. in fact, we want it to be studied if and how feasible a differentiated IRS rate table for the interior; if and how feasible it is the creation of specific exemptions and deductions related to transport, tolls, education, housing; if and how feasible it is for the municipalities of the interior to give a 15% increase in the variable participation of the IRS; if and how feasible a tax credit for investment in the interior; if and how feasible there are specific exemptions of IMI and the reduction of TSU (unique social rate) for enterprises with workers living within, among other measures that are reflected in the document, which Mr. Ladies and gentlemen know why you've been down before. This committee would function, or will function, in the Assembly of the Republic and will be composed of all parties with parliamentary seats, the Ombudsman, who will preside, the ANMP ( National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ) and the ANAFRE ( National Association of Frequencies ). After the study done, we will see, if we see, whether this majority is so, what is possible. Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that it is not all possible and therefore we have the notion that it is necessary to see and study what is possible and to start implementing gradually. moreover, if you think that this study is of no use, the obvious conclusion is that this majority believes that people should be left to their own fate and self-protect themselves and that they are of no use to the state, because they will be dealing with themselves and the final point. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it will be a beautiful narrative of which the Portuguese will not forget. We also propose the creation of a mission unit for reconstruction that ensures the replacement of the minimum conditions for survival of populations affected by the 2017 fires, and not only those of Pedrogão. This government, in fact, insists on forgetting that, after Pedrogon, there were other fires on 15 and 16 October. It is important that this committee assess not only what happened in Pedrogon but also what happened in the fires of 15 and 16 October, giving people the conditions for the reconstruction to be done quickly. This mission unit for reconstruction will be chaired by a personality of recognized merit that looks to the country as a whole and, in particular, for all the fires that devastated the country this year, for all affected people and not only for some. This is also the motto of the third initiative that I wanted to talk about and that has to do with the extension of Law No 108 / 2017, which was published days ago, to the fires of 15 and 16 October. That is to say, we propose this enlargement in the package of initiatives we have put forward. This Law was hardly published, should have immediately originated a response from the Government, which could have said, of course, that the work was already under way in the Assembly of the Republic and that there was no time to extend this Law to the fires of 15 and 16 October; but no. The government didn't say anything, made absolute silence. The CDS therefore proposes that this Law also apply to fires of 15 and 16 October. The CDS does not forget all Portuguese and does not forget all who were affected by the tragedy of fires, from which, obviously, this Law has to apply to all without exception. That's all we're proposing, it's simple and it's got nothing more to say. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is in your hands to show whether all Portuguese are, after all, equal or if they are different and are more numbered than others. at the end of the accounts, what matters is whether for this majority more people count or count more their party interests. We're waiting for that. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u73	For an intervention, Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : On the forest fires that destroyed more than 500 000 ha this year, which took the lives of more than 100 people, who destroyed hundreds of houses and businesses, there are three conclusions that we can already draw. The first conclusion is that the State has failed, the second is that the government has not met the responsibilities and the third is that left-wing parties have not been up to the responsibilities when all PSD proposals have dropped to support fire victims. People are still waiting for help to arrive. It was precisely to respond to these people and to these companies that the PSD presented a set of fiscal proposals to minimize their losses and to support them in rebuilding their lives. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, does anyone think it reasonable for the state to charge taxes on people who have lost their homes? Because it is unacceptable, the PSD proposed the exemption from IMI for 2017 and 2018 to those who lost their home, but the left has led this proposal. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, does anyone think it reasonable that companies that have lost all their assets have to use the bank to ask for money to, instead of using that money for their recovery, make payments to the State? Because it was unacceptable, the PSD proposed the exemption of the special payment on account and the payment on account in the first half of 2018, but the left lead this proposal. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, is it acceptable that the small forest producers, who have been badly damaged, who are going to have to sell burned wood for a price much lower than that in normal conditions that would be sold and that will be deprived in the coming years of the sale of wood, which, in many cases, burned entirely, have to pay IRS on the sale of burned wood? The PSD doesn't think so, but the left has led to our proposal. In fact, as you can see, and all the left has plummeted. The left has led all the proposals submitted by the PSD to support the victims. When he rejected the PSD proposals, the left preferred to be on the side of the government rather than on the side of the victims. I conclude by saying it is sad to hear, above all, the statements made by the Socialist Party, which depicts the portrait of a country that does not exist, a country that ignores the dramatic consequences of its fires in June and October. Unfortunately, the country that the PS portrays is very different from the one that resulted from the fires that violently hit the territories and those populations in the forest fires of 2017. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u75	Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u76	Mr President, Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes, the PSD continues to deceive people by saying that there may be no exemption from IMI in respect of the buildings that have burned. I would like to ask the honourable Member if you know Article 16. that of Law No 73 / 2013, which establishes the financial regime of local authorities and inter-municipal entities, is known the possibility of granting municipal exemptions from such taxes, in particular in relation to the IMI, or if, knowing everything, wants only to continue to deceive the victims of the fires, saying that there is no possibility of awarding such exemptions? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u77	In reply, Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u78	Mr President, Mr João Oliveira, in the Budget, who deserved the favourable vote of the Communist Party, contained several exemptions from IMI.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u79	Answer the question!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u80	The Communist Party is of the view that the IMI exemptions which it intended to grant in the Budget it approved are more legitimate than the exemption of IMI to the victims of fires. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u81	Answer the question if you know the law or not! That's bad faith!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u82	I tell you more: it is not worth bleaching, it is not worth throwing responsibility for the authorities, because the only way that I had to ensure that all the victims were exempt from IMI was if the honourable Member had been with the PSD and unfortunately he was not. Stay for the story. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u83	That's ignorance and evil!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u84	For an intervention, Mrs Hortense Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Rebuilding the territory, retaining jobs and attracting people and investments — this is the debate we have to do and we are already on the ground implementing the measures that the Government has taken. The government did not wait for this debate which has been scheduled for today in the Assembly of the Republic, is already on the ground rebuilding houses, rebuilding companies and supporting the victims of these fires, as had to be done, and very well. In fact, this priority has not been established now, it was immediately assumed by the Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, when he stated the need to rebuild and not save in support of the affected populations and regions. We do not need more committees or working groups—no! — we need work on the ground, an effective job, because the country cannot wait. There is the imperative need to rebuild, because what has been destroyed in this scourge is evident. Without companies there are no jobs and there will be no people in these territories. We well know that the already existing fragility in terms of business fabric will be aggravated if it is not quickly rebuilt. Thus, measures at the level of the replacement of the activity, but also at the level of the attraction of new investments, were from time to time equationed and decided by the Government of the Socialist Party. In addition, Mrs and Mrs. Members, this State budget has adopted measures in the order of EUR 696 million. Therefore, this discussion has something redundant and even some delay. By the way, I would like to mention the pedagogical need not to constantly use fire images, with harmful effects on the fire department. In fact, there are sufficient studies on this matter to pay attention to this aspect. The question of the abandonment of the territory, of the need to take advantage of our resources and of attracting investments, of measures such as the replacement of productive capital, with EUR 100 million of a bonus credit line, protocoled with the bank with EUR 100 million, of the PT 2020, a new measure that has been taken recently due to the need to attract new investments, with an allocation of EUR 100 million for these regions affected by fires and the interior pinhal region, the EUR 77 million for SI Innovation and the EUR 33 million for SI Employment, are aspects that have to be equated, although some are already being implemented on the ground. I conclude by mentioning that there are data relating to these projects in which it is found that the companies are being recovered. Desertification, investment in the interior and resilience of people living in those territories lack short but also in the medium term and the Assembly of the Republic and the Government are doing so. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u86	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, since we do not register any more entries, I assume — let us see whether or not I assume — that we are going to move on to the last speeches on this point. [[Pause.]] Even before we move on to the last speeches on this matter, Mr Mauricio Marques has the floor, also for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since the beginning of the so-called 'forest reform' imposed by this government and by the majority that supports it, that the largest party in this Parliament, also the largest party in the opposition, has tried to reduce the damage that the implemented strategy has already had and will continue to have in the Portuguese forest and forest fires. After the 2016 fires, recognizing their inability to combat, the Government appealed to the consensus and requested contributions from the various parties and agents of the sector. When we heard the representatives of forest owners and other forest workers, we learned that their contributions were ignored in the approved diplomas. The opposition's proposals were also rejected, forgotten and often postponed roughly. The government and the majority who support it do not need contributions; everything you know and know in the rural world! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u88	After a disaster announced, with the known consequences, that we all regret, the parties of the left majority went running to the affected areas, trying to clear up their responsibilities. It is now expected that the Government and the majority who support it will be available to hear the appeals that will reach you from the most diverse sectors. It is now expected that the Government and the majority who support it will be available to accept our proposals, something that has not happened in this Parliament. After so many victims of such calamity, it is now expected that the government will stop, listen and look! Father! Stop screwing around, like those you did in the fight; stop scorning the role of the volunteer firemen; stop naming those responsible for Civil Protection only because of their partisan colors. Listen! Listen to the owners and the sector; listen to the opposition parties; listen to the autarchs; listen to those who can contribute to a man's more friendly forest; listen to those who value the forest and manage to make it profitable; listen to those who care for it and who can contribute to a more careful forest prevention. Look! Look at the victims, giving them the support that is due to them, minimizing their suffering; look at those who suffer from recent events in the skin; look at the affected areas, treating them all with justice and equity; look at the small producers, the small farmers, who have lost everything and who have neither the ability nor the will to overcome the bureaucratic barriers created in the announced supports; look at the forest owners, who have been completely abandoned to their fate; look at the promised wood reception parks; look at the minimum price of the burned wood—planned; look at the reforestation they promised to support. But look also for the immediate future, for the rains that will come, for the ashes engulfed, for the contamination of the water lines and also for the floods that will inevitably occur. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u89	For an intervention, Mr. João Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is a national reality the gravity, frequency and extent with which our country has been shaken by the intensity of the fires that occur in most of the continental territory. It is a fact that they are decades of unresolved problems and solutions postponed and others interrupted. They are unimplemented planning and management strategies and, above all, a proactive action difficult to implement, considered the flogging of our country, year after year, by applying palliative measures. The XXI Constitutional Government took over on 26 November 2015 determined to address the recurrent issue of forest reform. Despite this determination, it is in 2017 that the tragic events of June and October take on an extraordinary dimension, with a unique expression in the loss of human lives. The devastation of the interior of the country, of areas already victims of difficulties, reflecting the postponement of a necessary action by successive governments of policies structured for the reorganization and management of the forest, the loss of goods, productive capacity and jobs are reasons that we do not want and cannot be left unanswered. Despite being already a definite priority, the extreme, abnormal and atypical events that took place this year must have refocused the priorities of forest and forest fires. Populations need and expect from the public authorities responsible, constructive and structural intervention for recovery, based on a new path to forest management. Continued, consistent and persistent investment in forest reform, aiming at sustainable forest management and management, combating and preventing fires and also recovery are guidelines for government action. In July, the Independent Technical Commission was set up to carry out an independent evaluation, whose report was known in October and which was considered in the decisions to be taken. Thus, the objectives are readjusted by pursuing major priorities: repair and reconstruction; resilience of the territory and infrastructure; reform of the forest fire prevention and control model. The multiple diplomas published redirect efforts of government action, including: support and compensation for victims; reconstruction and rehabilitation of housing; support for the restoration of the productive capacity of the affected companies; incentives for attracting new business investments; extension of the deadline for compliance and reporting and tax obligations; measures for support for farmers, compensating for damage; support for animal feed or with credit lines; burning and resinous wood parking; and post-fire emergency stabilization, already with approved projects for their implementation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The dramatic reflection we have been forced to make, including the support of the Independent Technical Commission, adopted unanimously in the Assembly of the Republic, requires that actions be guided by thought and free reflection in the preparation of an orderly and sustainable future. It doesn't make sense to run an ongoing process. Many of the proposals under discussion today have lost their opportunity in view of the measures being implemented and the State budget approved two days ago. On the other hand, some proposals should be further elaborated in the specialty, taking into account the framework of the affected areas and the period considered of the storms that have reached us. We cannot, however, make it clear that the PPD and the PP in this debate discover the gap, now criticize the implementation of what they have left to do, now propose that what should have been done and do not, objectively recognising that it was not there. to the current government it is necessary to correct this course, to learn from mistakes, to build a new path and to walk it in favor of the Portuguese forest, the interior and the rural world with the people and for the good of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u91	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the final interventions. Mr Heitor Sousa, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: 2017 will remain in our common history as the worst year of destruction of nature in Portugal, including human nature. in this particular, the Pinhal de Leiria was the most serious example that almost reduced to ashes the largest public forest spot: 9508 ha of burning forest, 86% of the total area of this classified national forest. This catastrophe urgently needs to be repaired by its owner, that is, by the State. It is noted that, as the largest public national forest is concerned, the actions that the State will adopt for its defence and regeneration will be, well, under greater public scrutiny. The Block presents a set of essential proposals for the successful completion of this process. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen. Members and Members of Parliament, which refers in particular to: the immediate installation of a laboratory on-site, incorporating a specific technical commission to outline a diversified and adapted reforestation plan to the territory, taking into account climate change and sustainable management of the burning area; the maintenance of the public ownership and management of the entire area of the National Forest of Leira, claiming a considerable reinforcement of public investment, in particular in technical, material and human resources; the maximum involvement of populations, authorities and all social partners, as well as the creation of a popular commission to defend Pinhal in the Great Navy and which is configured as one of the agents of change and civic participation that it is important to promote. Doing things well in the Pinhal de Leiria, we are contributing to a more sustainable forest and with more future for all. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u93	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is the third time that, after the tragic fire of Pedrogão Grande, we discuss here the issue of forest fires. We did so in June/July to draw up and approve a set of measures, some of them in substance and others that gave immediate response to the need for support for the victims—and we said in July that we could have gone further in terms of support for the victims and the agileization of these supports—and in September this process resumed, but unfortunately, the country continued to be overcome by terrible fires that culminated in that tragic day of October 15. The State budget that was followed and which we just approved last Monday was marked by a significant set of proposals from several parties to give an effective response to the fight against forest fires and also to the needs of support felt. Nevertheless, the PSD proposed that today also be devoted to the discussion of legislative initiatives to combat fires. Nothing to be obsessive about that! Nothing to interfere with! What has caused some perplexity was the emergence of a series of legislative initiatives, almost overnight, in which we are faced with more than four dozen initiatives to discuss today, and after leaking of initiatives that little or nothing had to do with the objectives of scheduling, we ended up, however, with about three dozen initiatives, which can give the idea that either the honourable Members had never thought of these things, or that these initiatives are raining in the wetlands, or that at least we are facing those situations that there are many stops and few grapes. In any case, we believe that it is useful to remove what is important and essential in this legislative procedure and, even if we are faced with a lot of raisins and little grapes, we will, on our part, seek to extract the quality grape which may be useful to solve problems that are to be solved. from that we, PCP, will vote on the initiatives not based on who presents them, and we reject the anathema that has been put here by the interventions of the PSD and the CDS, saying that we voted on by those who present and not by content -...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u95	It happened! It happened!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u96	...but they talked too early, depending on what they're worth. And we focus on the essentials, and the essentials for us right now is to make it very clear that the support regime that has been legally established for the victims of the Great Pedrogon fire must be extended to the other fires that happened later.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u97	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u98	I will finish, Mr. President. We also understand that there must be a simplification of the support scheme that prevents people from being able to complain about the fact that they have been promised and that they have been denied the support they need. in our view, this is essential, Mr President. That was the meaning of our initiatives and we will all vote on those who present them, but on the concrete content of what is proposed. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u99	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u100	Mr President, briefly, since I have one minute, I would like to make it clear one or two fundamental ideas, a little after the last intervention. For us, the most important thing is to stress that it is time for the Government and the Socialist Party to leave the defence in this area, take their responsibilities and seriously start solving the problems of victims, businesses and those in the affected regions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u101	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u102	That is the essential question. I would also like to make it clear that we will vote consistently, as we have done in the past, all initiatives that come together with our own or some initiatives that can complement our own, regardless of the party or the political force that has presented them.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u103	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u104	There's no doubt about that. I leave only one last thought: some political forces that are now speaking could have resolved this issue in the State Budget, because they had opportunity and did not. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u105	For one last speech on this agenda item, Mr Nuno Serra, of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate today, scheduled by the PSD, had three very clear objectives. The first was to present solutions that were basically to combat those that were the recognized weaknesses of the system and so that we could be better prepared in the future for other disasters such as those that happened this summer. The second was to adjust the instruments of support for victims so that they could somehow recover the productive potential and restore economic activities in these most wooded regions. The third was to discuss the importance of a new integrated and holistic view of Portugal, its interiority and rurality. It's looking at past mistakes that improves the future. It is creating new proposals, new alternatives that we have today to improve. It is not constantly blaming the past, criticizing reactivally everything that is presented, saying that not to all proposals, to all decisions, sending the blame to third parties, that one can build something different. Unfortunately, this was the attitude that the Socialist Party and the Government, by no appearance, had in this debate. On the one hand, they have not brought any proposals that value people who still persist in the rural world and who will want to continue there after these fires. On the other hand, they have resigned from the responsibility of looking in the long term at the consequences that the economic loss of these fires will have to 10, 15 or 20 years in the lives of those who are there today and that everything has been lost. Without this valuation and without consistent public policies, we ask who can and will want to live in regions without job opportunities and where land income is not attractive. More: what is the future that the country reserves for this rural world and for all those who lived there before the fires? It is legitimate to question, Mr. Members, where are the government or PS proposals for these people. Yeah, for these people, because they're the ones who're gonna pay the IMI for the burnt houses that the left side refused to exempt.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u107	Don't say shit!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u108	These are the people who have lost everything and to whom the state has allocated €1053 to redeploy life. These are the people and the small farmers, who have been without animals, no crops, no razors, but who can now have 5000 € to redo life! Question, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, why is it legitimate to ask: is this all that the state, that this government and this majority have to give to people living in the rural world? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it may not be easy for you, but 30% of the Portuguese population lives in the rural world. These are the ones that guarantee territorial cohesion, which defend our rurality and fight for a country less inclined to the coast. These were much more worthy of the Mrs. Members of the majority, they deserved much more from the state and from the government. They deserve more attention, because the state and you have failed with them several times.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u109	You too!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u110	Mrs. Members of the majority, where are the real reforms of the government for these internal territories that have burned down? Where are the reforms that create necessary and sufficient conditions to attract more people and businesses that rehabilitate the future of these regions? Mrs. Members of the majority, you support a government and have voted on an Budget which at no time has brought a hope for the future of these regions in a real incentive to territorial cohesion. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our understanding is very different from yours. The PSD has long recognized that there must be an appreciation of low-density territories that promote their development at all levels. An example of this was the various tax incentives diplomas during the previous term, the exploitation of endogenous products, as promised, but already in this mandate, also the creation of the status of low density territories. Mrs. Members, we have presented ourselves to this debate with a constructive, innovative position in order to rethink what is the rural world, proposing, in the first phase, the creation of territorial conditions for economic activities that remain in the territories affected by fires, but also, in the second phase, in the short term, that, with the support of the State, be guaranteed attractive income for economic activities to remain in those territories. Changes in mentalities are necessary, Mr. Members, more public policies are needed for the rural world, policies based on instruments that we have at our disposal today, as are the Community frameworks, but also cross-border national measures that favour the rural world in its social, economic and environmental aspects. [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u111	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u112	Mr. President, I will conclude. Our country expects more of us, but it also expects more policies for the interior, for the people. We therefore hope that this majority who have been able to refuse everything and all, so far, will be able to hear the proposals on this side and will be able to approve them in order to give this internal Portugal a new opportunity, this rurality and, above all, those who have lost everything in these fires. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u113	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the debate on the first item on our agenda. With regard to motion for a resolution No 58 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the withdrawal of the reservation made by the Portuguese Republic of the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 13 February 1946, no time has been allocated for discussion, so we will immediately pass on to the votes. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic picture records 208 presences, to which are added 4, of the Deputies Carlos Abreu Amorim, Maria Manuela Tender and Miguel Santos, of the PSD, and Joana Mortágua, of the BE, performing 212 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes. Let us begin with the vote on vote No 430 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — In spite of the victims of the road on the occasion of World Road Victims Day, presented by the President of RA, PS and PSD. I call on Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro to proceed with the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u114	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It was celebrated last Sunday, November 19, plus a World Day in Memory of Road Victims. This is a day recognized by the United Nations and celebrated in Portugal since 2001, in honor of all those who have lost their lives early on the Portuguese roads. in the last decade the number of fatal victims has been decreasing significantly, but this should not make us forget those who continue to lose their lives on the roads. In 2016, there were 447 fatalities. These indicators also do not invite us to slow down the investment in the prevention of road-trafficking. On the contrary: it is the deepening of the prevention policy that contributes to the objective of the progressive eradication of this national scourge. To the families and friends of the victims, Members of the Assembly of the Republic express their solidarity through this tribute to those who have lost their lives on the Portuguese roads. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u115	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on vote No 431 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — In spite of the victims of the outbreak of Legionella at the Hospital de São Francisco Xavier, in Lisbon, presented by the President of RA, PS and PSD. I call on Secretary Moisés Ferreira to proceed with the reading of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It was with great dismay that the Members of the Assembly of the Republic testified to the consequences of the outbreak of Legionella at the Hospital de São Francisco Xavier, in Lisbon. There are already more than 50 cases identified by the Directorate-General for Health of Legionaries' Disease since 31 October. So far, it is known that five people died, victims of this outbreak. The Assembly of the Republic deeply regrets the success. This is a problem arising from a public health establishment, and Members of the Assembly of the Republic consider that there are added reasons for the urgent clearance of everything that has happened and for an immediate response to the causes behind the success, thus recovering the necessary confidence of the health services users. Our thoughts are, of course, with the families of the victims and with all those who have been affected by this outbreak. To the families and friends of the fatal victims, Members of the Assembly of the Republic express their deepest sorrow and solidarity. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u117	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following vote No 435/ XIII ( 3 ) shall be taken: ( a ) — Despite the death of Paulo António de Freitas Valadão, presented by the PCP, which will be read by Secretary Idália Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died in the Flowers on 22 November, sudden death victim, Paulo António de Freitas Valadão, 68 years old, teacher of basic education, veterinary doctor on the island of Flores since 1978, regional PCP member at the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Azores, 1988 to 2004, and current CDU councillor at the Municipal Chamber of Santa Cruz das Flores. Paulo Valadão contributed greatly to the political and institutional appreciation of the smaller or more isolated islands of the Azores. With its action, it has led to the debate and the political agenda the many problems resulting from isolation, lack of infrastructure or lack of services on these islands. Many of these problems came to be treated differently and better after Paulo Valadão acted as a kind of provider of the isolated islands, in direct contact with the citizens to help solve numerous problems that affected people's daily lives. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting on 27 November 2017, expresses its regret at the death of Paulo Valadão and sends condolences to his relatives and to the PCP. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u119	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Again, I would ask Secretary Idália Serrão to proceed with the reading of vote No 436/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of Pedro Rolo Duarte, presented by the President of the HR and subscribed by PS, PSD, PCP and CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It was with deep sadness that the Assembly of the Republic took knowledge of the death of Pedro Rolo Duarte. Despite its early disappearance, the name Pedro Rolo Duarte was already, long ago, a reference in Portuguese journalism. Born in Lisbon, on May 16, 1964, son of António Rolo Duarte and Maria João Duarte, journalism ran into his veins. Soon at the age of 17, he began his collaboration with the written press, which passed through the newspaper Sete, The Independent, magazineK, Newspaper, Vision, Egoist magazine and newspaper i. He also went through television and radio, another of his great passions and where he signed programs of recognized success, especially on Radio Commercial and Antenna 1. He had a modern and cosmopolitan view of journalism; he revealed a capacity for editorial innovation and writing that made school in Portuguese social communication. in the journal Seven, in the magazineK or in the week The Independent, alongside friend Miguel Esteves Cardoso, helped define the new identity of cultural and political journalism in the 1980s and 1990s. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its greatest regret to the family and friends of Pedro Rolo Duarte. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u121	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 437/ XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Despite the death of Joaquim Manuel Cabrite Neto, presented by the PSD and subscribed by PS Deputies. I would ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to proceed with his reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died Joaquim Manuel Cabrite Neto. Born September 22, 1940, in the Guide, Town Hall of Albufeira, Cabrito Neto was a figure of the Algarve summit in the post-25 April period. He performed, with great zeal, the highest functions of the state and the region. Member of the PSD, elected by the Faro circle, in various legislatures, between 1982 and 1999, Civil Governor of Faro, between 1985 and 1995, President of the Algarve Tourism Commission, Cabrita Neto was primarily known for his unwavering commitment and competent defense of his region. A civic and politically committed man, faithful to his convictions, left a particular and lasting mark on his passage as Civil Governor, when he was often ‘ sympathetically called Lord Algarve ’, for he printed on this function his tough defense of the region. A director par excellence, who wanted a lot and did a lot. His farm was recognized in 2010, the year in which he received the title of Commander of the Order of Merit. The Assembly of the Republic pays tribute to this badge figure and directs its condolences to the relatives of Joaquim Manuel Cabrito Neto. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u123	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following is vote No 438/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of José António Silva, presented by the PSD and subscribed by PS Deputies. Once again, I would like to ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco for his reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « last November 22, died at the age of 60, José António Silva. He stood out as an entrepreneur of trade and associative leader and was recognized by everyone for his exceptional human qualities. He was President of the CCP — Confederation of Trade and Services of Portugal, between 2004 and 2010, and served as President of the General Assembly of ACRAL, Trade and Services Association of the Algarve Region, between 2002 and 2009. Between 2002 and 2012, he held the Presidency of the NERA Fiscal Council, Business Association of the Algarve Region. He chaired the Alicoop Group — the Algarve Retail Cooperative and was a firm defender of the proximity trade, because of its importance in the economic dynamics and in the lives of the communities. His involvement in association has also led him to serve as President of the General Assembly of the Silves Football Club, between 1998 and 2007. He joined the Cavaco Silva Commission of Honor, of which he was a representative of the Faro district in the 2006 presidential elections. One of the projects that boosted was the Museum of the Court in Silves, in the complex of the English Factory, now closed, but which was distinguished in 2001 by the European Museum Forum, with the Micheletti Prize for Best Industrial Museum of Europe, and which came to receive 100,000 visitors per year. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its greatest regret to the family of José António Silva. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u125	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 442 / XIII ( 3. a ) — Despite the death of João Ricardo, presented by the President of the HR and subscribed by PS, PCP, PSD and CDS-PP, who will be read by Secretary António Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It was with deep regret that the Assembly of the Republic took knowledge of the death of actor João Ricardo. Born in Lisbon, on May 27, 1964, João Ricardo was a complete and versatile actor with a remarkable career in television, theatre and cinema. The expressions of sorrow that occurred during these days are well proof of the great popularity that he had with the general public and of the recognition of criticism. on television, where it began in 1989, its most recent works were in the novels Queen of Flowers and Bloodlaces. in the theater, he was a stagemaker, actor and artistic director. He collaborated with the Theatre and with the National Theatre D. Maria II, directed the Carnide Theatre. in the cinema, it was part of lists of several films by Luís Filipe Rosa, Margarida Cardoso or João Botelho. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses to the family and friends of João Ricardo his greatest grief and total solidarity. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u127	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 444 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Despite the death of Belmiro de Azevedo, presented by the President of RA and subscribed by PSD, PS and CDS-PP Members, who will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It is with deep regret that the Assembly of the Republic took knowledge of the death of Belmiro de Azevedo. Born in Marco de Canavezes, in 1938, he was licensed in Chemical Engineering by the University of Porto, with specializations in business management, obtained in prestigious university institutions in the United States of America. Belmiro de Azevedo knew how to turn Sonae into an international reference. Quickly, under its leadership, the success of the retail activity allowed the Business Group to extend its sectors of activity and its territorial horizons. Sonae is present today in the social communication, in the telecommunications and communications sector and in the specialized retail, developing, at the same time, through the foundation with the name Belmiro de Azevedo, a very remarkable social work in the fields of education, culture and solidarity. This is a fairly internationalized economic group, with a qualified presence on all continents. The State recognized this unique course, assigning Belmiro de Azevedo to Great Cross of the Order of the Child D. Henrique, in 2006. The country continues to look at Sonae as a reference for creating wealth and employment, confident that it will continue to seek the best standards of business innovation and social responsibility. Meeting in plenary session, Members of the Assembly of the Republic express to the family and friends of Belmiro de Azevedo their greatest sympathy and their total solidarity. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u129	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against the CFP and abstains from BE and the Greens.]] The following is vote No 443 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Condemnation and regret of the attack in Egypt, submitted by the President of the HR and subscribed by PS, PSD, PCP and CDS-PP. Once again, I would ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to proceed with the reading of that vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It was with deep dismay that the Assembly of the Republic took note of the occurrence last Friday, November 24, of the infamous terrorist attack carried out in the Mosque of al-Rawdah, Sinai, Egypt. Such a barbaric act is the denial of faith that its authors claim to defend. in it the lives of more than 300 people who prayed there in peace were reaped. Many more were injured, with physical and psychological sequelae as many times as difficult or impossible to overcome. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, reiterates Portugal's commitment to combating terrorism and expresses its condemnation for this attack, conveying the greatest sense of regret to the families concerned by this tragedy and its most sincere solidarity with the Egyptian authorities and people. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u131	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 440 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Condemning and weighing on the occasion of the Trans Memory Day, submitted by the NAP and subscribed by PS Members. I would ask Secretary Moisés Ferreira to proceed with the reading of this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « last November 20th was celebrated the Day of the Trans Memory. Every year, on this day, the international LGBTI community recalls and honors the lives of trans people who have been victims of hate crimes around the world. in the last 12 months, 325 trans and gender people were given as murdered. These are data collected in countries where it is possible to report and report these types of crimes as transphobic. All others will be unknown or silenced. These numbers are overwhelming and reflect the urgency of a global paradigm change from which we want Portugal to be part and be an example. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its deepest regret, expressing its deepest condolences to the families, friends and support networks of the victims, condemning the violence to which trans people are subjected daily and reinforcing their commitment to the end of this violence and the guarantee of their rights. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u133	We shall vote for the vote, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CCP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the Member of the CDS-PP Ilda Araújo Novo.]] We turn to vote No 432 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — As a tribute to the victims of the 1967 full, presented by the President of the HR, PS and PSD. I would like to ask Mrs Idália Salvador to proceed with the reading of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote is as follows: « 50 years ago, in the morning from 24 to 25 November 1967, there was an abnormally intense and concentrated level of precipitation in the Lisbon region which led to the death of more than 700 people and the eviction of more than 1000 people, as well as the submersion of hundreds of housing and infrastructure. Today there are still doubts about the true number of victims, given the active policy of censorship carried out by the dictatorship. The losses were estimated at the time at more than $3 million. The gravity of the human and material consequences of this particularly rainy morning has left the lack of housing policy, the environment and the planning of the territory, which only democracy would develop. Among the most structural causes of the tragedy are excessive soil waterproofing, as a result of the recent urbanization of the surrounding capital, the destruction of the plant cover in infiltration zones and the under-sizing of drainage systems. This tragic event, only surpassed by the 1755 earthquake or the flood of Madeira in 1803, awakened consciences and brought to civic and political intervention a new generation inconformed with the economic and social conditions in which so many citizens lived on the outskirts of Lisbon. This generation, very supported by student associivism, was, in fact, in the front of the solidarity movement which, on the ground, gave valuable help to the affected populations. Thus, 50 years later, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, honours the memory of all those who lost their lives in that catastrophe, recalling the responsibilities and omissions of the dictatorship, as well as the generosity of all the citizens who said ‘present’ in such a difficult time. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u135	Before we vote, I just want to say that there is a grate, since the date is 25 to 26 November and not 24 to 25 November. Let's vote the vote that just got read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following vote: No 433 / XIII ( 3 ) ( a ) — As a tribute to women victims of violence, presented by the President of the RA, who will be read by Mrs Idália Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u136	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « last November 25, another International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women was marked. The women's rights movement has been of the most successful social movements in recent years. Portugal was the first country to ratify the Istanbul Convention of the Council of Europe for the eradication of all forms of violence against women. The crime of domestic violence in Portugal has been a public crime since 2000, which has been unanimously approved in the Assembly of the Republic. We have in force a law known as the ‘law of domestic violence’, Law No. 112 / 2009, but this should not serve as a pretext for reducing the centrality of this civil struggle for equality. Often, laws are not enough to do justice if the condemnation of society is not manifest. In 2016, 27 681 incidents of domestic and gender violence were registered by the authorities, and in 80% of cases the victims are female. According to the most recent data from the association UMAR ( Union of Alternative Women and Response ), for 2017, a total of 41 cases of femicide, 18 consumed and 23 attempted. Giving public and political visibility to the social condemnation of this scourge is essential for its progressive eradication. To women, families and friends of victims of violence, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its deepest regret and its deepest commitment to preventing and combating this social scourge. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u137	Let's vote, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the regret that we have just adopted, we will remain silent for one minute. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We turn to vote No 434 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Greetings by 42. the anniversary of November 25, presented by the CDS-PP, which will be read by Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u138	Was this vote not a pity, too? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u139	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « In celebrating 42. the anniversary of November 25, the Assembly of the Republic marks this representative date of a historic milestone in the democratic consolidation of our country, renewing this House's commitment to the values of freedom and democracy. On 25 November 1975 Portugal consolidated in the democratic path initiated on 25 April 1974 the respect for universal principles of freedom of expression, party pluralism and free elections. On 25 November, it marked the end of the turbulent period of the democratic transition, which was agreed to designate PREC (Revolutionary Process in Course), setting the pluralistic and democratic nature of the political regime of Portuguese democracy. Without it, Portugal would hardly have traced a democratic, Atlantic and European destiny. On 25 November there were several actors, military but also civilians, to whom we jointly pay tribute on this date. in these terms, the Assembly of the Republic marks 25 November as a decisive milestone in the consolidation of Portugal as a democratic and plural country, inserted in the great spaces of international affirmation, the European, the Atlantic and the Lusophone, fulfilling respect for the democratic rules which on 25 April allowed to create. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u140	Well, I thought it was a regret vote. Or, then, protest! [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u141	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u142	What an apology!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u143	It's the apology of the stupid year after year!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u144	We turn to vote No 439 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Condemning the renewal of the European licence for the use of glyphosate submitted by BE, which will be read by Secretary Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u145	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: ‘on 26 November, the European Union revalidated the glyphosate license for further five years. Glyphosate is the main compound of the most sold herbicide on the planet. The decision was taken after the previous 15-year leave expired in June 2016 and there was an additional temporary licence of 18 months, which would end within a few weeks on 15 December. Originally, the European Commission proposed to extend the licence for another 15 years, but after several protests and opposition from Member States, the proposal was reduced to 10 years and finally to 5 years. Eighteen Member States voted in favour, nine voted against and Portugal abstained. The delay in this process reflects the protests of environmental organisations and the opposition of several States to the extension of the licence. In July this year, a European Citizens'Initiative was presented which brought together 1,320 517 signatures to ban this compound in Europe. A study by the World Health Organization considered glyphosate as probably cancer for humans. In several countries, notably Portugal, glyphosate was found in urine samples of people, but also in food, beverages and soil. According to Monsanto's internal e-mails, which were highlighted by the press, the scientific assessment of glyphosate may have been influenced by multinationals. Given the principle of caution, the use of this herbicide should be cancelled. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, condemns the revalidation of the European glyphosate license, affirms the need to protect populations and the ecosystem by adopting the precautionary principle. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u146	Let's vote, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes in favour of BE, The Greens and the PAN and the members of PS Isabel Santos, Paulo Trigo Pereira, Pedro do Carmo and Renato Sampaio and abstentions from the PS and PCP.]] We turn to vote No 441/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Condemning the approval of the renewal of the glyphosate licence by the European Union, submitted by The Greens, which will be read by Secretary Idália Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u147	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Glyphosate is a pesticides with a considerable use in Portugal, to which they have already been associated, notably by the World Health Organization, cancer effects for humans, particularly with regard to non-Hodgkin lymphoma. Glyphosate is closely related to genetically modified organisms (GMOs), as they are resistant to the herbicide concerned. More than 80% of the transgenic plants in the world have been modified to resist herbicide applications. Not by chance, Monsanto commercializes either glyphosate (under the Roundup trade mark) or the transgenic varieties. The licence for the use of glyphosate at EU level ends at the end of 2017. On 27 November, however, the renewal of the licence was approved to extend for another five years the possibility of using glyphosate, with the favourable votes of Germany, Bulgaria, Denmark, Slovenia, Slovakia, Spain, Estonia, Finland, the Netherlands, Hungary, Ireland, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, the United Kingdom, Romania, Sweden. Austria, Belgium, Cyprus, Croatia, France, Greece, Italy, Luxembourg and Malta voted against. Portugal abstained. The renewal of the glyphosate license constitutes a concession to the interests of great economic powers, such as Monsanto, to the detriment of safeguarding public health, the environment and the population. The application of the precautionary principle should have led to the responsibility to vote against the extension of the licence in question and to support alternatives that do not constitute the danger that glyphosate involves. Thus the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, condemns the approval at European Union level of the renewal of the Glyphosate license for more than five years and urges the European institutions to support mainly small and medium-sized farmers in the transition to the use of other alternative Glyphosate-free means. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u148	Let's vote, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Submitted to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and the members of PS Isabel Santos, José Manuel Carpinteira, Paulo Trigo Pereira, Pedro do Carmo, Renato Sampaio, Santinho Pacheco and the abstention of PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u149	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u150	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u151	Mr President, it is in order to inform the Bureau that I will make a statement of vote on the vote we have just voted on and vote on No 439 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u152	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall vote for an application submitted by the PS, asking the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works to be discharged, without a vote, for a period of 60 days, of Bill No 101 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — lays down the rules on compensation actions for infringement of competition law by transposing Directive 2014 / 104 / EU. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We turn to the general vote on Bill No 102 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Authorizes the Government to decriminalise and provide for the unauthorized public execution of commercially edited phonograms and videograms. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We will now vote on a request submitted by the PSD, asking the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees of Bill No 102 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) and consequently the postponement of their votes in the speciality and overall final. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] That bill therefore goes down to 1. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 624 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the Decree-Law No 349 / 98 of 11 November and Law No 153 / 2015 of 14 September 2015 in the context of property assessments ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Low to 5. the Commission. We now vote in general on Bill No. 625 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — To strengthen the regulation of the assessment of the appropriate nature of operations relating to financial instruments ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Low to 5. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 626 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — To strengthen the regulation of the codes of conduct of credit institutions ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] Low to 5. the Commission. We shall generally vote for Bill No. 627 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — To strengthen the regulation for independent investment consultants and financial intermediaries engaged in investment consulting ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Also down to 5. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 628 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — In order to strengthen the regulation of credit granting by credit institutions to qualified equity holders ( PS ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] Low to 5. the Commission. We now vote in general on Bill No. 629 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — To strengthen the regulation on contractual and periodic reporting obligations to be provided to investors in financial instruments ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Low to 5. the Commission. The general vote of Bill No 630 / XIII ( 3 ) is hereby followed. ( a ) — To strengthen the regulation of the obligations of credit institutions in the marketing of deposits and credit products ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Low to 5. the Commission. We now vote, also in general, Bill No. 631 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — To strengthen the regulation on private offers of securities ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Low to 5. the Commission. We shall generally vote for Bill No 632 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — To strengthen the regulation of the internal organisation of financial intermediaries ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Low to 5. the Commission. We now vote in general on Bill No 633 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Visa to strengthen the supervisory powers of Banco de Portugal ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Low to 5. the Commission. We proceed with the general vote on Bill No 634 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — To strengthen the regulation of remuneration for employees of financial intermediaries and credit institutions ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Low to 5. the Commission. We proceeded to the joint vote on draft resolutions No 898 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government safeguard Robinson's cortical industrial heritage ( PSD ), 1123 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government save and value the cortical industrial heritage of the Robinson Factory in Portalegre ( The Greens), 1126 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of solutions to preserve and safeguard the industrial heritage of the Robinson Factory ( PS ), 1128 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, together with the Municipal Chamber of Portalegre and the Robinson Foundation, develop a programme for the recovery, preservation and preservation of cultural heritage, including archaeological and industrial espólio, of the Sociedade Corticeira Robinson Bros, SA ( CDS-PP ), 1129 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the safeguarding, enhancement and dynamisation of the former Robinson Factory in Portalegre, and its cortical industrial heritage ( PCP ), 1136 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take urgent measures to safeguard the heritage of the Robinson Factory in Portalegre ( BE ) and 1143 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to recover, preserve and safeguard the industrial heritage of the former Robinson Factory, in Portalegre ( PAN ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We shall now vote for a PSD request that the National Defence Commission be discharged without voting, for a period of 60 days, of Bill No. 661 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Create the military emergency unit ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the PAN and the Abstaining from BE.]] It goes down to 3. the Commission. We proceed with the general vote on Bill No 662 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates a national programme to support the victims of the 2017 fires that affected the Portuguese territory for the recovery of the housing park ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] We now vote in general on Bill No. 663 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Measures to support enterprises and to resume economic activity in areas affected by forest fires ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 664 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the competitive procedure for the recruitment of the leading positions of the Integrated System of Protection and Relief Operations ( SIOPS ) ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1115/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishment of professional fire crews throughout the national territory and enhancement of volunteering ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] With regard to draft resolution No 1116 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote a new national forestry policy ( PSD ), we shall first vote paragraphs 1 and 3, at the request of the CDS-PP. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the NAP and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We are now voting on paragraphs 2 and 4 of the same motion for a resolution. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS and BE were adopted.]] With regard to draft resolution No 1120 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government amendments to support small farmers, provided for in Ordinance No 347 -A / 2017 of 13 November ( PSD ), we first vote paragraphs 1 and 3, at the request of the CDS-PP. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were rejected and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We now vote paragraphs 2, 4 and 5. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the NAP and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We then voted on draft resolution No 1122 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to combat erosion of slopes due to fires ( PSD ). [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 673 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs a commission for the elaboration of the internal tax status ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 674 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 108 / 2017 of 23 November establishing measures to support victims of forest fires between 17 and 24 June 2017, as well as urgent measures to strengthen forest fire prevention and combat ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Down to 7. the Commission. We now vote on draft resolution No 1105/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to support indigenous breeds affected by fires ( CDS-PP ). The PS and the NAP requested the separate vote of the two numbers of the project. Let us vote first paragraph 1. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall now vote on paragraph 2. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens, the PS votes and the NAP abstention.]] With regard to draft resolution No 1144/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government amendments to support farmers affected by the 2017 fires ( CDS-PP ), the PS requested that paragraph 1 be voted on first and then paragraphs 2 and 3. We shall vote on paragraph 1. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote on paragraphs 2 and 3. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS were adopted.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1145 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government redefinite the forms of participation of the Armed Forces in civil protection missions and strengthen the air means of combating fires ( CDS-PP ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the PAN and votes against the PS, the BE and the Greens.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 1146 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government redefinite the forms of participation of the Armed Forces in civil protection missions ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1147 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the payment of extra service time to forest slag teams ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1148 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish a mission unit for reconstruction ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, with votes against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1149/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of mitigating and restoration measures for fire-strengthening soils ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS.]] We now vote in general on Bill No. 668 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Extends the application of Law No 108 / 2017 of 23 November establishing measures to support the victims of forest fires between 17 and 24 June 2017, as well as urgent measures to strengthen forest fire prevention and combat all municipalities affected by forest fires in 2017 ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall continue with the vote on draft resolution No 1131 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government harmonize the processes for supporting the victims of the 2017 forest fires, extending the simplified support process up to €10,000 and ensuring support for the loss of income ( CFP ). The PS calls for point 1 and then points 2 and 3 to be voted on together. We shall vote on point 1. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote points 2 and 3. [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1132 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends support for the recovery of second dwellings in the municipalities affected by the 2017 forest fires ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote on draft resolution No 1134 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt an integrated strategy for the recovery of fire-affected areas ( BE ). The PS calls for a separate vote of point 1 and then points 2 and 3. Let us then vote on point 1. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS, BE, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against the PSD and abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]] We now vote points 2 and 3. [[Subject to vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE and PAN and abstentions from the CFP and the Greens.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1135/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to support livestock and specifically indigenous breeds affected by fires ( BE ). At the request of various parliamentary groups, the draft resolution will be voted on disaggregately. Let us first vote on point 1. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote on point 2. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]] We shall vote on point 3. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and The Greens, votes against the PS and the NAP.]] Finally, let us vote on points 4 and 5. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were adopted, votes against the PS and abstentions of the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] Let's move on, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the vote on draft resolution No 1137 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish, throughout the national territory, permanent intervention teams of professional firefighters whose service is provided 24 hours ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and PS and with votes in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 1028 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Training and raising public awareness of how to act in case of danger resulting from forest fire ( The Greens ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1100 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Self-protection programme in the event of forest fire ( The Greens ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1101/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Awareness and information campaigns, strategic and proximity, designed to prevent the ignition of forest fires resulting from negligent human actions ( The Greens ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1150 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Identification and minimization of the impacts of forest fires on natural resources such as water and soils ( The Greens ). [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 670 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amends the legal regime applicable to Portuguese firefighters in the mainland, approved by Decree-Law No 241 / 2007 of 21 June 2007 ( NAP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the PS, the BE and the PAN, and abstentions against the CFP and the Greens.]] We now vote in general on Bill No. 671 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the imposition of a competitive procedure for the award of decision-making positions which are preponderant to Civil Protection ( PAN ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the NAP and abstentions against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1108/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a specific programme to support the installation and implementation of forestry models using oaks, chestnuts and other leaves (NAP). [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now vote on motion for a resolution No 58/ XIII ( 3 ) in a comprehensive vote. ( a ) — Approves the withdrawal of the reservation made by the Portuguese Republic to the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 13 February 1946. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the NAP and with abstains from BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 1090 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of conditions for the replacement of agricultural activity in areas affected by fires ( PSD ). The CFP first requests the vote on points 1 and 2 and then on point 3. Let us begin by voting points 1 and 2. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against the PS and the CFP and the Greens abstained.]] Let us now vote on point 3. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PS and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members are in favour of paragraphs 1 to 14 of the Journal for plenary meetings of 18, 19 and 20 September and 3, 4, 11, 12, 13, 18, 19, 20, 24, 26 and 27 October 2017. [[Pause.]] There are no objections, they are deemed to be approved. Mrs. Members, Mr Secretary will report on two opinions of the Ethics Subcommittee, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u153	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Organic Unit 1 of the Braga Administrative and Prosecutor's Office, Case No. 2671 / 14.1BEBRG, the Ethics Sub-Commission of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr. Bacellar de Vasconcelos ( PS ) to present his testimony as a witness within the framework of those cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u154	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u155	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the DIAP - 15. the Lisbon Section of the Attorney-General's Office of the Republic, Case No 8213 / 17.0T9LSB, the Subcommittee on Ethics, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Pedro Passos Coelho ( PSD ) to give written testimony as a witness within the framework of those cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u156	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I also ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to announce a file.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u157	Mr. President and Mr. Members, you have entered the Bureau, and you have been admitted by Mr President, Bill No 675 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amends the law defining the objectives, priorities and guidelines of criminal policy for the biennium 2017 - 2019, considering the crime of forest fire as a crime of priority research ( BE ), which falls to 1. the Commission and draft resolutions Nos 1151 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the extension of the External Cultural Action Programme to the Portuguese Foreign Communities ( PSD ), which falls to 2. the Commission, and 1152 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the adoption of measures within the framework of the international action plan of the Afro-descendants ( BE ), which falls to 1. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-29.u158	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the next plenary session will take place on Wednesday 6 December, which will, at the first point, count on the 15th year debate with the Prime Minister, under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure, on social cohesion and reduction of inequalities, and secondly with the preparatory debate of the next European Council, under Article 4(1) ( a ). the Law of Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union Construction Process. Finally, draft resolutions Nos 1119 / XIII ( 3 ) will be considered together. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, within the framework of the European Union, integrate permanent structured cooperation in the field of security and defence ( PS ), 1121 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Permanent Structured Cooperation in Security and Defence ( PSD ), 1125 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by rejection of Portugal's entry into Permanent Structured Cooperation ( BE ), 1130 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Rejects Portugal's association with the European Permanent Structured Cooperation Mechanism ( CFP ), 1133 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government defend national interest in the context of the participation of the Portuguese State in Permanent Structured Cooperation ( CDS-PP ) and 1163 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by Portugal's non-accession to Permanent Structured Cooperation ( The Greens ). I say goodbye to all of you, remembering that, next, there will be a concert in the Senate Hall. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 36 minutes.]]
