ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our session. [[It was 10 hours and 3 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. Before we get on the agenda, Secretary Duarte Pacheco will read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau, and the following legislative initiatives have been admitted: proposals by lein.o 75 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — establishes the right to self-determination of gender identity and gender expression and the right to the protection of the sexual characteristics of each person, which falls to 1. the Commission, and 76 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter the Law on the Basics of Soil Policy, Land Planning and Urbanism, which goes down to 11. the Commission ; and draft resolution No 830 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Reverts the grant of youth hostels to private ( BE ), which falls to 12. the Commission. The Bureau also delivered an opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees concerning the waiver of the mandate in accordance with Articles 3. a is 7. the Statute of the Deputies of Mr Domingos Pereira ( PS ), elected by the electoral circle of Braga, is replaced by Mr Nuno Sá, with effect from 5 May 2017, including. The opinion is in the sense of waiver and the replacement of the Member concerned is to be admitted, since the legal requirements have been met.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, today's agenda is based on the general discussion of draft law No 511 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amended third Decree-Law No 75 / 2008 of 22 April ( Self-Government, Administration and Management of Public Establishments of Pre-school Education and Basic and Secondary Education ), as amended by Decrees-Law No 224 / 2009 of 11 September, and 137 / 2012 of 2 July ( PSD ). To present the draft law of the PSD, Mr. Amadeu Soares Alberaria has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Education is not a task of a few, but it must and must be a mission of all. We're all at school. In order to improve, in order to overcome the remaining skill deficits, in order to promote quality, effectiveness and efficiency in education we need to give more power to schools. More power cannot be synonymous with isolation but rather with openness to difference, innovation and collaboration. A school that moves the community away, that moves the parents away, that moves away the social and cultural forces, that closes itself, becomes poorer. Poorer, because it does not potentiate synergies, poorer because it is not diversified. And a socially and culturally poor school harms students. A good school is not just a physical space that is intended with good conditions, it is much more than that. A good school is an educational project of quality, designed and put into practice for a single purpose: to ensure that all acquire solid knowledge, that develop critical and collaborative capacities and that deepen attributes such as curiosity, creativity and work.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u6	We must ensure that everyone, at the end of compulsory education, is equipped with more and better qualifications. Qualifications that enhance not only the realization of personal projects, but also the increase in wealth, the improvement of wages and the elevation of living standards. We have no doubt that the quality of education is a strong indicator of the wealth that a country will produce in the long term. We have improved a lot and we must ensure that there are no setbacks. It is unquestionable that society has become more attentive and involved in education It is undeniable that there has been an expressive improvement of all the qualitative indicators of education. It is unquestionable that we have greatly decreased the rate of early school dropout by 2015. As it is unquestionable that this has, for the first time in more than 10 years, increased because of the current government. This example demonstrates how easy it is to have retrofits. For this improvement of results all contributed: students who studied and worked; teachers and technicians who taught; directors and management teams that promoted; employees who served and supported; parents, companies and municipalities who collaborated. Everybody's doing school. They're all school. And the school actually makes a difference. When analyzing the variables that contributed most to the positive evolution of Portuguese students in the 2015 PISA ( Programme for International Student Assessment ) studies, it is verified that « the school effect was of the most determinants in the positive variation of results ». That is, the process of administrative reorganization that was translated into vertical aggregations and increased coherence of educational projects throughout the student's educational course and the clear improvement of school administration were decisive elements for this evolution. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to continue to improve, we must give more power to schools, more autonomy, and always rely on the people on the ground. Since 2011 we have made our way in the growing autonomy of schools, but we need to go much further. In 2012, the pedagogical and organizational autonomy of schools was strengthened through the provision of school disciplines and the possibility of creating additional offers, together with the flexibility of the management of school loads. This is a path that must continue to be made. We need to empower schools to develop differentiated and suitable pedagogical projects for the population each school serves and fully integrated into the local community. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u7	More and more, we need to have increased freedom and autonomy so that schools, in partnership with the community where they are inserted, find better and more effective solutions, to promote the quality of what is learned and taught. PSD believes in schools. The PSD refuses to return to last century's management and administration models, under false pretexts of democracy. PSD refuses to move away from school communities. The PSD refuses what some want: to make schools into small union and partisan action cells. [[PSD applause.]] The PSD states that the current model, implemented by a socialist government and adjusted by a PSD/CDS government, is good and has yielded good results. But, of course, we can always improve. Moreover, that is what we did in 2012. Therefore, the proposed bill today and under discussion is not a new regime, it is a new improvement. What we propose is to improve the current school management and administration regime, deepening the instruments of autonomy, densifying the educational project, strengthening the competences of its organs, promoting the greater involvement of the educational community and strengthening transparency. in this purpose, we attributed more power to schools in the decision, for example, of the formation of classes and in curriculum development; we strengthened leadership through transparency and co-responsibility of various bodies; we give greater conditions so that the members of the management and coordinators can develop their work; we further credible parent associations. They are measures in the right direction. They are answers to the challenges imposed by the practice and experience of schools. PSD does not want to return to the last century. The PSD wants progress, steps in the right direction and is open to which improvements can be introduced, in the specialty. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u8	They have signed up to request clarification from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and to request clarification from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Deputies Porfirio Silva, of the PS, Joana Mortágua, of the BE, Ilda Araújo Novo, of the CDS-PP, and Ana Virginia Pereira, of the PCP. In the meantime, Mr Amadeu Soares Alberbergaria informed the Bureau that he would reply together to the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. You have the floor, therefore, to ask for clarification, Mr Porfirio Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u9	Mr President, Mr Amadeu Soares Alberdaria, I wanted to focus on the bill that the PSD presents to us, but I cannot fail to take an initial consideration of the method of historical interpretation or reinterpretation that the PSD adopted not only in the field of education but also in others. When it comes to PISA results, the PSD takes for the last four-year government the results of 20 years in the country, even though the 2015 PISA sample contains only a small minority of students covered by the most controversial measures of the Crato Ministry. But when it comes to drop out of school, the PSD already claims that long-term results are achieved in a few months. Incoherence? No, it is not incoherence; it is consistency with the new method of historical reinterpretation of the PSD. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is the same consistency as Mr. Passos Coelho, when in May 2016, when it seemed that things were going wrong last year, he said that the fault of job destruction was this government, but now in April 2017, when it is seen that a lot of jobs are being created and unemployment is decreasing, it has already changed its interpretation and says that the reduction in unemployment is the merit of the previous government. Therefore, this PSD method, which is that data serves everything, just putting them « from legs to air » when it does the PSD, is a method that we start to get used to, but that is a bad method, because it is only a nationalized version of the post-truth method, which we must refuse. But, Mr. Amadeu Soares Alberaria, in fact, we must focus primarily on the bill that the PSD brings us here. In our view, the bill is a set of loose ideas, without consistency and without a direction. however, I would like to ask you a few questions, because it may be that of your answers we can visualize a path that, from what is written, does not come to mind. Mr. Deputies, the PSD bill does not have a single idea about the role of the pedagogical council. Is that by any chance? Is it a matter you don't care? On the general advice, the PSD bill has several ideas, all of them, unfortunately, in our view, no thought. On the one hand, the PSD proposes that the general council deal with management competences, assuming management competences. It then proposes that the general council invade the domain of pedagogical competences, entering into antagonisms with the pedagogical council. It also proposes the PSD that the General Council assume competences that, in certain cases, it cannot assume, for example, in the case of schools that have inter-administrative contracts and in which, therefore, the training of non-teaching staff does not fall within the competence of the school but rather the municipality, resulting in legislation implemented by the PSD. Are they going to propose the repeal of this legislation, or is it simply an inconsistencies they did not realize when they presented the bill? Another question, Mr. Deputies, has to do with the following: in the PSD bill there is not a single word about the participation of students in school life. That's why PSD has nothing to say about it? As for parents and education officials, clearly the PSD believes that, of all the bodies that participate in school life, this is the most incompetent. As far as the appointment of representatives in the general council of all other elements of the educational community is concerned, it is necessary to make a large report, which should be in the internal rules and not in the law, in order to ensure that parents do not make any disparity in the designation of their representatives in the general council. Well, this seems wrong to us. Parents are parents, but they do not need that paternalism, Mr. As for the educational project, the PSD confuses its medium-term strategic nature, at three years, and wants it to contain provisions that need to vary every year.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u10	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u11	I shall conclude, Mr. President. Mr Amadeu Alberbergaria, we are pleased to see that the PSD is concerned about these issues and therefore we greet you. But the bill seems to us a little incoherent, a little torn apart. Perhaps the honourable Member's answers help us to realize that there is something more in the bill than what is written there. We would be very pleased if we could check this out. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u12	To request clarification, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u13	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Amadeu Alberbergaria, we share some of the perplexities that have already been demonstrated here, but we also add some criticisms to the project that the PSD now presents. The PSD makes a project of topical changes to the current model of school management, in whose explanatory statement refers to the word 'autonomy' 10 times and the word 'democracy' zero times, never! The word 'democracy' is the great absence of the explanatory statement and all the text of the project presented by the PSD. In fact, democracy is seen in the PSD project as a false pretext to subject the school to centralism and bureaucracy. But, although often speaking in autonomy, there is no proposal from the PSD to strengthen the autonomy of schools in the changes it now presents to the management model, because there is nothing in the changes to the management model proposed by the PSD that diminish the dimension of centralist, administrative bureaucracy, often implemented by computer platforms, of which schools complain every day, that directors and teachers complain every day. But in that regard, the PSD has nothing to say. The centralization of powers made by mega-groupings creates again centralism and bureaucracy—of which the directors and teachers complain—but the PSD has nothing to say about these organizational structures or superstructures, about centralization of power within the school and, above all, about centralization of the power of the director's figure. The PSD says it has a project that strengthens the autonomy of schools, but it was the changes of the PSD, in particular the PSD vision on the municipalization of schools, which, for example, allowed a councillor to have a office within the school of his council. Now, if the PSD considers that the autonomy of schools consists of having a office within the school, then we have already learned what the PSD understands by autonomy. But this project has, in itself, various problems. This project conflicts and gives again a number of competences between the general council, assigning to it competences of pedagogical charities and which, therefore, must be taken by the pedagogical council—without solving the problem of emptying the pedagogical council—, creating and even assigning these competences simultaneously to the director and the pedagogical council, with the supervision of the general council, which does not have strategic capacity to solve these competencies. The PSD project clarifys what has been reported as errors and irregularities in the way in which education officers are elected to the general council, which are even calling into question the retraining of some directors. However, about the participation of education officials, students, employees and teachers in school management, the PSD has nothing to say. The only merit of this project is to recognize that the director's unipersonal election is a mistake. But the way the PSD manages to fix this is, itself, a mistake, because what the PSD does is to say that the director has to apply for a list, but if he doesn't like the list, he can fire it the next day. So, basically, this project does not solve any problems. And what would you like to ask Mr Amadeu Alberbergaria: what is the purpose of this project? Is it not to change everything so that everything remains in it, so as to maintain the survival of a management model in which democracy lies at the door? PSD knows that more days, less days, this management model will be changed and that what schools want is democracy. And that's what the PSD thinks there shouldn't be inside the school. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u14	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Ilda Araújo Novo.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u15	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Amadeu Alberbergaria, speaking of the quality of teaching, good practice and results, let us remind ourselves that the mandatory assessment tests of 2 students have already begun. the year of basic education. The area of Physical-Motor and Artistic Expressions is, for the first time, the object of national measurement. The performance of these tests involved the planning of the processes of application, classification and mobilization of material and human resources. However, the truth is that there are no good hurdles about their true objectives, whether their relevance or the reliability of the results. These are the words of Mr. Secretary of State, who I quote: «We have received impressions at the meetings we have made, including with professors of Physical Education, that go exactly in the sense that this specific area of the curriculum has not been very worked. But so far they've been impressions. From now on we will have systematic data on what exists. One fact rather than an impression: schools did not have the material resources needed to organize the evidence. It doesn't matter now how this failure has been overcome. Yes, it is important to question how it is possible to submit students to measurement tests in these areas when it appears that they have not been given adequate and sufficient education. Now, the CDS unequivocally defends students' evaluation. But being the evaluation an incentive to best practices and best results, as we all want, it is not possible for us that these evidences will allow us to verify practices or even not the performance of the curriculum Nevertheless, the Secretary of State says that the evidence will take a picture of the system and allow us to see whether or not the student has the conditions to perform the tasks and train them. However, the assessment evidence should contribute to the regulation of education by providing those responsible for education policies and the administration of relevant information schools to enable qualified information to support decision-making. It happened that the measurement tests had pre-supplied script: the students knew the statement five days before it was carried out. So how is it possible to draw systematic conclusions? from that question to ask what is the true objective underlying these tests. Mr. Secretary of State said that the results could suggest the adoption of new measures and guidelines. But he also said on 24 July 2015 : « It is fallacious to think that a culture of exams promotes better learning, because exams only give rise to a very precise type of problem resolution. After all, what are we in? Will there be a strengthening of the curriculum component of basic education based on the recommendations of this evaluation simulation? To solve what problems? Or who? Changing the pace, and briefly, because time is scarce, Mr President, autonomy does not constitute nor should it constitute an abstract principle. It must be an instrumental value, which aims at better governance of schools, their public service and, consequently, greater accountability of their leaders. Any proposals to amend the legal regime of the autonomy and management of schools must be clear, precise and relevant. I pay attention to the content of the bill presented here today, and continue to favour the practice of positive policy, our motto, we intend to emphasize the introduction of competences that allow, in relation to some areas and organs, self-organization in schools. It has our agreement and deserves even our praise. It is worth noting, however, that a number of other proposals in the joint must be clarified, improved and even amended, so that we can also agree with their terms. In view of this, we have already shown ourselves available to cooperate. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u16	To conclude this round of requests for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Amadeu Alberbergaria, the honourable Member has just brought us an idyllic view of the school, which only exists in your head and which does not resist a confrontation with reality, a reality which is full of problems, which you have also left and which have even deepened some already existing ones.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u18	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u19	I also wanted to say that I really enjoyed seeing your anti-union position, which also says a lot about your positions on trade unionism.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u20	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u21	With regard to what is currently under discussion, the issues related to the management model that bring us here do not alter what was provided for in Decree-Law No 75 / 2008 of the responsibility of the PS, and that Decree-Law No 137 / 2012, already of the authorship of the PSD and the CDS, has deepened and with which they are committed. This is a model of management that reduced to zero, which impoverished the democracy that existed in the schools of the post-25 April; a model of management that, far from being for everyone, as Mr Deputy said, furnished students, removes non-teaching staff and where parents are absent, education officers, and limits the participation of teachers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u22	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u23	Is this the model that the PSD advocates to promote the quality of education and provide true equal opportunities? How, Mr. Deputies? The management of schools that the PSD defends is marked by the lack of democracy, imposed by a management regime concentrated on one individual, the director, and which has numerous harmful consequences in the educational community. Of course, for students, because, on the one hand, it prevents them from participating in school life and, on the other hand, from denying them the example of democracy in the management and day-to-day life of school. How can this model of school teach democracy to students, honourable Member? with regard to the school environment, this management regime has shown to be a source of conflict and confrontation between different actors of the educational community, by encouraging competition, rather than collaboration between teachers, causing insecurity, fear, wear and deterioration of peer relationships. There is also the fact that teachers hardly have a word to say at school. What does the PSD have to say to the devaluation that is done of the role of these professionals?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u24	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u25	And to say of the merely advisory functions of the pedagogical council, sub-alternized and increasingly emptied of its competences, no longer having the power to decide, at the same time as the director sees its powers strengthened and concentrated, particularly in areas such as the management of the pedagogical, cultural, administrative, financial and heritage areas. The PSD today brings the debate an initiative on the management of schools that does not change the fundamental issues, such as the impoverishment of the democratic life of the school, clearly showing that they are relevant to the model of unipersonal management and concentration of power contrary to the values of participation and democracy. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u26	To reply, Mr Amadeu Soares Albergaria has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Porfirio Silva and Mrs Joana Mortágua, Mrs Ilda Araújo Novo and Mrs Virgínia Pereira for the questions they asked me. I am grateful for the questions put, but I can only disagree, in global terms, with what they have just mentioned. In fact, we have many differences: it is the difference between those who believe in people and their institutions and those who do not believe; it is the difference between those who believe in private initiative and those who do not believe; it is the difference between those who believe in a public service of education and those who speak in a national service of education thought, imposed and directed from 5 October, headquarters of the Ministry of Education. Mrs. Members, I must insist on this question: the current model is democratic and has achieved positive results for the Portuguese education system. Actually, the ladies. Members want to return to the model of the last century, a model which is therefore outdated, dated and cannot have a future. [[PCP protests.]] What are you guys doing? Members want, in fact, to be very clear to those who read, for example, the bill presented by the Communist Party: they want to keep their parents out of school life, they want to remove local associations, they want to move away from companies, they want to move away—as was also clear in the debate—the authorities.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u28	All right! [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u29	And I say more: Mr. Members want to keep the directors away, whom they accuse of being Napoleonic leaders. The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, we want to reverse what has worked out well, Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira. [[PCP laughter.]] in fact, and under the cover of such democracy, for you there is a hindrance here. It is, in fact, an obstacle for those who want to transform schools into union and partisan action cells. This model of giving more power to schools is a real hindrance. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u30	Mrs. Members, please note that during the year and a half, they have not been able to agree in this Parliament on the number of students per class. Well, this proposal has the solution to your problem: let the school organs decide. Mr Porfirio Silva, we agree that this is a major step forward in the autonomy of schools. But what is your fear? That teachers don't want the success of their students? That parents are not zealous for their children’s educational success? Do the school organs want bad results for their own school? Do the local elected members, Mrs. Joana Mortágua, not fight for your municipality to have the best of educational projects for the competitiveness of your territory? [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u31	If you don't believe me, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, if they do not trust people and their ability to build a community, how can they want to represent them well in this Parliament? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u32	The current regime was created by the Socialist Party and was improved by the Social Democratic Party and the CDS. What we propose here is another improvement that aims at a great goal: to give more power to schools. The Socialist Party accompanies us in this project, allows us to go down to the specialty, makes contributions to improve it — let us clarify what needs to be clarified — or, on the contrary, rejects its recent past, continues to submit itself to the radical agenda of the Left Block and the PCP, which has already made its first major damage by increasing early school dropout after more than 10 years of continuous descent? Yes, it is the work of all who have already been destroyed by the radical left-wing agenda. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] Mr Porfirio Silva, I believe that you and your colleagues can reflect well during this debate because the first qualitative result is already there: that of submission to the Left Block and the CFP, which is very negative and should make you think. They reflect and reflect well. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u33	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating today the system of autonomy and management of schools. It is a debate that the Socialist Party considers important, in which we want to highlight the project Autonomy and Flexibility, which is being developed by the Ministry of Education for autonomy to be built in that plan that is essential to the mission of the school, which is the curriculum plan. The 195 public and private schools throughout the country that moved to Coimbra last Tuesday to start a dialogue with the Ministry of Education about their involvement as schools in the Autonomy and Flexibility project did - voluntarily. They did so because this project develops with a strategy of gradualism and mobilization, never in an imposition strategy. They did so voluntarily because this project develops in a framework of stability, flexibility of management without changes in the programmes and without implications for the adoption of new manuals. Because this project aims to address problems identified by the educational community, such as the extension of programs, the scarce horizontality of the curriculum, the lack of freedom of schools to apply answers that they know are appropriate to their reality in terms of pedagogical differentiation, recovery and consolidation of learning, work in pedagogical teams, development of high-level competences, promotion of success, mobilization of students. They did so voluntarily because they understood that the possibility of managing up to 25% of the weekly hourly load at school level, with extended autonomy in the organization of times, methodologies and workplaces, is a powerful tool. Because they understood that confidence in schools, trust in teachers is the point of support that allows us to lift the world if Archimedes allows me the freedom of expression. in the field of open possibilities we gave just a few examples: the creation of curricular projects involving several disciplines; the alternance, throughout the school year, of periods of disciplinary functioning with collaborative multidisciplinary periods of operation; the development of practical or experimental work using temporary reconfiguration of classes or the creation of disciplines for the development of local curriculum components with interdisciplinary contribution. It should be stressed that flexibility will also be mobilized at the service of inclusion, allowing the definition of curriculum classes that meet the different educational needs of each student. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the scope of our debate today also includes the management of schools. We must say with all clarity that democracy can always improve itself and, therefore, the Socialist Party agrees that the democratity of the institutional life of our schools and groupings can be improved. And we are available for this work, but never on the assumption, wrong, that it is antidemocratic today the functioning of our schools. In time, the Socialist Party will present its management proposals, and they will aim, inter alia, at strengthening the pedagogical council, improving the method of recruitment of middle management positions, combining better professionalism and representation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] at the level of management, the unipersonal direction should not continue to be the only possible model, because, being sure that the strong leaders make the schools strong, as many directors show every day, it is not less certain that collegiality can be a friend of the best leaders. And for the General Council, it should be possible to improve the conditions for fulfilling its own mission, which is strategic orientation, based on the dynamic link between the school community and the educational community, in a logic of territorial anchorage of the school as endogenous development agent, but not in a logic of political-party interference. as a whole, the improvements to be introduced in the management of schools and groupings should strengthen the participation of all educational agents and deepen the educational experience as a democratic experience. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is from these own values that the Socialist Party analyzes the project that the PSD presents today the debate. We do so in the spirit of those who always seek something useful in the proposals of other legitimate representatives of the people. But, frankly, the project under consideration summarizes a relatively inconsistent set of loose ideas. The PSD project does not have a single structured idea about the pedagogical council, which is worthwhile, because the pedagogical council has, and must have, an essential role in fulfilling the educational mission of the school. On the general board, the PSD proposals imply an overrun with the powers of the management, taking on the general board management competences, including the allocation or not of a legal component to the elements of the management, and imply an invasion of the competences of the pedagogical council, in particular in the organisation of classes and in the training of teaching staff. in the PSD proposal there is not one word about the participation of students in school life. As for parents and teachers, in the PSD project they are treated as if they, compared to other vectors of the educational community, were especially incompetent to organize their participation in school life, specifically as regards the choice of their representatives in the General Council. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As for the educational project, a central instrument in the construction of the autonomy of schools, the PSD proposal reveals a fundamental misunderstanding of its nature and role, attempting to incorporate in this medium-term strategic document subjects that must be adjusted annually, such as the organization of classes or the organization of teaching resources. in its whole, this PSD project lacks an guiding idea. In terms of management, it does not reflect any global and coherent approach; in terms of promoting the autonomy of schools, it is already far behind reality, quite behind the path that schools and the government are doing with the Autonomy and Flexibility project. Once again, in matters of autonomy, for not wanting to see what is being done, the PSD, of both one: either lost the train, or caught a train walking back. in this sense, the Socialist Party does not go. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u35	Mr Porfirio Silva, the Bureau records the registration of three Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, request clarification. Since you have informed the Bureau that you want to answer together, you have the floor from now on to ask for clarification, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u36	Mr President, Mr Porfirio Silva, I have been left unaware of the train the PS will want to catch, because FenPROF, through the benches that give you voice here in the Assembly, has been one of the main forces for the reversal of the current model. I would like to see if the PS today will maintain the strength with which an former PS Minister of Education has unveiled the situation, saying: "What matters is to make public interest prevail. in the case of trade unions, although they are quite different between themselves, they have sought to create a certain illusion that their interests are the interests of public school and I think that the interests of trade unions are almost never the interests of public school." This was said by Minister Maria de Lurdes Rodrigues. So, I ask: in terms of the model of democratic school management, what is the train that the PS will catch? Is it the train to defend the public school or is it the train to defend the unions? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u37	Mr Pedro Alves has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Every time there is a debate on education in this House, I always look forward to seeing the Socialist Party take off ideologically from their coalition comrades. In fact, I always believe that this is the opportunity for the Socialist Party to effectively assume the leadership of the coalition and to pass on to dictate the rules of the risky game in which it placed the Portuguese. But no! Unfortunately, time is passing and what is being attended is always more of the same, that is, to a socialist Party socially embarrassed, to a Socialist Party politically cantoned and to a Socialist Party ideologically retarded with the Communist Party and the Left Block. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u39	You don't want to talk about education!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u40	in reality, this was what you saw here today, once again. Nothing new brought us the Socialist Party on education. We already know that they are against the rigour of external evaluation and have replaced an alternative and facilitating model that is no more than a fraud of this government. We already know that they are against strengthening the teaching of structured areas of reasoning and expression, such as Mathematics and Portuguese, because they do not find the word "requirement" in the teaching model they recommend. But we also know that they are against all measures that combat early school dropout because, for the same reason, they have already been awarded in just one year of governance with the increase in school dropout. Mr Porfirio Silva, we now have to know what the Socialist Party thinks about the subject we brought up today. Which management model do you want for public school? Do you want to continue to be the cape who covers the career of Prof. Mário Nogueira and the ideological leadership and thus choose to take the train from the educational retreat?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u41	You're a thug!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u42	Or, on the other hand, does the Socialist Party prefer to make a train trip with us on the path of rigor, demand, autonomy, quality and good results, towards the future, towards school success and towards educational success? Mr. Deputies, tell us what the Socialist Party wants. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u43	Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u44	Mr President, Mr Porfirio Silva, there is no learning of democracy as a model of management in which students of the same participation are taken away and we cannot also have an inclusive school when these same students are excluded from this participation of the school's own democracy. Therefore, we cannot today have a vision of the public school of citizen participation without including the students who are the center of their existence and who must also be at the centre of the democratic debate of the school. from the PSD, we already know its position, we already know that this debate comes to defend the image of the director and nothing more than that, making unobstructed proposals, which, by the way, neither the CDS accompanies entirely. Therefore, they are isolated in a remote, ancient position — that of the last century — which is the image of the all-powerful director. As for the PS, we have heard some intentions here, including the intention to include students in the same management and in the same democratic discussion of the school, and that is precisely what I would like to ask Mr Porfirio Silva. Mr President, how can we cover the students in this discussion? How can we make school more democratic? How can we make the model of management more inclusive, where no one stays outside and where we can ensure, once and for all, that students, being the center of school existence, also begin to be one of the centers of discussion and democratic participation? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u45	To reply, Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u46	Mr President, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa and Mrs. Mr Pedro Alves and Mr Luís Monteiro, thank you for the questions you have raised. Mrs. Ana Rita Bessa, you're wrong. This is not the parliamentary bench of the FENPROF (National Federation of Teachers), it is the parliamentary bench of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u47	But it seems!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u48	As you know, the Socialist Party is not always in agreement with the unions, which is not a problem for us, because, contrary to some, we do not value the role of the social partners accordingly we agree or disagree with them, we always value rather than their position, which is a democratically hypocritical position and which we do not accept. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Pedro Alves.]] Mr. Pedro Alves, we are not surprised when he uses a certain type of inappropriate language for a democratic debate in a democratic Parliament. When Mr. Pedro Alves and others take these attitudes, I remember a phrase the people said on my land: "The more empty the car goes, the more noise he makes". That is what characterizes your attitude. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u49	What is the Socialist Party's position?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u50	Mr. Pedro Alves, if you want to hear the answer, listen, don't make any noise. [[PSD protests.]] Mr. Pedro Alves, we realize very well that you want to talk about everything less about the bill that the PSD presented. Your project, really, does not deserve even considerations from the bench itself that you proposed.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u51	Say what is the Socialist Party's position!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u52	Mr. Luís Monteiro, today we have announced a set of principles that will govern our concrete proposals, but, as you know, and we have already said publicly, we are listening, we are talking to various partners. We have no prejudice, we assume all our past. The PS has a past that is honored in the construction of public school, democratic school, and we assume this responsibility. Therefore, it is from this base that we assume that we want to improve, because we always want to improve. And we will certainly not do as the PSD, who came here asking for others' proposals but made that no more proposals could appear in the debate. The PSD is so untrustworthy about its proposal that it does not let any other parliamentary group present proposals in this debate. It's a work, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u53	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our first word is addressed to the PSD for bringing this issue to plenary. It is a central and structuring matter of the life of schools. We accompany the PSD in the recognition of the management model as one of the determinants of school results. We have reservations about some concrete proposals, but we are fully available to debate them and to deepen them in committee.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u55	There goes the PAF!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u56	As the current model was assumed to be disruptive when it came into force, almost 10 years ago, it is justified, first of all, to revisit the changes brought and evaluate its implementation, as, moreover, it should happen with all public education policies, in respect of the work of schools, by pragmatic weighting of what can and should be improved and by containment of the legislative urgency, motivated more often by ideological prejudices and not by concepts collected on the ground.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u57	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u58	So what brought us the 2008 model? On the one hand, it brought the replacement of the executive board by a director. In other words, it passed from a school management agency to a specific person, who faces a project for the school, who is elected by the community to carry it out and who from it must account. On the other hand, it brought an increase in decision-making power for teachers and employees and the granting of effective power to new protagonists—the authority, the parents and representatives of the local community— opening the school to a management and scrutiny attended by the entire community. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, even considering some weaknesses, this model is the most democratic we have had, because it involves everyone and not just those inside. Of course, the quality of democracy living in schools, such as that living in the country, depends in much on the training, participation and accountability of all elements of the educational community. I am witnessing this because, during the first three years of this management model, I accompanied 95 schools throughout the country, in a leadership transformation project, where I learned that, even with a good law, the school community—directors, teachers, employees, students and other elements—needs time, experience and support to feel the results. Time and experience invested which justify that any proposals for improvement should result from a comprehensive assessment that may be made by the body to whom "is to issue opinions, opinions and recommendations on all matters relating to education", i.e. the National Education Council. Time and experience that schools have invested and that we have a duty not to waste, either by ideological requirements of the PCP and the Bloc, or by any negotiation of the government and the PS, because they have neither budget nor courage for the decisions they really should be making.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u60	The first measure of the current PS government was to reverse the national assessment of the disciplines of Portuguese and Mathematics at the end of the cycles instituted by the PS government, this same socialist government that also established the current model of school management in 2008. We await, with expectation — I must say that it is low — the decision of the Socialist Party, i.e., will be followed in good time by the PSD and CDS in deepening this model or, once again, will give in to the Bloc and the PCP. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u61	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, the Bureau registered, to request clarifications from Mrs Maria Augusta Santos, PS. You have the floor, Mrs Maria Augusta Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u62	Mr President, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, what the public school expects of all of us is so much that we contribute to its permanent dignity and provide it with the appropriate means to scrupulously carry out its designs, without ambiguities, without contradictions, without subterfuge. That is how we must build all legislative initiatives. By analyzing the bill presented by the PSD, we verified exactly what should not happen. It is ambiguous, it is contradictory and it has subterfuges, but we do not see what the PSD proposes with regard to the definition of the criteria for organizing classes, which are relevant to the success of school and education. I should like to know, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, since she expressed the opinion of following up on the PSD bill, what she understands about the formation of classes and what competences should be assigned specifically to the different governing bodies, administration and management of schools, in particular to the general council, the director and the pedagogical board. According to the PSD draft law, the general council should decide on « the organisational and compositional criteria of the classes », the director should « establish the criteria for the formation of classes » and the pedagogical council should « define the general criteria for the formation of classes ». After all, where are we? in the perspective of PSD and CDS-PP, who effectively has competence in this matter? Since the formation of classes of subjects of a pedagogical nature does not mean why it confers on the general council competences to decide on the criteria for organizing classes presented in the framework of the educational project. It is, at least, redundant and redundancy are causing confusion and cannot occur. Let's not forget, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who from the formation of classes depend on the hours and the hiring of teachers and, consequently, the success of school and education of each school year. For anomalous start-ups of school years, it is enough for those who lived with the PSD/CDS government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u63	In reply, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u64	Mr President, Mrs Maria Augusta Santos, I would say that the formation of classes is a matter on which I would advise some caution to the PS. You have your irony to have been the PS bringing you here this way. It is not forgotten that it was the PS Government that entered in its Government Programme that would reduce the number of students per class and it was Parliament that presented a number of initiatives on this subject, which resulted in hearings, which resulted basically in nothing, because there are not even conclusions from this working group. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u65	After the government has put forward a proposal that, in terms of reducing the number of students by class, does not grant the directors anything, but does it do some minimalist floreates that will not change anything in the specific life of schools, would it not be more serious and braver than the PS to define its position of principle in relation to the PSD proposal? Do you agree or not that it is to the school management bodies that freedom should be granted for the formation of classes? If you agree, you have only one more reason to discuss this matter in the field of expertise and not lead this initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u66	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u67	If this is the way here, although it can be improved, it is only enough to vote in favour and make it possible for the PSD initiative to finally end this debate in this Parliament. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u68	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Education is a right that cannot be disbanded from democracy in its multiple aspects and from the constitutionally consecrated advances that resulted from the April Revolution, including the recognition of the right to democratic participation in school management. This principle, which is developed in the Basic Law of the Education System, determines that, in each institution or group of educational and educational establishments, direction and management are guided by principles of democratity and participation of all those involved in the educational process, determines that, in the direction and management of educational and educational institutions, pedagogical and scientific criteria should prevail on administrative criteria and that the direction of each institution or group of basic and secondary institutions is ensured by their own bodies, for which representatives of teachers, students and non-teachers are democratically elected. The truth is that since 1991 the political options of successive governments have been very far from this perspective, translating attacks on the principles of collegiality and the election of the bodies of management of educational establishments and their autonomy, in complete disregard of the Basic Law of the Educational System. Parties that have defended the current management model argue mainly about propagated and supposed advantages, such as strengthening the autonomy of schools or creating strong leadership. Nothing more false! How is it that the existence of a director, unelected unelected post, in which the full responsibility of the school management rests... How does the existence of a director, unelected unelected post, in which the full responsibility of the school management, directly controlled by the Ministry, promoting the governmentization of schools, reinforce autonomy? How can they even claim the existence of strong leadership without the existence of a true democratic government of schools? Strong leaderships fueled by the force of emptying participation and democratic management tend to be primarily authoritarian leaders. And this has proved to be on a day - to - day school basis. What's the matter, ladies and gentlemen? Ladies and gentlemen, the initiative that the PSD here brings us today is only, and only, to fine-tune the non-democratic management of schools. It is a project that does not attack the essential that is precisely the removal of the school community from decision-making levels and the end of the promotion of mistrust towards the school community in the school government. It does not allow the universal vote of the management body to be elected. It does not even allow the election of department or establishment coordinators, who are, in one case, chosen from a group of three indicated by the director and, in the second case, appointed; it hierarchically evaluates the participation of some bodies of the school community to the detriment of others. Just school, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it must be a place of conjugation and not a stage of conflict, such as those that these options promote. No, it is not cosmetically that things are solved, but rather with a new school management regime based on the principles of eligibility, collegiality and which promotes the participation of all in appropriate levels of intervention. If the school is a learning space, it is also an area of civic and democratic participation. The CFP has long advocated the adoption of a law on democratic management of school establishments that respects the principles, objectives and values enshrined in the Constitution and the Basic Law of the Education System. We have presented our own bill on democratic leadership and management in December, promoting, since then, a wide debate and auscultation on our proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u70	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u71	We already have the opinion and sensitivity of many: teachers, non-teachers, parents and even school directors, who have expressed the importance of intervention in this matter. Our bill contains some key options and distinctive features that we have come to highlight. It foresees the election of all members of the school management and management bodies; reconciles the necessary community intervention, including parents and authorities, with the indispensable autonomy of the school; respects the importance of the participation of students and parents in school life, providing for it in a strategic management body and creating mechanisms for the permanent auscultation of their opinions; reinforces the importance of the pedagogical council, making it an organ with decision-making powers, truly assigning it to the pedagogical and educational direction; ensures the necessary separation and complementarity between management and management. By complying with the Basic Law of the Education System, it creates new means of participation in the definition of educational policy at the regional level through regional education councils; it establishes forms of compensation for holders of the main positions in democratic management and management bodies and educational guidance structures. This is above all a bill aimed at valuing public school, promoting school success and making the governing and management bodies real elements of pedagogical modernization and autonomy of the school for the realization of its own educational project. I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, leaving a question: public school is required to be democratic, because it is in this culture that inclusion really develops. How can a school that is not truly democratic, fully democratic, in its organization and in its functioning, educate for democracy? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u72	Mr. Germana Rocha, of the Social Democratic Party, was registered to request clarifications. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear in this debate that what the CFP really wants, with regard to the model of school management, is certainly a clear and unacceptable backwardness. It is another step back that we have been accustomed to and once again in a fundamental and decisive matter in the dynamics of the educational projects of each of our schools. What the Communist Party here today has shown was a clear lack of trust in schools and in the main actors of the educational community, as in fact happens in other matters, which is, in fact, the case of decentralization of competences in the field of education. Also in this matter VV. They are suspicious of the competence, capacity and exemption of our authors in their collaboration in the context of various processes in the area of education, with recognised efficiency and effectiveness gains resulting from the proximity of schools and their populations. I should like to ask the honourable Member what motivates the Communist Party to express this enormous mistrust with regard to the process of autonomy of schools, in particular with regard to the creation of its own projects and the involvement of parents, authorities and local institutions? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u74	In reply, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u75	Mr President, Mrs Germana Rocha, I begin by thanking the question put that shows a curious aspect: the PSD considers that democratic management is the backwardness, i.e.,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u76	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u77	... the PSD comes here to defend that what is modern, what is current, what is sophisticated is the lack of true democracy in schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u78	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u79	They are trying to imply that democratic management is anachronistic, that democracy is a thing of the past, but they are wrong, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Democracy is a question of the future and it is precisely here that the CFP integrates, precisely defending the right of everyone, of all the bodies of the school, to participate in the life of the school and to have the power of decision. This is the big problem for the PSD because the PSD is very comfortable with the option to have a school director that centralizes everything in it, with no possibility of other school bodies having a word to say about what is happening.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u80	Everyone participates! Read the proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u81	That is not the way we stand for. The CFP advocates that only the power to participate and decide is that it gives meaning to the democratic government practices of schools. Only in this way can it be possible to break with participatory scenes, with processes and methods that are effectively lacking a democratic substance. Therefore, we reaffirm that the CFP project is in fact going in another sense to promote participation and decision, integrate students into this decision, integrate non-teaching workers, give voice also to teachers and, indeed, has nothing to do with that project that the PSD brought here today, which is no more than fine-tuning the non-democratic management of schools. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u82	You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs. Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Democracy and democratic management of schools are such important concepts that have been reflected in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic as a right and also in the Basic Law of the Educational System as the precepts of school management. It is regrettable that the PSD regretted having voted on the importance of democratic school management, but it would be tragic if the Socialist Party had forgotten that it also voted on the importance of democratic school management. Today, we could not be further away from this concept that we entered into in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and in the Basic Law of the Education System. Reality is a very different thing. The reality is of mega-grouping, where what matters are leaders, directors to whom it is asked that, more than teaching, they know, above all, of management, as though schools were companies, as if directors were CEOs of a large company. This school, which is far from democratic school today, is governed by a director where all powers are concentrated. A director today has more effective powers than those that are legislated. A director who lends himself to hierarchical, evaluative and disciplinary dependence of teachers and employees, who controls and determines all the work of teachers and employees, with hierarchical, disciplinary and evaluative power. A director who is the president of the administrative council, who is the president of the pedagogical council, whose composition the director controls, besides determining the establishment coordinators and also determining the department coordinators, despite the short list subterfuge. This director has appointment powers within the school as if it were political confidence, as if the school was not a place that should be managed by pedagogical and scientific criteria. This director can keep 16 years in office between indirect elections and even more indirect retraining. When Professor David Rodrigues said — and I remind you for the last time, the PSD Member applauded him standing here in this House — that these leaderships are Napoleonic (the phrase is not mine, could have been, but unfortunately not) is right. You are right, because this management model generates and promotes non-democratic leadership. The problem is not of people, it is not of directors, who will certainly be very good people, the problem is that the management model promotes non-democratic leadership and this has to be a problem in schools today. The PSD fills the mouths to talk about autarchs, fills the mouths to talk about companies, that everyone has to be inside the school, but a word for teachers, you don't have a word for the participation of students, you don't have! The pedagogic council is to finish!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u84	Finish? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u85	What are the functions that the PSD thinks should have the pedagogical advice? The only autonomy that PSD does not recognise to schools is pedagogical autonomy, and pedagogical autonomy comes first of all from the professional autonomy of teachers to whom the PSD wants to withdraw the power to define, discuss and decide how the school is managed and, now, to elect, among its peers, the team that leads the school. [[Congratulations from BE.]] We do not advocate this management model. We defend a model of management in which decision-making capacity within the school has pedagogical criteria and that is the model of management that serves a school that forms participatory citizens, active citizens, autonomous people, in fact, as described in the profile of the student that we have all praised, in one way or another. This profile of the student has to have consequences and this profile of the student, who we want to be the profile of the student at the exit of compulsory education, is not compatible with a management model that does not promote participation and democracy. when we consider that democracy is a democratic irrationality then this country runs a tragic risk of disregarding precisely the importance of democracy in all spaces, starting with school. That is why the Left Block is going to present a project, which is why the Left Block thinks that the school bodies should be elected, they should be democratic, they should be collegiate and that is what we hope this debate will be. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u86	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Nilza de Sena, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u87	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin my speech by saying that the PSD bench does not accept lessons of democracy from a party that promotes the policy of failure and instability, I override the evaluations, with the curriculum, with the profile of the student and now also with the model of democratic management of schools that I do not know exactly what it is. What I know is exactly what good and bad management, Mrs. And I know that the current management model, which we reinforce with our project, corresponds precisely to the strengthening of leadership and pedagogical project that are both important for the success of our students. So let us defend this model because, in fact, it produces results, those you want to deny. Madam Member, we are not afraid of extending the school to the local community, local authorities, parents, association of parents, institutions, we are not afraid of any of this. Let me ask you, Madam Member, if you have the courage to say here that you believe that current school directors have an antidemocratic job. It is, by the way, filling your mouth with so much democracy, that you are saying that you are suspicious and that you are saying that these school directors do not work and have an exercise against the results that have come to confirm what we say and not what you say. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u88	In reply, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor, whom I would like to pay some attention to the time available.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u89	I'll try, Mr. President. Mrs Nilza de Sena began by saying that she does not understand what the democratic management of schools is. in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic it is defined as follows: « Teachers and students have the right to participate in the democratic management of schools(...) ». in the Basics Act it is said that administration and management are guided by « principles of democratity and participation of all those involved in the educational process » in each school and that in the administration and management of establishments they must « prevail criteria of a pedagogical and scientific nature on criteria of an administrative nature ». These documents that the PSD voted explain what the democratic management of schools is. What is not the democratic management of schools? It is to make mega, mega-groupings and not to be able to explain the pedagogical argument for the creation of these mega-groupings and not to explain why this is but a mere budgetary criterion of cuts in education and the concentration and centralization of powers in these mega-groupings. Democracy, for the PSD, is seen as an obstacle within schools, but democratic management, the possibility...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u90	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u91	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, democratic management, the possibility of participation in school management is not formalism, it is not a flower in the lapel, it is not a room biombo, it is part of the educational process of students. Students do not learn to vote at the age of 18, at a fingertips, participate in their school, learn democracy by experiencing it, and this is what the PSD wants to refuse, because it has a view of the school completely different from the one the Left Block defends, which is a public school that forms citizens and not just workers for the labour market. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u92	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that in order to understand this project that today the PSD brings to the discussion in the Assembly of the Republic is important terms given what is the concept of education of the PSD, and also the CDS, and adds the CDS, because they demonstrated it in the past legislature, when they had the majority of Members in the Assembly of the Republic and formed government, with the education policies that they have developed at the time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u94	in this matter there has been no change!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u95	This education policy had many characteristics, and I will emphasise some of them, of which The Greens are deeply distant. One of them was precisely the fragility of public school to give rise to private school. They always come with this conversation that others are afraid of private school, have prejudices about private school, when you have a deep prejudice about public school. And they did a lot, they sailed a lot in the past legislature to weaken and discredit the public school, just to replace it with the private offer, which is absolutely regrettable. On the other hand, they showed a deep disrespect by the teachers. It will be enough, perhaps, to say that they made the biggest dismissal of teachers that there is memory in a single legislature.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u96	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u97	They showed no respect for teachers and, in this logic, what they sought to do, for example, was to increase the number of students per class, weakening the learning conditions in the classes and, of course, going to meet the one who was your goal, which was to fire teachers. What did the students offer? « Study there during the year and then undergo an examination. And the exam is that it will dictate much of your note».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u98	Big part? It was 30%!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u99	This was the pedagogical offer they gave to the students and they were very upset when the exams ended.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u100	And that's where the results got better? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u101	But it's all over, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, you do not really have the notion of what continuous evaluation can do in the training of a student and in its most comprehensive training. [[PCP applause.]] Well, it is this vision, that I gave some examples, deeply retrograde that the PSD brings us and submits to the appreciation in its bill. And what does this deeply retrograde view take? The idea that this thing to send to schools is not for everyone, it's for a director, the umbrella, the all-powerful of the school, who commands and the others obey. This is the absolutely retrograde logic that the PSD wants to foster.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u102	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u103	College bodies, participated by all, in the school community? Oh, my God! No, that's something the PSD thinks doesn't make any sense at all,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u104	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u105	...has absolutely no effect, because what matters is there is a rainstorm, a school principal, who has and adds all the powers. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if this is a democratic logic, excuse me but you do not have your feet firmly on the ground. [[Protests by PSD Member Amadeu Soares Alberaria.]] That is all that denies democratic management in school and, of course, the Greens challenge all this, because we are absolutely in favour of collegial bodies. Mr Amadeu Soares Alberdaria, at the beginning of the debate, and I have even been paying due attention, was questioned by a number of parliamentary groups on some very concrete issues. Interestingly, the honourable Member answered in general and did not answer the specific questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u106	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u107	That's what generals are!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u108	But don't worry, because this bench even has some understanding of the strategy you adopted in your answer, for a very simple reason: you couldn't defend the indefensible!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u109	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u110	It is that you would not get here and say: "Look, we have absolutely no respect for the teachers and we do not want the students to participate". I could not take it publicly, but, in truth, that is what you think and interiorize.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u111	They defend, but they don't have the courage to take it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u112	For example, why is it that you, in your bill, have remembered that the representatives of the parents cannot be teachers? Oh, my God! If parents trust these parents, who are, by chance, teachers, why are you saying "No, you gentlemen, because they are teachers, they cannot represent the parents, even though they are parents of school children"? Oh, my God! Does this make any sense, sir? Oh, my God! This doesn't fit anyone's head!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u113	Great democracy for you!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u114	What do you have against the teachers? They're parents! They're school students' parents! It doesn't make any sense at all! They are parents of school students, they are no less than the others! What if parents trust those parents? Oh, my God! Isn't it Mr. Member who will decide for whom the parents are represented in the general council, or is it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u115	It's not, but I wanted to!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u116	By the way, he wants to be! There you are, your logic of democracy has absolutely no logic!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u117	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u118	Now, Mr. President? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u119	Right now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u120	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. Regarding students, the question I ask is: are students not part of the school community? [[PSD protests.]] Mr. Member, do you or don't you? Oh, my God! And what is the fear of putting students in a participatory, interventional, civic logic at school? Oh, my God! Don't! He scares you deeply!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u121	It's on the bill! Have you read? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u122	Even to finish, Mr. President, I only hope one thing, Mr. Amadeu Soares Alberdaria, which is that this project deserves today a rotent lead by the Assembly of the Republic, for the sake of democracy and democratic management of schools. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u123	For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Odete João.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD project here under discussion, amending Decree-Law No. 75/2008, does not bring anything new, does not go away from a messed up and disconnected set of amendments. The proposals, apart from being punctual, do not add any improvement in the organization and management of schools, do not serve the purpose of densifying the autonomy of schools or strengthening leadership — expressed in the explanatory statement of the reasons of this bill — nothing adds to the improvement of education as a public service, universal. Schools, directors, students, parents, the school community deserved more and better.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u125	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u126	But it should be remembered that this diploma was amended in 2012 by the PSD government / CDS. Now, without dialogue with the different institutional partners, without any evaluation and inopined form, the PSD makes the table of everything that is underway in terms of projects for the autonomy of schools and for the affirmation of the identity of schools. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The amendments proposed in this initiative confuse the competences of the various school bodies and call into question the capacity and effectiveness of the intervention of the same bodies, as has been widely demonstrated here. A clear example is that of the formation of classes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u127	Your idea is better! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u128	Confounding educational matters with executive competences and school mission actions is contributing to the chaos of the legal architecture of the diploma, does not add intervention capacity to each of the management and management bodies of schools and much less strengthens the leadership. It is therefore important to deepen the construction of the autonomy of schools, and this is the work being done by the Socialist Party, drawing up political measures that contribute to the promotion of better learning, to the reduction of failure and dropout of schools, giving schools the freedom and responsibility to organize themselves, in order to define action plans that can better respond to the needs of their educational community. This is the true autonomy of schools: freedom to decide! [[P.S.'s applause.]] And this process takes place after a long period of listening to the various social partners, the international discussion forums and in principle having a stable development framework. For this reason, the Government launched the National School Success Promotion Program in 2016. This program contributes to affirming the autonomy of schools, because it is based on the development of strategic action plans, developed by the school itself from its reality and the impact that the decisions made have on the quality of learning. This is the true pedagogical autonomy!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u129	It makes all the difference!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u130	For the Socialist Party, the focus of educational action was and will always be focused on the student. Through the autonomy and curriculum flexibility given to schools to explore new ways of organizing themselves, new ways of managing non-formal times, new ways of promoting pedagogical differentiation, in particular that resulting from interdisciplinary nature, through innovative projects, in addition to the possibility of schools managing 20 % of the weekly hourly load, are being given firm steps in the creation of more motivating, cooperative and deeper learning environments of network work. This is the way to consolidate the school and affirm its identity. This is the way to build a better society. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u131	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau did not record any entries for the formulation of requests for clarification to Mrs Odete João, and therefore gave the floor, for an intervention, to the next speaker, who is Mr Emídio Guerreiro. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD wants more power for schools, teachers and their bodies. The PSD wants more autonomy, but autonomy is not isolation, it is not sectarianism, it is openness. It is with the involvement of all — the direction, teachers and families — that we enhance the improvement of school results. Anyone who wants to transform schools into small extensions of FENPROF will be disappointed and does not like our proposal. Anyone who wants, under the false pretext of democracy, to make schools ungovernable and closed over themselves will be disappointed. Whoever wants to transform schools into small feuds of absolute powers will not count on us. But those who believe that transparency, co-responsibility, sharing, collaboration and the balance of powers are elements that strengthen democracy and leadership knows that this is the right way. More and better autonomy for our schools will strengthen educational success. We believe that it should be the school, in its pedagogical project, through its organs, to establish the criteria of formation of classes. We believe that whoever is closest to the students, the management and their teachers will be able to adopt the most adjusted and appropriate criteria for promoting success. If the radical left distrusts teachers, directors and school organs, not the PSD! We trust the teachers and the organs of our schools! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The radical left prefers to believe in the mistakes made by the current Minister of Education, from then on the return to facilitation, because now the administrative passages are promoted and external evaluation is refused. You finished the exams and invented evidence of measurement in school years without parallel in the reference countries. In favour of nominal reform, the comparability of school results with other countries is at risk. You have reverted the measures introduced, measures that have put us into unheard of international reports, such as the PISA (Program for International Student Assessment), as well as those that compare the results of mathematics and science education. You reject the measures taken to combat early school dropout and, for the first time in more than a decade, this — unfortunately for all — has increased again in 2016. You announce the strengthening of the inclusion of students with special educational needs, but with the new rules, we have found that the number of students covered has decreased in 2016. You promise to reinforce professional education, ad with right to newspaper pages, but without practical effects, because, as they do not move in the minimum numbers of students by class, the measure is inconsequential, particularly in the low density territories in the country, where there are fewer students and which, without this change, will not be able to access professional educational offers. More serious: hidden in supposed new profiles of students and in supposed curriculum flexibility, we witnessed an attempt at educational leadership, aiming at creating a unique thought in Portuguese schools. An attitude that all Democrats should be ashamed of. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] The school is a plural space that should promote the knowledge and critical consciousness of our young people and cannot be an ideological conditioning space. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u133	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members, these examples illustrate what we currently have: a minister who governs for newspaper titles; a champion minister of non-response and who, eight months ago, refuses to respond to the PSD on the number of mixed classes this school year. But education, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is much more than newspaper titles. Education is much more than propaganda. Education is much more than political schemes and artisans to maintain balance of power. The diploma we present is not the Saudi retrogression to models of the past century. The diploma we present is a step forward in the right way. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u134	It's nothing, it's more than that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u135	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs. Lúcia Araújo.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u136	Mr President, Mr Emídio Guerreiro, it is with some perplexity that we are witnessing today in this House a debate on the bill that seeks a better education for all, which is said to provide a true equality of opportunity, without its proponents having listened to all the participants in the educational process, namely teachers and those who represent the parents and the educators. Formally, they didn't have to do, it is true, but you will agree with me, Mr, if I tell you that this project lacks a marked degree of democracy. The perplexities continue, Mr. I recall the Decrees-Laws Nos 144 / 2008 and 30 / 2015, where the powers delegated to the bodies of the municipalities, including the training plan and the criteria for organizing the classes, which Mr. in this sense, I would like to ask a question. Have you forgotten the previous decrees? Are you distracted or perhaps, Mr. Member, will it be due to lack of knowledge of cause that now proposes to strengthen the functions of the general council, forgetting that your PSD/CDS coalition government also legislates in 2015? Mr President, to fight for a quality school, to achieve an improvement in learning, it is a long process of several years, which adds the will and work of many, including teachers, parents, educators, so that everyone, together, can respond to the specificities of each student and each school. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u137	To reply, Mr. Emídio Guerreiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u138	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the questions you have raised. There is one question to be resolved in this debate: the current model of school management is, in its essence, a model of yours, a model launched by you in 2008.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u139	That's true, you're talking right now!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u140	Answer our question!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u141	Our proposal aims, exactly, to densify and improve this management model. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] What do we see in the Socialist Party? Completely radical left hostage, the PS doesn't know...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u142	Come in!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u143	... what to tell the Portuguese regarding the management of schools. So you have a problem to solve, it's not us! [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] If you want to discuss our proposals, you will vote for them shortly, and for the week, we will work together. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u144	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I have been listening carefully to the speeches, particularly from the left benches, and I have a doubt. The school, as it is not a company, cannot be directed by a director, who will automatically be an all-powerful, a umbrella. So, the country, which, in my view, is not a company either, should not also be led by a collegial body,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u146	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u147	... instead of being led by an all-powerful prime minister, a raincoat? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u148	What country does Mrs. Deputy live in? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u149	I don't know what you're waiting for to make this proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u150	Exactly! [[PS, PCP and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u151	There is still another question. The democratic management of schools, which the left defends, is more or less like having those inside the school decide, Collegiately, to go inside the school. In other words, it would be the same with the necessary adaptations that only public servants elect the government. [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] Is this, for you, a democratic management of schools? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u152	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Susana Amador.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: During this morning we spoke of autonomy and management of schools, a topic that is relevant, of the utmost importance, in a school that we want to participate and participate, a source of involvement and that goes to the meeting of our Constitution and its Article 77. where we are asked to ensure a more democratic participation in teaching. But the truth, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this school, which has been defended here today, is a school that, on the right, has lost. And he lost a lot, lost financial autonomy, lost human resources and lost means.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u154	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u155	And, dear Members of the PSD, without means there is no autonomy, it is an appearance, it is a mere shadow. Without human resources there is also no autonomy and no continuous investment there is no freedom in this school itself. The truth, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, it is much easier to destroy than to rebuild. And that's what we're doing, we're rebuilding the public school, the equal opportunity school we believe in. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Amadeu Soares Albertaria and Pedro Alves.]] Therefore, we are insisting on school: 200 school interventions for 2017, in our school park, in basic and secondary, contracted. We are insisting on school social action: 370,000 students benefited from school textbooks, and by September all students of 1. the cycle. [[Protests by PSD MP Pedro Alves.]] We are valuing teachers and students, bringing to citizenship schools and participatory budgets in schools themselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u156	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u157	We are deepening democracy, listening to everything and everyone, what did not happen to this bill, for which neither the school councils nor the Portuguese municipalities nor the parent associations were heard. [[PSD protests.]] The truth is, for us, sirs. Members, our design is, and it will always be the school success of all students, so that no one stays behind,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u158	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u159	... the fight, without truce, to the retention of students, that we did not speak here and to that which does not refer to the PSD bill. I mean, above all, we believe in strategic action programs anchored,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u160	Again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u161	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u162	...from local diagnoses of problems. We believe in a clear strengthening of school autonomy, we believe in innovative schools, where there is curriculum flexibility, where there is autonomy and therefore 195 schools have already joined the programmes of an interdisciplinary approach. In conclusion, I want to say to you, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we believe that autonomy is a process of building, daily, school identity. It is a process that schools increasingly put in their space of action and, therefore, this bill is a great missed opportunity, it is casuistic, it is torn apart, it is confusing and it is not strategic. To conclude, Mr. Member, and with your tolerance, Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u163	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u164	... our train is a train that is full of ideas and participation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yours is empty and, more serious than that, your train has no driver, it has no direction, it has no right path. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Pedro Alves.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u165	To conclude the debate, Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The current school management model was implemented in 2008 by a government of the Socialist Party. In 2012, this model was improved and deepened. The results are known...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u167	That's true.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u168	...and the results are good. The evaluation of this model is, from a national or international point of view, a positive assessment.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u169	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u170	Our proposal today aims to further improve the model and thus strengthen autonomy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u171	But where? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u172	... the transparency and credibility of school management. The aim is to give more power to schools and ensure the participation of the local community—from the parents to the authorities, from the companies to the association movement—either in the definition and constitution of classes, either in the pedagogical differentiation, or in ensuring the participation of the parents in charge of education, or in strengthening the competences of the governing bodies. The question that must be raised is the following: why should the State be afraid to give this power and autonomy to those who are close to the reality of the students and to whom is this objective to take care of the qualifications of people?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u173	All right! [[Protests from the PCP and PS MP Porfirio Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u174	But what autonomy? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u175	The public education service does not need facilitation,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u176	... does not need administrative passages, mistrust and corporate or ideological excesses. The public education service needs, yes, quality and demand, a culture of merit, to guarantee solid knowledge, to develop critical capacities, to stimulate and develop, economically, culturally and socially, the Country. The option, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it cannot be the PSD option or the Socialist Party option.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u177	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u178	The option, even looking at this history of the last nine years, has to be a truly national option...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u179	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u180	... and, being a national option, can't be adulterated, can't have advances and retreats, can't be hostage to ideological complexes or partial interests. [[PSD applause.]] The option, sirs. Members, it's a strategic option, it's a structural option, it's a structural option, it's really a national design. We don't need everyone to agree on everything, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot shake this model's masterpieces. The Socialist Party must really define itself. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] It has to be defined! [[Protests by PS Member Carlos César.]] It must be said that this national option is broken and that it adheres to the radical position of the Communist Party and the Left Block or, on the other hand, it has the courage to take on its heritage and the sense of state not only to see what has to happen today, in the day-to-day, but to project the country for the next decades, not spoiling the positive work that has been done. If the PS gives up the national option to build a qualified, competitive public school, with autonomy, with demand, with a culture of merit, a public school that can promote the country's productivity and competitiveness, if the Socialist Party gives up this option, then the conclusion is simple: this Socialist Party wants to govern at any cost.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u181	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u182	This Socialist Party does not look at the future of the country, just look at its day-to-day. What is behind some of the interventions that have been made today by Members of the Socialist Party is that the Communist Party and the Left Block are doing to the PS what they want to do to schools, which is to gain autonomy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u183	So I want to end this debate...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u184	It's a joke!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u185	This isn't a joke, sir! This is really the future of the country. It's really the future of the country! [[PSD applause.]] Mr President, to conclude this debate I raise a question to the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u186	Now? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u187	...and that has to do with the option that they will also take from here to minutes when we vote on this bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u188	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u189	at the end of this debate, the question I put to the Socialist Party is this: 44 years after your foundation, the Socialist Party will accept to be hostage to communism...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u190	If I had attended the debate, I would know what the point of voting is.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u191	...or will be faithful to your principles,... [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u192	... to your culture and your reform and this model?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u193	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u194	Will you have the courage to assume that this PSD bill can be discussed with you, so that we can continue to improve the public education service? [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u195	Mrs. Members, completed discussion of Bill No 511 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) we have reached the end of our agenda of debates today. Before we start the voting period, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, will report on the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, he entered the Bureau, and was admitted, Bill No. 512 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the gender impact assessment scheme of the regulatory acts ( PS ), which falls to 1. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u197	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we are in a position to proceed to the verification of the deliberation quorum using the electronic system for this purpose. The gentlemen. Members who have not been able to register for any reason will have to signal to the Bureau so that their presence at the meeting is considered. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic picture records 197 presences, to which are added 8 of the PSD Deputies Antonio Ventura and Pedro Passos Coelho, of PS Helena Roseta, João Paulo Correia, Nuno Sá and Porfirio Silva and of the CDS-PP Álvaro Castello-Branco and Ilda Araújo Novo, making 205 Members present, so we have quorum for deliberation. Let us begin by voting No 292 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Despite the death of Augustine Domingues ( PS ). I request the Secretary, Mrs Sandra Pontedeira, to proceed to your reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Augustinho Domingues was born in 1940, in Santa Maria de Bouro, where he did his first studies and attended the first five years of secondary education at the seminars of the Society of Jesus. He graduated in Romanic Philology from the University of Coimbra, he graduated in Modern History at the Faculty of Letters of the Port, completing his master's degree in Portuguese Language and Literature at the University of Mininho. He was a high school teacher at the Liceu Sá de Miranda, in Braga, vice-director of the former Liceu de Barcelos and regional inspector for education in the districts of Braga and Viana do Castelo. in his political activity, he served as a member of the Constituent Assembly and the Assembly of the Republic, in several mandates, he was a councilman of the City of Amares, and was also a member of the National Commission of the PS. He was a regular contributor to the newspaper Correio do Minho and Diário do Minho. in the literary context, it was highlighted by the study and research he did of the works of several writers, especially his container Francisco Sá de Miranda. In addition to his vast political and literary intervention, Prof. Augustine Domingues will also be remembered for his extraordinary performance as Portuguese Master and Teacher in « his» Liceu Sá de Miranda, where he taught for several years and for many generations of young students from all over the Middle, in a spirit of openness and active participation in the classroom, which was not yet usual at the time. Its civic and political intervention has always been characterized, on the one hand, by the demand for respect for the democratic values of seriousness and integrity and, on the other, by tolerance and respect for the citizens, always in search of the fairer, more balanced and more involved decisions. His physical death causes, therefore, in all citizens who cherish democracy, an indisputable sense of loss, but his example will certainly not be forgotten, competing with us to honour his important legacy. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, expresses deep and heartfelt condolences to the family, friends and all those who have known and appreciated it, honoring Prof. Augustine Domingues, a man of culture who has cared about the values of citizenship and who has always fought for a more just and more supportive world, honoring his land and his country. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u199	Thank you, Secretary. Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on vote No 292 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 295 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Despite the death of Nuno Brederode Santos ( President of RA, PS, PS, CDS-PP, BE, The Greens, PAN and PCP ), who will be read by Ms. Secretary, Mrs. Idália Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It is with deep regret that the Assembly of the Republic marks the death of Nuno Brederode Santos. Born in Lisbon on 14 December 1944, Nuno Brederode Santos stood out as a young person in the anti-fascist student movement, next to Jorge Sampaio and a whole generation that defended democracy before there was democracy. He was a free man, always faithful to the values of European socialism. In 1977, he became a member of the Socialist Party, having been a member of the National Secretariat when Jorge Sampaio was Secretary-General. Later he also accompanied Jorge Sampaio in the Presidency of the Republic, as political adviser to the President, between 1996 and 2006. In addition to having exercised public functions at the State Participation Institute, he wrote in the Express for 17 years and later in the Newspaper. The quality of its chronics, always lucid and full of irony, was even worth the Cronical Gazette Award, of the Club of Journalists in 1990, when some of them were published in the book Civil Rumor. It had a recognised capacity for analysis and non-series observation. I liked life, friends and democratic debates. Only the prolonged disease has brought him these pleasures in recent years. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic notes with sadness its death, conveying its sorrow to the family, friends and the Socialist Party. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u201	Thank you, Secretary. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on vote No 295 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now have vote No 293 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — On 28 April, National Day of Prevention and Safety at Work ( PS ), and I ask the Secretary, Mrs Sandra Pontedeira, to read it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u202	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The first ceremony he marked on 28 April, while National Day of Prevention and Safety at Work, took place in New York, in the UN, with a memorial that reminded workers and workers who lost their lives while working or who acquired diseases because of their professional activity. In 2001, this commemoration was not only recognized and supported by the International Labour Organization ( ILO ), but also in Portugal, the Assembly of the Republic, through Resolution No 44, established on 28 April as the National Labour Prevention and Safety Day. Falls, crushings, shocks and other accidents at work continue to cause injuries or the death of workers. Portugal continues to present a high and unacceptable rate of labour deficiency revealing the need to continue to intensify the fight for better living and working conditions, to affirm the importance of preventing occupational risks and to implement and comply with labour law on this subject, promoting safer and healthier workplaces and eradicating any type of repression on workers and workers. in this framework it is essential to continue the strengthening of the ACT, so that the High Labour Conditions Authority may be properly equipped to combat effectively the numerous situations of non-compliance occurring by employers. Indeed, occupational accidents and occupational diseases are not inevitable, but are mostly due to situations that grossly violate the law, poor working conditions and even sometimes the lack of prevention or ignorance of rights and duties by workers and employers. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic meeting in plenary: 1 — Decides to observe 1 minute silence in memory of Portuguese workers and workers who are victims of fatal accidents; 2 — He hopes that the government will continue to defend healthy, safe and dignified working environments in the way it is doing its job. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u203	Thank you, Secretary. Mrs. Members, the PSD requested a separate vote from the two points of vote No 293 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). So let us first vote on point 1. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 2. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the votes that we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We turn to vote No 294 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Greetings to 1. the May Day of Workers ( PS ), which will be read by Mrs. Secretary, Member of Parliament Idália Salvador Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u204	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Last Monday, the national holiday of 1 was celebrated. May. on that day, the Portuguese people not only commemorated the memory of the 131 years spent on the tragic events of Chicago as celebrated the memory of many thousands of men and women who during this period abandoned the comfort of their homes, the tranquility of their daily lives, the security of their families and, not abdicating their dreams, fought for better living and working conditions, sacrificing their daily lives and often their own lives. Because it is this brand that we have to remember and preserve — to keep the memory of Chicago martyrs, imprisoned or hanged, innocent victims of a fight for an eight-hour working day —, we have to take advantage of this day and this brand to remember that, despite all the advances achieved, the world has to change, globalization has to be humanized and work has to be valued. In Portugal, 1. May is a national holiday day, highlighting the importance of the date and its historical meaning. Unfortunately, with the passage of time, several companies and establishments, pressing traditions and rights, have opened their doors in a demonstration of regrettable strength. Portugal is experiencing a phase of political and social stability, enjoying a marked democratic normality that allows workers and citizens in general to think and plan their lives without striking. Very inestimable. Without the unpredictability, everyone has the choices that democracy offers them, because, at last, these are choices that enable them, responsibly, to build, with their contribution, an increasingly perfect democracy. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary on 5 May 2017 : 1 — Greetings 1. May and its profound meaning in the history of civilizational advances; 2 — Greet workers and Portuguese workers for the sacrifices and sense of responsibility they have been able to demonstrate over the years; 3 — He reaffirms that democracy is not a well-acquired and always secure and that it requires our constant rigour, our delivery and the daily work of each and every one for the good of all. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u205	Thank you, Secretary. Let us vote No 294 / XIII ( 2. ( a). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will now vote on the draft of deliberation No. 13 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Resolution No 2 - PL / 2016, adopted on 29 January, which lays down the composition, distribution and list of parliamentary friendship groups in the XIII Legislation ( RA President ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on Bill No 511/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amended third Decree-Law No 75 / 2008 of 22 April ( Approves the regime of autonomy, administration and management of public establishments in pre-school education and basic and secondary education ), as amended by Decree-Law No 224 / 2009 of 11 September and 137 / 2012 of 2 July ( PSD ) ( the original text was replaced by the author ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, with votes against the PSD and with abstentions from the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 768 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt a management model for the Center for Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation of the South that it responds to the actual needs of the users of the National Health Service served by that specialized unit ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 794 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government maintain the Centre for Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation of the South in the public sphere, providing it with a wide range of autonomy and with the human, technical and financial resources necessary for its full functioning (BE). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP, against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] We are now voting on draft resolution No 803 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government define and implement as soon as possible a new management model for the Center for Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation of the South, ensuring its clinical, financial and operational autonomy ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 815 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the public management of the Centre for Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation of the South, providing it with human, material and financial resources appropriate to the provision of high quality health care ( CFP ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP, against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 745 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure access to the right to participation of medicinal products ( CFP ) for reformers of the laniphy industry. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and two PS (Eurico Brillante Dias and Hortense Martins) and the CDS-PP and the PS abstentions.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 585/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent retraining of the fortress of Santa Catarina, Praia da Rocha ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u206	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u207	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u208	Mr President, it is to announce that I, Mrs Jamila Madeira and the Members. Mr Luís Graça and Mr Fernando Anastácio will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u209	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Paragraphs 57 to 71 of the Journal are hereby approved for plenary meetings of 1, 2, 3, 8, 9, 10, 15, 16, 17, 22, 23, 24, 29, 30, and 31 March 2017. If there are no objections, we will vote for them. [[Pause.]] [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we have to vote on an opinion from the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, will do well to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u210	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Local Court of Arcos de Valdevez ( Juiz 2 — Juiz 15 ) of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Viana do Castelo — Case No 603 / 15.9T8AV-B — the Sub-Commission on Ethics decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Emilia Cerqueira ( PSD ) to intervene in the proceedings, as a witness, within the framework of the said cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-05.u211	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the opinion that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we have arrived at the end of our work and the next plenary meeting will take place on May 9, Tuesday, at 3 p.m., and will have as an agenda: the general appraisal of Bill No. 497 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — prohibits the implementation of new concessions for the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the national territory ( BE and PAN ) ; joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 827 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to comply with the National Vaccination Programme in the school community ( CDS-PP ) and 828 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to comply with the National Programme for Vaccination in the Adult Population and Health Professionals ( CDS-PP ) ; the general debate of Bill No 340 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Statute of the Military Armed Forces ( EMFAR ) ( PCP ) ; the assessment of draft resolution No 607 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent replacement of four wagons in the Green Line of the Metropolitan of Lisbon ( The Greens ) ; the joint discussion of the projects of lein. 498 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Sanctions the use of poisons in the field of kinetic activity ( NAP), 502 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — establishes the mandatory presence of a health inspector in certain venatory acts ( PAN) and 503 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — prohibits the use of clothing as a means of hunting (PAN and BE), in general, and of draft resolutions Nos 809 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish a three-year moratorium regime for the hunting of common rolla and bran ( PAN) and 810 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish a uniform two-day hunting arrangements for ordered and unordered land (NAP). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you all a good weekend. I declare the sitting closed. [[It was 12 hours and 16 minutes.]]
