ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of authority to open the galleries. Before we enter our agenda, I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read the file. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, Bill No. 69 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Creates a simplified cadastral information system and projects of lein.o 498 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Sanctions the use of poisons in the field of kinetic activity ( NAP ), which falls to 7. the Commission ; 499 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Nationalisation of the Social Capital of the New Bank, SA ( BE ) ; 500 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates the public agricultural land bank ( BE ), 501 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter the legal regime of higher education institutions by introducing parity, strengthening the democratic functioning of universities and extinguishing the foundational regime ( BE) ; 502 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — establishes the mandatory presence of a health inspector in certain venatoria acts ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 503 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — prohibits the use of clothing as a means of hunting ( BE and PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission ; 504 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Determines the integration of the New Bank into the banking public sector and defines its conditions ( CFP ) ; 505 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The first amendment of Decree-Law No 237 / 2007 of 19 June which transposes Directive 2002 / 15 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 2007 on the organisation of working time of persons engaged in mobile road transport activities ( CFP ), which falls to 10. the Commission and 506 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Programming of investments in the prison system ( CFP ), which falls to 1. the Commission. It also entered the Bureau and was admitted, Parliamentary assessment No 35/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 28 / 2017 of 15 March, which amends Decree-Law No 132 / 2012, as amended and republished by Decree-Law No 83 -A / 2014 of 23 May, and as amended by Decree-Law No 9 / 2016 of 7 March, and Law No 12 / 2016 of 28 April, establishing the recruitment and mobility regime of basic and secondary teaching staff (BE ). They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, draft resolutions 795 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to enable works to be carried out at the Dr. Isidoro de Sousa School in Viana do Alentejo ( PSD ), which falls to 8. the Commission ; 796 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to enable works to be carried out at the André de Gouveia School in Évora ( PSD ), which falls to 8. the Commission ; 797 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to enable the establishment of a centre of high scientific and technological competence: Water and Energy at the University of Évora ( PSD ), which falls to 8. the Commission ; 798 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Dissatisfaction by the New Bank's sales decision without consulting the Assembly of the Republic ( BE ) ; 799 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of the status of a student-sportsman, guaranteeing social and academic rights and valuing sport practice ( BE) ; 800 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to prevent and combat domestic violence ( BE) ; 801 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government concentrate resources in support of the process of regulating livestock holdings ( BE ), which falls to 7. the Commission ; 802 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government define a set of policies that invert the current situation at the West Hospital Centre ( PS ) ; 803 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government define and implement as soon as possible a new management model for the Center for Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation of the South, ensuring its clinical, financial and operational autonomy ( PS ), which falls to 9. the Commission ; 804 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Determines the integration of the New Bank into the public banking sector ( CFP ) ; 805 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government review the territorial management instruments of the Southwest Alentejo and Costa Vicentina Natural Park, which are compatible with the protection of nature and the preservation of natural values with the economic development and well-being of populations ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 806 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government renegotiate the conditions of the State loan to the resolution fund for the New Bank ( PSD ) ; 807 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of measures to prevent and combat violence ( NAP ) ; 808 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government harmonise the hunting period according to the non-ordered land establishment in respect of the minor hunt ( NAP ), which falls to 7. the Commission ; 809 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish a 3-year moratorium regime for the hunting of common rolla and bran ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission ; 810 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish a uniform two-day regime for ordered and unordered kinetic land ( NAP ) which falls to 7. the Commission ; 811 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the approval of a new national plan for gender equality, citizenship and non-discrimination and the evaluation of the results and effectiveness of the application of electronic bracelets in the context of domestic violence; 812 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government forward annually to Parliament the evaluation of the implementation of national plans coordinated by the area of equality ( PSD ), which falls to 1. the Commission; 813 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, within the framework of the national reform plan, adopt a set of measures to place Portugal on a sustained path of economic growth and employment ( CDS-PP ) ; 814 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Stability Programme 2017 - 2021 and national reform plan ( CDS-PP ) and 815 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the public management of the Centre for Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation of the South, providing it with human, material and financial resources appropriate to the provision of high quality health care ( CFP ), which falls to 9. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. Let us therefore enter the agenda, which consists of a debate on the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme, under which draft resolutions 813 / XIII will be appreciated ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, within the framework of the national reform plan, adopt a set of measures to place Portugal on the sustained path of economic growth and employment ( CDS-PP ) and 814 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Stability programme 2017 - 2021 and national reform plan. To speak on behalf of the Government and to open the debate, Mr. Minister for Planning and Infrastructure Pedro Jesus Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We started the discussion of the National Reform Programme and the Stability Programme in this House in a context which I hope is very different from the one in which we discussed the same documents one year ago. One year ago, we presented the National Reform Programme with a medium-term strategy for the development of the country and the sectors to the right both said that there was no ambition for the document as they said that we did not end austerity or that we were ending austerity too quickly. But perhaps more revealing it was to say that our political proposals were not consistent, that they would not have the support of Brussels or that the markets would crucify us. They announced, because they truly desired it, the devil at every corner, convinced certainly that only their policies, those of austerity and impoverishment, could be the way to the country. [[Protests by PSD MP Carlos Alberto Gonçalves.]] A wrong path, based on low wages and low qualifications, in reduced public services to its paleest expression. With the disappointment of some, but with the satisfaction of the Portuguese, the devil did not appear,... [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Pedro Mota Soares.]] ...the European institutions praised our proposals and achievements, the Portuguese saw the resumption of investment, the recovery of the economy and the growth of employment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have proposed and implemented a different direction for Portugal, a path that has gone through macroeconomic stabilization and the financial system, by accelerating business investment, particularly through the acceleration of Portugal 2020 and the recovery of family income. The results confirm that we have drawn the right path, that the reforms are driving the economy and employment and that we have managed to maintain the necessary balance in order to improve the living conditions of the Portuguese, while at the same time we have met — and even exceeded — the budgetary targets. It is therefore with expectation that today we are still waiting for the leader of the major opposition party to fulfill what he promised a little more than a year ago; when they asked him what he would do if the government's strategy were to result, he replied, and I quote: "I would certainly begin to defend the vote on the PS, the PCP and the Left Block". [[P.S.'s applause.]] The results are encouraging, strengthening our confidence in the reforms we have presented, in the National Reform Programme that we are now implementing. We have launched a comprehensive set of reforms to increase competitiveness, with a stake in qualifications at all levels, from preschool to 600 000 adults who cannot stay behind, in order to overcome the most important structural deficit, the lack of qualifications. We launched initiatives to strengthen competitiveness through innovation, science and knowledge in companies, such as the INTERFACE Programme, the Industry 4.0 programme or the StartUp Portugal programme, being particularly relevant, in relation to what we already achieved in 2016, that 75% of the support granted for research and development in Portugal 2020 correspond to projects in co-promoting between companies and scientific institutions or higher education, with concrete results in what has long been targeted, i.e., the approach between the scientific system and the business fabric. We are strengthening competitiveness, also with more cities, through the important urban rehabilitation programme, but also with more mobility, through the implementation of the Railway 2020 programme or investments in ports. We are strengthening competitiveness with stronger companies through venture capitalisation measures. With funding lines or fiscal stimulus to capitalisation or the laws of the Capitalize package, we want to promote timely restructuring of companies when we are still facing opportunities and not just solving problems. The first positive results are there, as well as the improvement of the economic situation and business fabric in 2016, as the Banco de Portugal data have been reported today. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, strengthening the competitiveness of the economy is essential for economic growth and employment, but social cohesion is an end itself. Without losing sight of the fulfilment of the budgetary targets and the rigor of the public accounts, we have also developed a set of reforms oriented towards social and territorial cohesion. The recovery of family income, with the increase of the national minimum wage, with social support in combating child poverty and with support for our elderly, the freeness of school textbooks in the first cycle; the fight against school failure; the strengthening of the continuing care network, with the important launch of the continuing care network in mental health situations, the commitment to the cohesive development of low-density territories are just some of the initiatives that are improving the quality of life and the opportunities of Portuguese, of all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The results achieved so far are positive, but this is a process that is far from being completed, which we will continue throughout the legislature. This is what we do again with the measures included in the National Reform Programme in its update in 2017. We will therefore continue to struggle for the Portuguese to have a better life, to fight for a better gift, but above all for more future for Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u5	Mr Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, the Bureau registered, to request clarifications, seven Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u6	Mr President, I respond firstly to three requests for clarification and then to the last four.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u7	You have the floor, therefore, to ask for clarification, Mr José Moura Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u8	Mr President, Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, referred to a reform plan capable of promoting this virtuous triangle between more growth, better employment and greater equality. We certainly agree with the importance of having a more qualified productive fabric — the Minister has referred very much to this — capable of creating decent conditions for those who work and are able to take advantage of the qualifications that the new generations already have and are not being taken advantage of today because there are no job opportunities being given. That is, these generations are not being given a place in the productive system that recognizes their value. We must therefore respond to these structural conditions of the economy, because, if we do not, we will be perpetuating a logic, which, in fact, in the years of the troika, in particular, has settled at rates of incomportable unemployment, in the precariousness of an entire generation and in the penalization of those who have a long working life with low wages.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u10	from this point of view, there are two issues that are central to the Left Block and that must be pillars of this plan. The first question relates to the trajectory of the increase in the national minimum wage as agreed with us and as contained in the Government Programme. Valuation of wages is an essential element of the recovery of income, of the dignity of those who work and of the fight against the offence of waged poverty, and must therefore be an explicit priority in this plan. Mr Minister, I would like to hear you reaffirm that next year the minimum wage will increase to at least €580 and in 2019 will increase to at least €600, as shown in the Government Programme. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The second question I would like to raise concerns the fight against precariousness and justice for long-term contributions. We have been discussing for two years a concrete measure to penalise excessive turnover for companies using long-term contracts, a measure which already included the Government's programme and which is in the plan that Mr Minister presents. This measure, in addition to combating precariousness, would bring, in accordance with the accounts of Minister Mário Centeno, more EUR 350 million for social security in the first year in which it was implemented, more EUR 250 million in the second year, more EUR 200 million in the third year and more EUR 200 million in the fourth year. We have already lost two years of this measure and I believe it is time to move forward, until this revenue would be useful for the government to fulfil its commitment this year, which is to dedicate the right to reform, without any penalty, to those who work from childhood and have very long contributory careers. Making justice to this sacrificed generation is elementary. And, in this way, the renewal of the labour market and the creation of employment for children and grandchildren of that sacrificed generation is allowed. [[Congratulations from BE.]] So, Minister, I ask you the following: do you agree that this is an urgent priority to respond to the deficits in justice and to the blockades of the Portuguese economy? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u11	Mr Luís Leite Ramos has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u12	Mr President, Minister Pedro Marques, you have just presented in this Chamber one more of the famous and folk wraps with which the Government tries to deceive the Portuguese. We already know that it is a envelope covered with pink celeophane, but this wrap cannot hide the old roles and expenses that are inside, these papers that also cannot hide the lack of ambition and, above all, the little bit of the economic growth goal that your government is proposing to the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u14	Mr. Minister, it is really necessary to have a supreme, and even refined, development to come to public investment. If there is anyone who, in this government, has the face of the lack of public investment, of the greatest public investment that there is memory in Portugal is you Exa and your government! [[PSD applause.]] In 2016, this government had a public investment which represented 1, 5 % of GDP, see well, represented less 1 % of public investment than that of the difficult period of austerity, and less 1, 4 % of public investment which you, the Socialist Party and its Government promised to the country and announced with strawberries, with groups of economists and with pompous declarations. Therefore, talking about public investment is a lack of smell and respect for the Portuguese. More: even in terms of funds, which Mr Minister likes to glorify, I give him only one number. Comparing the year 2016 with the year 2009, which is the homologous year and for which it is necessary to make accounts, we compare the execution, we do not compare the advances, nor the expenditure made. Do you know how much less that was the investment in this area? It was less than EUR 1375 million compared to 2009, i.e. less than 38 %. Portugal, which from the end of 2011 to the end of the QREN (National Strategic Reference Framework) has led the implementation of Community funds in the European area, is today the seventh country on implementation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u15	The seventh? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u16	The seventh one! You heard me, Minister! If you want to compare and speak truth with Community funds, you must speak in implementation rather than in advance and at expenditure accounted for only by the Portuguese State.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u18	Let us return to the question of the brutal court of public expenditure in 2016. I know that Mr. Minister is not the only face of this court in public expenditure, but in the Ministry that you protect and in the infrastructure company in Portugal, which depends on V. Exa, the court last year was over EUR 400 million. I know that they called this court 'captives' and I know that this pompous name that they assigned served only to hide the reality of the facts. in practice, it corresponded to a cut in public expenditure, bringing into question public works in progress and questioning the maintenance and requalification of other works announced and even questioning railway and road safety. Yes, to the security! As for the railway and road situation, the cuts made in the infrastructures of Portugal have called into question security. My question is very simple, Minister: can the Portuguese be rested on safety, road and rail traffic, in the face of public investment in the infrastructures of Portugal? Is it possible to tell the country, before this House, that Portuguese can be rested with regard to road and rail safety? It is true that there were not only cuts in infrastructures, it is true that in education and health exactly the same thing happened. in education, the cuts called into question the operation of many schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u19	What cuts? There were no cuts! The budget has increased!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u20	I ask you to conclude, Mr Luís Leite Ramos. With regard to today's debate, it was agreed that I would only draw the attention of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, when they exceed twice the time it is scheduled to make requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u21	in the case of education, the Revanchist policy of this government was certified: for the first time, in 10 years, the rate of early school dropout increased. Mr Minister, we already realize that this government does not reform, it only reverts to the reforms that were made by the previous Government. Finally, Mr President, I would like to put a very simple question to the Minister: with the growth that his Government is planning for the coming years, i.e., 2 % on average, already reviewed below, where will the Government seek ways to secure the investment and the public expenditure necessary to continue not only to guarantee the Portuguese a set of basic public services and goods, but also to continue that return of income policy that the previous Government began after a recovery period initiated by a government to which you belonged? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u22	That's anecdotal!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u23	Mr Luís Leite Ramos has no way to tell anecdotes!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u24	Mrs. Members, I recall that, at the last Conference of Leaders, it was decided, by consensus, that, even in this kind of debate where the time that each of the Members is over is discounted in the time of each party, must be limited, and the limit is twice the time set. So Mr Leite Ramos had 2 minutes and I warned him every 4 minutes and I spent 5 minutes and 31 seconds in total. To request clarification, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u25	Mr President, Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, with the constraints and taxes of the European Union to which Portugal submits itself due to the Government's strategy and option, what is happening is that the response, which should be urgent and effective, to the country's structural needs continues to be postponed. We have already stated that from 2012 onwards, with PSD / CDS government, annual investment has become insufficient to compensate for annual fixed capital wear. But the problem stays. However, at the rate of investment growth planned for 2017 - 2021, in the Stability Programme, only in 2020 will it be possible to change this framework with the annual investment to overcome the annual investment weariness. This means that, on this floor, we will reach the end of the Legislature at the point which should be the starting point of this path of modernization and development of infrastructures and the productive potential of public services to respond to people's needs. Until then, it is losing the country, health and transport users, rail and road safety and the quality of life of the populations. Then, here we will be discussing the problems of the Monte Caparica High School or those of the El-Rei D. Manuel I school, in Alcochete, and here we will be debating, again, the metropolitan of Lisbon, or the line of Cascais or the branch of Lousã. The investment bet must be greater for the replacement of the fixed capital and investment stock to take place early and, in this regard, 2016 was another year of sinking of the public investment. Therefore, it is a very low point that does not allow great comparisons. So, Minister, the question is about the options that the Government takes in this strategy: how can one insist on submitting these constraints to our development and our sovereignty? The country has to recover lost time and move ahead decisively for economic policy measures that bet on quality public investment, with substantial national incorporation, which support our production apparatus and the substitution of imports by national production. That is the real national urgency to which political power must respond. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u26	In reply, Mr President, the Minister for Planning and Infrastructure has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u27	Mr President, Mr José Moura Soeiro, we agree with you about the importance of taking full advantage of the development and growth potential of our economy, but also of ensuring true equal opportunities for all workers, from then on for the younger and more qualified workers, which the country has happily come to support and train for more and better competitiveness. We need an economy that takes advantage of these human resources and gives them more stability. We made an important path in 2016 with the change of active employment policies. It was a very important reform that made state support, recruitment incentives and the stages themselves more directed towards a stable horizon in the workplace. This was a very important first step towards what we want: an economy that guarantees more stability and makes better use of the qualifications of the country and Portuguese. There will certainly be more measures in front of us, certainly some of them included in the Government Programme, such as those that use the differentiations of the single social rate to model the behaviours from the point of view of hiring companies. We have certainly come to have a fruitful debate to do justice not only to the younger and more qualified, but to those who have already given a whole life throughout the country and who have contributed to what we are today, those who have long careers and must therefore see this situation recognised in their access to pension. This debate is under way from a political point of view and Parliament with the social partners, and it is a debate which will soon lead to new political proposals and proposals for legislation to be discussed. Mr Bruno Dias, the issue of investment is very important. In order for the country to grow more and sustainably needs more investment. I'm sure you do. What path have we already begun to make in 2016? We had a second half of 2015 in which we received stagnation, we had a very difficult first semester and in the second half of 2016 the growth levels of investment were already very remarkable. I refer to the growth of investment in other machines and equipment, which is the most productive investment and the one that helps us in our international competitiveness, which was already of the order of 7% in the second half of 2016, and the recovery of public investment, which is already happening, which has already happened in the last quarter of 2016 and will have to happen much more in 2017. in this Stability Programme, in this State Budget, we have increased to 35 % our growth outlook for public investment in 2017. We believe that public investment must happen, yes, and it will remain at higher levels throughout the legislature than we had in the previous Stability Programme. The values that we reached in 2017 are finally the result of being able to put on the ground, also now in relation to public investment, as we can do in 2016 in private investment, Portugal 2020, in particular with investment in urban rehabilitation and with investment in rail. When we arrived to the government there were no competitions from Portugal 2020 to support public investment by the authorities, there were no competitions to support investment in the railway; the competitions needed to be approved, projects needed to be made, work contests needed to be launched. All this is the normal investment cycle that you ignored and delayed with the two years when you left Portugal 2020 stopped... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] ... and that caused the investment to delay in Portugal and the transition between the tables did not occur. at present we have EUR 1 billion of investment from approved authorities, we have hundreds of millions of investment from current authorities, we have the investment of the current railway and we are today, from the point of view of the implementation of Portugal 2020, as much as this costs PSD Members, according to data from the European Commission, the second country with the greatest absorption of Community funds...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u28	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u29	It's the seventh one!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u30	..., the second country throughout Europe with more payment of Community funds by the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u31	We're the seventh!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u32	We have improved, and much, the investment of companies, we have accelerated much in the implementation of public investment — growth in 2017 was 35 % — and we intend to maintain these levels for the following years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u33	To ask questions, Mr André Silva has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Minister Pedro Marques, the implementation of the National Reform Programme is demanding, especially as regards the axis of economic decarbonisation. Portugal ratified the Paris Agreement, the Government undertook to decarbonise the economy by 2050. We believe that the government is not doing everything it can, everything it has to do to meet the goals it has proposed. Portugal continues to produce electricity from coal burning and there are companies and industries that are still exempt from the payment of ISP ( oil and energy products tax ). Mr Minister, how long will Portugal continue to produce electricity from coal burning and how long will we continue to exempt these highly polluting companies? Mr. Minister, it is also possible in Portugal in 2017, if the Government so believes, to establish contracts for the granting and operation of hydrocarbons. The NAP presented last week an initiative which will be discussed in the coming weeks and would like to know whether or not the Minister and the Government are following this initiative to prevent the establishment of new contracts. It has nothing to do with existing contracts; we are talking about an initiative aimed at preventing the establishment of oil and gas exploration contracts from ahead. Mr Minister, does the Government follow this measure or not? Does the Government of Portugal give or not a new signal, a new message to Europe and the world by accepting this initiative?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u35	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Mr Secretary of State: Mr. Minister came here to make a speech from the 'wonder country', a sort of pink country, although with some shades of black and red. I would like to tell you that the Minister has forgotten to speak of a public debt, which is increasing, of the early dropout, which has increased, of the health debts, which are increasing, and even of what Mr has said has failed something that is going wrong. The Minister is unable, like the rest of the Government, to recognize what is going wrong. Mr. Minister came here to talk about investment? Investment, Minister? Oh, my God! Will we hear it? Did you come to speak of a government that planned for 2016 an increase in investment of 7, 8 % and that, after all, fell 0, 1 %?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u37	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u38	What Mr. Minister came here to say is that, basically, investment has grown down? Oh, my God! Did he grow down? Have you grown up decreasing, Minister? Oh, my God! Is that it?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u40	Mr Minister, to be clear, my question and my challenge are these: if this stability programme is so good, if this plan represents the success of this government, why do you not take it to vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u41	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u42	Because it's not supposed to be!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u43	Why are you afraid that the Minister and this government will vote on a document that links Portugal internally and externally? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u44	Because it's not supposed to be!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u45	Mr Minister, I say this clearly: if it is so good, take this programme to vote! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u46	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Jamila Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, a year ago the Government has come to this House to bring us a strategy, a vision to think about the Portuguese and Portuguese and the development of our country. A plan that turned Portugal towards the future and towards a path of prosperity and progress and respect for people and businesses. A plan that developed a path to the recovery of family income and social minimums, something that had been violently cut by the previous PSD/CDS government. This plan has drawn a different path from that of impoverishment and has so far come to a position of responsibility in policies and maintaining the sustainability of public accounts. More: reaching the lowest deficit ever achieved in 42 years of democracy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u48	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u49	... increasing social well-being, strengthening access to essential goods and services, particularly in education and health, and recovering economic dynamism throughout the year, increasing the economy in the process of convergence with its European partners—and we all know how difficult that process was. On the one hand, because this government has inherited a stopped and less agile Portugal 2020, from turned back to the country and to companies...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u50	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u51	... and with only EUR 4 million paid to companies. On the other hand, it inherited the problems of a banking system with serious difficulties in responding to investment support, with a very high risk credit stock, which was essential to solve, but it was also pressingly regaining the financial stability of the banking system and, now, its ability to finance the economy. Today, the scenario is different: Portugal presents itself to the world with a strategy and with the strength of the convictions that this strategy implemented over a year allowed, a strategy that is being implemented and, although it is still taking its first steps, its results are already visible, either in economic terms or in social terms and, now, in terms of public finances. The plan that the Government brings to discussion today has therefore everything to do with continuity and alignment with the plan that it brought here in 2016. This with all the known difficulties—we cannot forget about the promoters of misfortune, of which the PSD and the CDS have been good arrears, to block the expectations and to always yearn for the worst, as, indeed, today they have done again. But it was still possible to get here and with a recognised national success and - we read the international press. We understand that, with all this framework, it is difficult to accept the results, and some even say that it was a miracle, but the truth is that they have been achieved, and today, some of these, who have announced that it was a miracle, assume that the results are credible, that they are plausible, that they are probable and recognize that investment in the order of 4, 8 % is possible, achieving positive results and bringing back income and well-being to families and businesses. Thus, we can say, without false modesty, that the government now has in its favor all the performance of 2016 that it has brought so far. After all, contrary to the vision that the PSD/CDS government brought to this House in April 2015, there is in fact another way. The formula is clear: more income available, more investment in multiplier sectors essential to the country's new development paradigm, then more economy in motion, then more economic growth. It doesn't cost much, it's just thinking about people, it's just thinking about the country. Minister Pedro Marques, we all know - and today he presented to us here the National Reform Programme - that for many years we have heard the road to structural reforms, is something that the Portuguese say is always recurring, but in fact he hopes that it will continue to be with this plan that it will be possible to draw up and implement the reforms that are politically important to our country and that can bring positive results. I would therefore like to ask about how you intend to ensure continuity of the positive results that have been achieved so far and to articulate with the country's needs, objectives and goals as well as with the programming of Portugal 2020.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u52	Mrs. Deputy, you've far exceeded the four minutes we had fixed...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u53	I shall finish, Mr President, Mr Minister mentioned, but I would like you to develop a little more, the role of the Capitalisation Programme in pursuing this objective and how it will support companies—and we know that the knowledge economy is absolutely structural—and will ensure convergence at the level of innovation and development directly in the real economy and in companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u54	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u55	Mr President, Minister, it is not surprising that one of the main arguments with regard to the analysis of this national reform plan, which the PSD brings to the debate, is exactly the same as it was in last year. The great concern is that "this does not bring any reforms, just revert! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Therefore, I would also like here to repeat what he said last year, because I think it is important to say that it was essential to take steps to reverse a logic that was destroying the country, that he was trying to liquidate public services with a view to privatization, that he promoted the structural impoverishment of the Portuguese - it was not occasional; it was structural... Furthermore, senior PSD officials came to state publicly that people did not think about it, because wages would not be what they had been in 2011, and this was all said and said everything, Minister. Of course, it was necessary to reverse, but we need more than to reverse, Mr Minister; we need to move forward in all that we have fallen back, but we must also move forward from another point of departure. And, then, do you need more growth? Of course, yes, because if we want to create more jobs, we need to create more growth and there are two fundamental points here: more public investment and more productive activity, which are two essential axes to achieve this goal, and I remember that productive activity, of course, should be sustainable and compatible with social and environmental objectives. But, Minister, there is one issue which is part of all the speeches, but which is very little of the practice, and which has to do with the fight against regional asymmetries and the need for territorial cohesion. I would like you to tell us that you are looking at this plan for public investment and for the promotion of productive activity within the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u56	In reply, Mr President, the Minister for Planning and Infrastructure has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr André Silva spoke of the decarbonisation of the economy and I would like to remind you that the National Reform Programme is ambitious in the decarbonisation of the economy, in the objectives and also in measures, in particular in promoting electrical mobility, in promoting and strengthening public transport or, from the point of view of energy sources, with the great ambition for renewables, in particular with regard to solar betting. Mrs Jamila Madeira and Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, on structural reforms, moved forward « yes». To move towards a different agenda, of structural reforms, which bets on the qualifications of all Portuguese, on territorial cohesion, which bets on investment, on the employment of proximity, through the National Territorial Cohesion Programme, which bet on rail, which bet on ports to give competitiveness to our entire territory. A reform agenda for innovation, for investment support — yes, Mr Nuno Magalhães, for investment support — is an agenda that already has concrete results. Therefore, I am very surprised that you have not been attentive to INE data which, no. 4. in the quarter, we were told a 10 % increase in investment in machinery and equipment of 15 % of investment in transport material, or that this year, 20 % of the investment in use of cement, Mr... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... I do not know what Mr has not seen in the INE numbers of investment growth — and, with regard to public investment, even in gross training, in construction and engineering work, there are already orders to increase 140 %, with respect to the same period, there are works of urban rehabilitation, there are works in schools, health centres, in historical heritage. These works are on the ground, Mr Deputies, because Portugal 2020 is on the ground. And, with regard to public investment, even in gross training, construction and engineering have already been ordered to grow 140 %, in relation to the same period, in urban rehabilitation works, in works at schools, health centres, in historical heritage. These works are on the ground, Mr Deputies, because Portugal 2020 is on the ground. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But most importantly, Mr, it is support for private investment. Twice, in 2016, the two competitions from Portugal 2020 hit the records of the last 10 years in support of the private investment of Portuguese companies, support for investment with more innovation. About 75% of the projects are companies exposed to competition, to bet on exports, 75% of these projects are in co-promoting between companies and universities — collaborative innovation, Mr. Deputies, innovation between companies and universities. It was EUR 5000 million approved projects in Portugal 2020 that are now in operation and that make us find payments of EUR 4 million to companies and today have much more than EUR 460 million at the end of 2016. This is to execute investment support, this is the investment that is on the ground and that is what promotes economic growth. This is what promotes economic growth that creates jobs and opportunities for the most qualified and places Portugal to look up and not down, to compare with the worst, as your economic strategy in the previous government was. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u58	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate begins with a paradox. It is not the paradox of having a government announcing a reform plan that is no longer pink, is fluorescent pink,... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u60	... in the face of all the wonders that the Socialist Party comes here to announce but that it does not even have the courage to take votes, because it does not even know whether it can have the support of the parties that are at the base of this majority, the Communist Party and the Left Block. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It is not with this paradox that this debate begins, this debate begins with another paradox: the less reformist government that there is memory in Portugal,... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u61	...the most situationist government in the European Union is here presenting its national reform plan. This is the government which is led by a Prime Minister who does not even have the chance to come to the Assembly of the Republic to present its national plan for reforms, but which gives interviews, where it says: "I panic with structural reforms". Now, in the 21st century, in a global world, a country that does not reform is a country that is doomed to stay behind, is a country that is doomed to slowly define, to see all others pass by and to take advantage of the opportunities for growth and investment that are denied to it. Only in 2016 and 2017, Portugal lost eight places in the ranking of competitiveness and 13 places in the index of economic freedom. In both indicators, justification is the same: the Portuguese Government has lost the reformist momentum and, in this sense, this is the Government of a missed opportunity. [[CDS-PP applause.]] And we know why this happens. This is because the Socialist Party, in order to ensure the political survival of its government, of the united Left Government, has ceased to have the courage to make reforms and today presents itself as a mere business manager. [[PS protests.]] So, to us, what creeps is a country where the investment decreases,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u62	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u63	... in which economic growth is half that which has been promised to us, but above all, half of our direct competitors, in which exports do not remove, in which public debt continues to grow. What we are afraid of is that public investment has fallen to levels of 1995, that we have an indirect tax burden. Only in fuels there is an overtax of EUR 250 million more than what has been said to be withdrawing from taxpayers. What affrights us is that we have captives that leave schools closed, Portuguese without medical consultations or broken public transport and, in some cases, see! -, even without tickets. [[CDS-PP applause.]] This is the result of this management that governs us today, but it is also the fruit of situationism, lack of ambition and willingness to make reforms in which the government has placed itself. Let me just give you three examples of reforms that work. in the area of employment, if today the numbers of employment continue to rise this is also due to structural reform which has been carried out, with courage, in labour law. [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] What you said was going to be the work code for redundancies today is the work code for employment. [[CDS-PP applause.]] A second reform, in the area of tourism, was the liberalisation, the deburocratization, the fight against protectionism that placed us as European champions of tourism. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u64	Great can!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u65	The economic reform in the area of tourism, which you said would be deregulation, flexibility, has enabled us to solidify this sector. A third example, unfortunately, is that of the reversal of the decline in IRC, which has put investment in Portugal at negative levels, i.e. at less 0, 1 %, in contrast with the 7, 8 % promised to us in the « report of the wise » of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u66	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u67	in this sense, we have to ask: where is the promised growth of 3, 1 %, that the PS was already possible in 2017? Oh, my God! Where is the investment of 8, 4 %? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u68	What about private investment? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u69	Where are the exports to rise above 6 %? Oh, my God! We do not resign with this « small» growth of the economy and do not resign with the downward review of the future of Portugal. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It is only possible to counter this slow definition with a reformist impulse and that is what the CDS does, in this debate, with a draft resolution presenting a reform agenda and not a plan of mere maintenance measures, such as that presented by the Government and the Socialist Party. We propose reforms in the area of economics and competitiveness, reiterating the objective of having by 2020 our exports to represent 50 % of national GDP. We propose reforms such as the reduction of IRC to 20%, but lowering it to 17% in the area of legislation, to promote economic growth. We propose reforms such as the elimination of this increase in fuel tax — a set of amendments which the PS said would be neutral but which only represented an additional EUR 250 million in 2017 to Portuguese taxpayers. We propose reforms in the education and qualification of Portuguese, with the launch of a network, a partnership between the public sector, the social sector and the private sector, which ensures the universality of the pre-school, from 3 years, and its mandatory, from 5 years. We propose reforms in justice, which decongest and deburricate the courts, but which also create a mediation and arbitration centre, with uniform rules on access costs, procedures and regulations, with sufficient competences, human resources and material conditions. We propose reforms in the modernization of the State by launching a new programme to reduce the structures and positions of the State's leadership, which unites the payment functions of each ministry in a single service. We propose reforms in the area of security of citizens, so forgotten and so mistreated by this government, that they launch a plan to modernize and strengthen security forces and services,... [[Protests from PCP MP Carla Cruz.]] ... that they can schedule the investments to be made, in particular in infrastructure and equipment. We propose reforms to ensure increased access and combat the capture of the national health system, removing the capituations and underfunding of the SNS, but also strengthening the autonomy and conditions of work delivery by professionals, and allowing, moreover, to complete primary health care networks and work in the continuous and palliative care network. We propose reforms in the area of work, birth and social security, launching an ambitious plan that combats long-term unemployment, like what has been done to young unemployment. We propose reforms that once again place agriculture and the sea as essential pillars of our economic development, taking advantage of all the Community funds, and that enable them to achieve food self-sufficiency by 2020, as planned in the past, but also reforms that avoid tragic intentions, such as ‘agrarian and fiscal reform’, through the worsening of the IMI, properties that may have an agricultural use. by the CDS, here we are, with our alternative, with our ability to present a structured set of reforms for Portugal. We want to see how the other parties will now vote on this matter, but, above all, we want to see what kind of support is that the parties that support the government will give you in this debate. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u70	To ask for clarifications, Mr. João Galamba wrote. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u71	Mr President, Mr Pedro Mota Soares spoke here on a reform agenda which was allegedly reversed. Indeed, there was one that was, Mr President! Interestingly, it was that of the area which the honourable Member was protecting, that of pensions. With regard to this reform — and the CDS has already said that it agreed with the structural reform of the cut of EUR 600 million in pensions —... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...I have no problem recognizing that the Socialist Party has reverted, because it is not a reform that benefits the country. He spoke here about several proposals from the CDS, particularly in employment, tourism, IRC, at birth. I would therefore ask the honourable Member a brief question from the outset on the area of employment which he was also protecting. When he was a minister, he spent almost all the money from the European funds, which was for several years in the year of elections, subsidizing everything that moved: quality employment, unquality employment, precarious employment, low wages. Everything that moves in the employment market was subsidized by the ministry to which Mr President presides, without any criteria. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This government, as it believes that quality and stability at work are essential conditions for sustainable growth, has changed its policy and now only gives public support to non- precarious employment and quality employment. Do you approve of this measure, or do you prefer the previous one? Oh, my God! [[Laughs and applause from PS MP Marisabel Moutela.]] The honourable Member also spoke here about IRC, saying that it was a very important reform to ensure investment. Mr. Member, business investment, which is the one that is sensitive to the IRC rate, increased in 2016 the triple of what grew in 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, this is impossible because we did not lower the IRC rate and the investment of companies accelerates. Mr Member, whether or not this INE data, official, questions some of its theories and which, contrary to what it says, not only did not have any negative impact on business investment as it did, which may explain that business investment depends on other factors, not on the rate of IRC, in particular the income of Portuguese families, that you did not want to increase and that we are increasing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to birth, Mr President did not speak of it, but the CDS always presents itself as the party of the family. However, much of the family support policies were created by the Socialist Party and not by the CDS. I would like to ask you two things, Mr President, whether or not you consider that taking exactly the same financial envelope for families and distributing it in a more equal way, not treating children of the rich and children of the poor, and now, within the framework of the social income of insertion, restoring child support are measures that, increasing financial support for families, improve the birth policy in Portugal? Oh, my God! These are the three questions I leave you with, Mr President, and I would like to thank the CDS for answering. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u72	To reply, Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u73	Mr President, Mr. João Galamba, I thank you for your questions. If I may, I begin by answering the question you put to me on investment. I think I am talking to the same Mr Galamba who was part of a group of wise men — he was the wise Galamba, he was the wise Centeno, he was the wise Brilliant... — who said that investment in Portugal was possible to rise 7, 8%. However, the investment in Portugal, in 2016, Mr Deputy — data from the National Institute of Statistics — fell 0, 1 %. And, therefore, the wise Galamba, the wise Centeno, the wise Brilliant, by the way, were not quite right in their prediction. But, Mr, I would like to continue to talk about some of your forecasts: GDP growth in 2016, 2, 4 %. It was 1, 4 % below the growth of 2015, which you said was very little.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u74	What was the deficit? Oh, my God! Tell me!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u75	Interestingly, as you know, Mr. Deputy, in 2015, where there was a loss of IRC, the tax collection, at the head of IRC, has even risen.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u76	Oh, yes! [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u77	But if you want, Mr, we will continue to talk about some of the predictions that you made. Export forecast: 6 %. Verified value: 4, 4 %. But, curiously, the honourable Member, who was so much talking about public debt, has stopped talking about public debt. Why? Oh, my God! Is it because the honourable Member predicted that the public debt would be 128 % and that it exceeded 130 % of GDP? Oh, my God! Is it because of this, Mr. Member? Oh, my God! The second question, which, for us, is very important, has to do with the birth of families. As you know, the family quotient, which you have withdrawn, was a measure which, within IRS, meant for families with children, a tax breakdown, the most significant that has happened. Finally, Mr President, there is a decision on Community funds: either the former Government has not implemented Community funds, or the former Government has implemented too many Community funds. It is decided there, Mr President, but it seems to me that there are, in fact, two Galambas, a wise Galamba, who was that of the past, and this Galamba present, that I will not even qualify. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u78	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The presentation of the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme, more than fulfilling an obligation before the European Commission, should be an opportunity to debate and evaluate what the majority of the government at each time intends to do in the medium term and how these intentions reflect the evolution of public finances. Or it should, because, unfortunately, it is not what we are doing here this year, in fact, as it was not last year. We have a governmental majority that only minorityly deals with the documents but still prefers to express a supposed disapproval with inconsequential words and to stay in the vicinity of power. The National Reform Programme does not present a single structural reform, from which it is not understood where the expected growth of exports and private investment will come from. It seems that the economy is growing because of the reforms that were undertaken in Portugal between 2011 and 2015, which have not yet been reversed, of course, and also to the cyclical recovery of the European and world economy. It is short, very short, for what the country needs and for what it was able to achieve after the enormous challenges that the Portuguese learned to overcome after the deep crisis in which the former Socialist Executive left the country. We cannot fail to remember that Portugal has already lost a year on this path of growth, by interrupting in 2016 the growth acceleration trajectory. The lack of ambition expressed in the documents we are discussing today, however, should not surprise us. It is always welcomed by the majority of the left as good news anything that is not a disgrace to the country: when the rating, which should be going up, is kept in waste, it is good news, because it has not yet fallen; when the interest of public debt at 10 years comes down slightly of 4 %, it is good news, ignoring, conveniently, that they were at 1, 5 % in the summer of 2015 ;... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u80	... when the growth of 2016 is set at 1, 4 %, it is good news, because the original forecast of 1, 8 % had already been reviewed down to 1, 2 %, no longer to speak of the much more optimistic forecasts of the macroeconomic scenario with which the PS presented the elections; when the left-wing majority remains, it is good news, even though this means that it was based on a firm commitment of stability for four years that the current government could assume power after the 2015 elections. This only reveals how the expectations of the left majority and probably of many of their supporters are always low and how their definition of success is no more than the absence of a round failure. The 2016 budget result is positive, but it was possible only because the Budget approved in this House was ignored and an opposite strategy was applied and also not surprising, with the most regrettable disregard for democratic principles, because always denying that the plan was another and never having the hombrety to present to the vote of the Members the plan that was actually carried out through a rectification budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u81	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u82	Of course, the lack of democratic lust is associated with the fear that the left-wing majority can fail and, in doubt, it is always best not to take the risk. But Europe and the world go through difficult, uncertain times. There are elections in the coming months with potential to ultimately change the face of Europe. Insecurity grows within our borders, but threats to world peace have other, no less worrying contours. The situation in Greece remains unresolved and under threat of a new deep crisis. Global economic recovery is still incipient and nothing can guarantee us that there will be no new crisis. A responsible government and majority would now be taking advantage of the favourable framework to reform the country and give the national economy a resilience, which it does not yet have, to deal with any future contingencies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u83	He saw himself during the four years!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u84	If it is true that we would hardly be safe from larger external shocks, it is no less true that its effects would be as less serious as we had done our own economic recovery work. The Government recognises in these documents that we are debating today that it needs to change strategy and that after all growth will not come from consumption. It's positive, but it's little. The Government had an obligation to withdraw Portugal's rating from the waste, make the economy grow much more, benefit from the European Central Bank's low-interest policy, and nothing, even nothing, in the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme indicates a path to this. Self-measured, generous, only to the bank. After renegotiating the loan to the Resolution Fund in such terms that it has effectively passed much of the cost to taxpayers, the majority now proposes to give the same banks the possibility of deducting the losses corresponding to the inequalities for 15 years. This is the same government, this is the same majority that soon in the State budget for 2016, broke the commitment on the reform of IRC and reversed the extension of the period of loss reporting of companies, returned to five years when the IRC reform had extended it to 12 years. And it is the same government and the same majority that dropped in the State Budget for 2017 the PSD's proposal to reinstate the 12-year-old.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u85	You say that like it's bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u86	It is true that the 12-year period remains for small and medium-sized enterprises, but unfortunately and as we well know, the overwhelming majority of smaller companies do not have taxable profits, so they do not benefit from this period. What is now clear is that, for this government and for the parties that support it, PCP and Block, only the bank deserves care and concerns. [[All right!]] [[PS, BE, PCP and Os Verde protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u87	Only in the banking sector can companies be large and have more time to deduct losses, paying less taxes. [[PSD applause.]] Only the bank needs to strengthen capital. The united left don't like large companies, who create many jobs, who innovate, who invest and who may be able to compete across borders, to be global players. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] If there is something that Portugal needs to increase the average size of its companies, but unless it is an excuse to have any incentive from this left-wing government. Real friends, bank only! [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u88	If we could pay the debt with your discharge, the problem was solved.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u89	I'd say, ladies. Members of the CFP and Mr Sr. Members of the Left Block, who would prove so prestigious for the part of the great capital that they most criticized before experimenting with power! [[PSD applause.]] The original sin of the majority remains: they manage to distribute wealth by some, but do not care about creation. They expect little from Portugal and the Portuguese. The Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme do not ensure stability, nor do they present reforms. They are documents for Brussels see. The Portuguese deserved more, even because we are able to do better. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u90	Mrs Galamba, you have signed up to request clarification from Mr João Galamba. You have the floor, Mr. João Galamba.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u91	Mr President, Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque, we are having a debate today which, in your opinion, is arithmetically impossible to be happening. Therefore, I understand his manifest difficulties there in pulpit. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I also like to hear about bank and financial sector, because the policy of the previous government has a face, which is yours. Unfortunately, in the country, in all international reports, both public institutions and rating agencies, there is one subject mentioned by all: the problems in the financial sector inherited by this government and the solutions to this financial sector that this government has implemented and that Mrs Deputy has not implemented. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member also comes here to say that this is all a little bit. The 120 000 jobs created in one year, a growth rate of employment which is almost twice what your government has left, is it little, Mrs Deputy? Oh, my God! Is the defrosting and increasing the real value of pensions with the abandonment of the cut-off of 600 million euros little, Mrs Deputy? Oh, my God! Is the minimum wage a small increase, Mrs. Member? Oh, my God! The increase in social benefits, family allowance, IRS (social income of insertion) of the ISC (sympathetic supplement for the elderly) is little, Mrs Deputy? Oh, my God! Mrs. Deputy, is the replacement of salary cuts a little bit? Oh, my God! What we know, Mrs Deputy, is that, compared with what this government and this majority have done during 2016, it is miles from what Mrs Deputy and her Government have done and what they plan to do in the next four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Deputy, the Portuguese understand the difference in governance. Surveys, which in the Socialist Party or on the left give almost twice as much as they give to the PSD and CDS, are not the most important. There is a'study' which, for any democrat, is the most important of all, Mrs Deputies, which is the fact that confidence in Parliament and the Government has doubled in just one year and in contradiction with Europe as a whole. And you know why? [[PSD protests.]] Because this government rules for people! [[P.S.'s applause.]] This government has a programme, commits itself to people and actually executes it, and therefore does not disappoint the Portuguese, contrary to what you and the previous government have done for four years. There is no government that survives without the support and trust of citizens. Does the honourable Member still talk about growth that doesn't happen... has the honourable Member already looked at the latest data on GDP, employment and investment? They are bigger than you have ever achieved, they are greater than all the international institutions anticipate for this year, when you were the Minister of Finance. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, I understand that there is some difficulty in recognizing the current economic cycle of employment and also, in terms of public finances, what this Government and this Minister have done and what you have never done. Madam Member, I understand that when things are not arithmetically possible, we tend to escape from reality, but reality exists and is here to confront it. I'd better get down to the ground and talk about it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u92	In reply, Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u93	Mr President, Mr. João Galamba, as regards the arithmetical impossible, I have here this document, which is the Stability Programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u94	Yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u95	It is here, made by you, explained what happened to public investment, what were the cuts in expenditure, what were the measures that did not pass through the approval in the Budget, in this Parliament, which allowed it to be possible to pretend that projections are correct with things that are not known, nor could you do.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u96	If you don't understand, we can try to explain!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u97	Mr Member, if I am the face of the financial policy of the previous government and the bank,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u98	From the bank, it's from the bank!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u99	...I have a lot of honor, but keep the honourable Member knowing that bankruptcy also has faces, and in the gallery there is yours as well. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] In fact, there are also the faces of many of the members of this government, memory is a very useful thing, Mr. Deputies, and not just the 2016 memory, as if what led us to 2011 had never happened.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u100	Ah, it's back in 2011!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u101	The honourable Member has repeatedly used the word 'pouchinho', which I have not used. In any case, he spoke to me about measures, the programme is called 'Reforms', Mr. Reforms are not measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u102	Are reforms not measures? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u103	So that the measures to increase wages, increase pensions, what results in job creation, result from reforms,... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u104	... reforms that the previous government has made in far more difficult circumstances. [[PSD applause.]] Reforms that you either reverse or don't do and the effect ends. In fact, you have counted — and again you are in your Programme, in your documents — with the help of the fall of interest to account for the deficit. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this part is also over, because you have already been able to stop this, not to mention the degradation of public services in education and health. Just because there's less news, doesn't mean they're not happening. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] Mr President, let me just say that I have no difficulty reading or talking about the results. But let me tell you that the most important poll is the elections...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u105	So you weren't "fucking" for that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u106	They've been defeated!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u107	... and the Portuguese, in 2015, after, supposedly, we had such a serious and badly wanted behavior for the Portuguese, returned to elect the same person for Prime Minister. [[Congrats from the PSD and the CDS-PP Member Isabel Galriza Neto.]] It is not, however, a question of formal legitimacy, Mr President, but if we are going to talk about polls, the polls that really matter are the polls made in the polls, with the votes of the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u108	Well, that's great!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u109	And we'll be there when the time comes, and we'll have to see what the result is. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u110	You have the floor, for an intervention on behalf of the Government, Mr Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government presented the 2017 - 2021 Stability Programme to the Assembly of the Republic at the end of last week. [[Protests by PSD Member Luís Montenegro.]] The document we have drawn up is part of the strategy that we have defined for Portugal and that we have been implementing since November 2015. After the second State budget, this is the second Stability Programme we present. This programme emerges in a context of economic and political stability that is highlighted internally and externally. We have always said that there was an alternative that would promote policies of inclusive economic growth, with social cohesion and ensure a consolidation of public accounts. The numbers prove it and the internal and external confidence reinforce our option. The results that the country has achieved are marked, bring credibility and enable us to maintain our determination in pursuing policies for inclusion and growth sharing with all economic actors. This is the essence of the Stability Programme. In 2016, we reached a deficit of 2 %, contributing to the sustainability of public accounts and for Portugal to exit from the excessive deficit procedure. Today we have a more credible state. at the same time, the national economy has grown 1, 4 % and converges with our European partners. Exports recorded maximum and the external surplus was consolidated. We are today a more competitive economy. in the labour market, we recorded the fall in unemployment for 2009, with 10 % at the end of the year. Unemployment is the most declining in Europe and employment in Portugal has increased by the end of the year, twice as much as the European Union. This is where the real recovery of income is made. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Another key aspect for the entire national economy was the strengthening of the financial system, and we all bear in mind the difficulties with which this sector is being discussed when we started functions, hidden so far. It is clear that we are in better economic, financial and social conditions today than we had at the beginning of this legislature. The Stability Programme, like the other policies, is based on realistic forecasts. For this year, the budget deficit should be reduced to 1,5 %. By 2021, we estimate a decrease in expenditure by 3 percentage points of GDP ( gross domestic product ) compared to 2017, but also a reduction in revenue by 0.6 percentage points with an impact on revenue from taxes. We are therefore confident that we will achieve the medium-term objective for the structural deficit and reduce debt to 109 % of GDP by 2021. The measures we have been designing and implementing, in a framework of dialogue and stability, make it possible to ensure strict management of public accounts, increasing confidence in our economy, with the consequent reduction in financing costs. The negative and historically low emission rates of today are another step in this direction. in the European context, the government has done everything, and everything will continue to do, to create the conditions for combining financing with growth. Europe must be an area of convergence. Europe must be a haven of well-being. We believe that the Portuguese economy will grow 1, 8 % by 2017, reaching 2, 2 % by 2021. Unemployment will continue to fall from 9, 9 % in 2017 to 7, 4 % in 2021, while using more skilled workers and higher-quality jobs will increase productivity in Portugal. In 2017, exports will increase by 4, 5 % above 4, 1 % of imports growth. Investment is also estimated to grow 4, 8 %, partly supported by the acceleration of the implementation of Community funds. The Stability Programme was prepared closely with the National Reform Programme, presented by the Minister for Planning and Infrastructure. The National Reform Programme is decisive in resolving the imbalances we still have in our country. For four years there was no understanding of what is the essence of our economy. [[That's the truth!]] [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u112	For four years it was assumed that retirement meant losing value. But that changed. They left us a country where the youngest found a job out there...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u113	And now, isn't it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u114	...and the youngest found unemployment in here. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in this country, unemployment led to the loss of pension rights, because there are no pensions without employment. The Stability Programme promotes sustained growth, which all have. In all economic indicators, 2017 continues and accentuates the growth trajectory of 2016. in the first quarter of 2017, exports increased as did not occur since 2010. in the first quarter of 2017, employment has increased as has not occurred since 2008. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in the first quarter of 2017, registered unemployment fell as it had not occurred since 1989 ; in fact since there were records. They are less than 103 600 unemployed compared to 2016. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in the first quarter of 2017, private investment indicators increased again to two digits, as had not occurred for several decades in Portugal. Since 2016 Portugal converges — I repeat, converges, Mrs. Members — again with Europe. [[That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u115	And, therefore, the younger Portuguese, who have left, are returning to Portugal. For all this to happen it is necessary to trust that only the full exercise of democracy and choices can bring us. The Stability Programme we are discussing today is a forecast document, with the risks arising from it. But, fortunately, of the comments addressed to the 2016 Stability Program, no one has come true. The predictions of all those who saw and announced the disqualification failed,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... especially those who have appealed to the supernatural. They were all wrong, happily for the Portuguese, happily for Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u116	Mr Minister, I inform you that there are seven entries for requests for clarification. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u117	Mr President, in two groups: one of four and one of three requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u118	Thus, you have the floor, first of all, Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u119	Mr President, Minister for Finance, Minister Pedro Marques did not respond, but we took advantage to ask for confirmation that the national minimum wage will rise to €580 in January 2018 and €600 in January 2019, as provided for in the Government Programme. Mr Mário Centeno is well aware of the results of the income recovery policy resulting from the agreements on the left. It also knows the weak state of public services in Portugal and the urgent need for public investment in the country. He knows these two realities, but in addition, and despite this, he proposes, in this Stability Programme, for each year and until 2021, a blocking of public expenditure. Public expenditure will increase below GDP; that is, in the next five years, the state will spend 19 billion below what its possibilities would be, let us say. And for what, Minister, so much forced savings? To reach 2021 with a primary balance of EUR 10 700 million, money used solely to pay interest on public debt, the rest being 2800 million, stored in the state funds, at the cost of public investment. Moreover, the Minister here proposes that by 2021 there be an adjustment to the balance of the public accounts of EUR 6500 million. Worse, it makes this doctrine, writing that this is countercyclical politics, as if a country, where growth does not exceed 2 % in real terms, needed a fiscal policy that would cool the country's economic growth. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mr Minister, what we have before us is not even an adjustment until 2021, what we have to say to us is that every year by 2031, decade and a half, the State will give a profit of 5 % used entirely to pay interest or to store in the state's coffers, at the cost of investment and public services. It's all wrong, Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u120	Then I vote against it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u121	It is the wrong policy, only to be able to reach Brussels as the good student of a country that obeys a debt reduction rule, which is the most stapofhurdish rule, the most dangerous rule and also the most impossible rule to achieve, as we well know. [[PSD protests.]] It is impossible, Mr Minister, because we have compared the forecasts that it brings, of primary balance, with the last 20 years of the Portuguese economy or in international terms, and this has not happened. And it's dangerous because it prevents the country from spending what it needs on investment, recovery, returns on income, and that's what has made the country grow. Mr. Minister, the Block is not recognized in these scenarios,... [[Oh!...]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u122	...the Block is not recognised for these objectives and the Block is not considered conditioned either by these scenarios or by these objectives. We deal with the policy that counts, and the policy that counts is the policy that corrects the injustices of the troika and is the policy that returns income to Portuguese, so punished by the years of PSD and CDS. Therefore, the question I would like to ask is about the steps of the IRS ( income tax for natural persons ), to reduce the tax burden on workers with lower incomes, as provided for in the agreement signed between the Left Block and the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u123	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u124	I will finish, Mr. President. What has been advanced in the matter of steps is the order of the symbolic. So the question I ask you is whether it is available for a more comprehensive policy that effectively cancels the tax draw made by the PSD and CDS. Mr. Minister, to phase and defer are different things and people can't wait anymore. Therefore, we want a commitment to change the steps by 2018. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u125	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u126	Mr President, Minister, the main novelty this afternoon is the return to opposition from the Left Block. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] It is always good to know that we have one more party to reinforce the opposition to the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u127	But they support it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u128	However, Mr Minister, this intervention proves that Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque was right about how she finished her speech: either this programme is 'for Brussels to see' and does not have the slightest condition to be put into practice, because she does not have majority support in Parliament, as has just been heard, or then the parties supporting the government say something to her electorate here, but in practice they end up making everything that the Government presents. [[PSD applause.]] Two, one. There is no third way, Minister,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u129	They're in the pocket! I don't pocket!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u130	...if you want to get to the end of your term. I must therefore say that the documents he has presented to us essentially have two sins: on the one hand, an amendment to the economic policy of the Government. The government promised and said it would make the economy grow on the basis of consumption and redistribute income. The growing economy — it was budgetary policy. In the middle of the year he recognized that something was going wrong and had to change economic policy and cut cuts, and sharp cuts. Where? in the investment, forgetting, in fact, what I had said, months before, Dr. António Costa. Dr. António Costa said: « This pilgrimage idea that it is possible to relaunch an economy without a significant increase in public investment is an absolutely failed idea». In other words, they put in the trash the statements and convictions of the Prime Minister! This is a fact that Mr. Minister has to take on. And they assumed cutting public investment to 1995 levels. And the results came. How? With an economy to grow less than in the previous year, with the investment to be lower than in the previous year, with private consumption to be lower in terms of growth than in the previous year with the PSD Government / CDS. It was a waste and a lost year! Second point: they now say that it will be different. Will it be different how? They say they're going to bet on investment and exports.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u131	Now it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u132	I am glad that you have changed your orientation, it is right to change that direction. That is the recognition of the failure of your policy. however, they do not present a measure, a reform for this to happen. They just talk and wait for things to happen to you. If it rains, it runs well; if it makes sun, it runs well. That is your only hope for the growth of the economy and exports now. Third point: lack of ambition and conformism, this is lacking in your whole position. Portugal has interest rates at 10 years around 4 %. It could be worse! The rating agencies keep us at the garbage level. It's not bad, they could have come down! Portugal grows more than one or two tenths. Excellent, even though we are growing half of Spain or a third of Ireland!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u133	Only if it's on the continental shelf!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u134	For the future, we assume, we will continue to grow less than our European partners, waste the expansion period in Europe, but patience! This lack of ambition is the most critical of this government. The government is simply waiting for everything to go well, even waiting for everything to go well, so it does not take a step so that things can now be different for the Portuguese. Certainly, Mr Minister, this government does not take up a policy of work or reform; it only expects time to pass and arrive at elections. That's the only concern you have.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u135	But the PSD is not worried about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u136	Unfortunately, the Portuguese deserved much more and much better. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u137	Mr Paulo Sá, from the CFP, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for Finance, the mere presentation of the Stability Programme alone represents a submission to the European Union's taxes, which the CFP rejects because it prevents an adequate response to the problems of the people and the country. The Government accepts all the constraints imposed by the European Union and at the same time wishes to continue the replacement of rights and income. But, Minister, how are these two objectives compatible? With the budgetary policy embedded in the European Union's share of taxes, how do we value work and workers? How do public services improve? How are hospitals and schools built? How do social support increase to the most disadvantaged? How do taxes on employment income and household consumption be reduced? How do productive sectors and public investment recover? Minister, how does Rossio get on the streets of Betesga?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u139	With the PCP vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister for Finance, the CFP has made a great contribution to the positive fiscal measures that have been taken, but there is still much to do, and we continue to beat ourselves. The tax collection of the former Government, PSD / CDS, must be reverted to labour income,... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] ... it is necessary to prevent people with lower incomes from starting to pay IRS by again indexing the minimum existence of the national minimum wage, it is necessary to increase the steps of IRS and significantly reduce the tax rate at the lowest and intermediate levels, it is necessary to improve the deductions of expenditure on health and education. On the other hand, it is necessary to properly tax large companies, large capital and great fortunes, it is necessary to increase the state spill for the largest companies,... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] ... you need to move forward with taxes on furniture and financial transactions, you need to end the tax benefits to the big capital. To increase tax revenue, the path must be this rather than the escalation of indirect taxes which penalise the consumption of families with lower incomes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u141	The Block has been more effective!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u142	We therefore ask the Government how these fiscal measures, which need to be adopted, are compatible with the budgetary section of this Stability Programme. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u143	It's not enough to talk, you have to vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u144	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, the Government's programme, as we have indeed come to demonstrate, is to comply. This Government has fulfilled all its internal commitments, all its commitments in the Assembly of the Republic, all its commitments with the social partners and, of course, all its external commitments, because that is the genesis of the governance of this government. [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]] So the question you are asking is answered in this way: we are here to fulfill the commitments we have made. But, also responding to Mr Paulo Sá, we have fulfilled these commitments precisely because we do all that you have said about how we have done so far. So far, we have recovered crucial productive sectors for the Portuguese economy; we have recovered the income where it has to be recovered, which is in the labour market. Social contributions in March 2017 increased by 7, 2 % compared to 2016. This is where the income of workers recovers, it is with the policies we have adopted that these numbers are possible. Also at the level of the recovery of social benefits, as some have said, we have, as you know, been working sequentially on a set of proposals and measures which are being implemented and which aim to recover income. This is not an impossibility. contrary to what the opposition parties said last year—if we recover the words of then—there is no impossibility, there is no promise of instability. It is a safe, credible path that we have made together and that surely we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u146	That's it, together!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u147	There is no change in economic policy because, after all, in 2015 the contribution of domestic demand to growth was much higher than in 2016 and the contribution of external demand was much lower, I repeat, much lower. Why? Because politics was wrong and because exports, in fact, were not the engine of growth that you were propagating. This is the truth.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u148	We were growing up a lot more!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u149	It is also true that reforms do not serve to lose value in the country. There is a view in this government of the reforms which you are systematically referring to. There is a very long list of reforms. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u150	Zero! Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u151	There are reforms in qualifications! Only one country with qualifications has the ability to progress in global competitiveness! This is not what the gentlemen have done! in fact, we are converging with Europe, something that never happened during the four years of PSD / CDS government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u152	Look at productivity!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u153	We are converging in economic activity; we are converging in employment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Employment in Portugal, at the end of 2016, grew twice as much as the European Union. It is this indicator that allows young people to return to the country, that the most qualified young people remain in the country and that the country gains competitiveness. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u154	To request clarification, Mr. João Paulo Correia, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u155	Mr President, Minister, this Stability Programme ( EP ) continues the 2016 strategy and therefore it is inevitable to visit the debate a year ago in this Parliament. PSD and CDS said about the 2016 PEC (Stability and Growth Programme), and I quote: '(...) the government's economic projections are clearly unrealistic and this fact, in principle, determines the impossibility of the targets being achieved. » I continue to quote: « (...) the reality of the facts is the tax burden to increase in 2016. I also quote : « (...) It is clear to everyone that the budget strategy for this year will not be met (...) » And I also say: « (...) I ask that the government correct itself before reality corrects it (...) ».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u156	Inspiration of Dr. Teodora Cardoso!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u157	Mr Minister, the opposition needs to be confronted with the failure of its strategy and its forecasts. in fact, what happened was that the reality did not correct the government, corrected the opposition PSD and CDS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The budget strategy resulted; the tax burden decreased in 2016; there was no plan b; there were no additional measures, nor was there a corrective budget. It was possible to reconcile fiscal consolidation with economic growth and social equity. Mr Minister, the main guarantee for the implementation of the stability and growth programmes is the results of the base year, i.e. the previous year. And the starting point of the CFP 2016 was the heavy economic, financial and social liabilities of 2015 ; it was a stagnant economy in the second half, with high unemployment, wages and cuts in pensions, maximum tax burden, tax revenues to be increased through the manipulation of withholding taxes on VAT, IRC and IRS, with problems of the financial system hidden by reason of electoral agenda, successively failed budgetary targets. But we also know that the PEC would present today if it were in power. It would be the CFP that would cut 600 million euros in pensions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It would be the PEC which would maintain wage cuts, which would not make the extraordinary increase in pensions, which would not lower the VAT of the restoration. It would be the PEC of policies to promote job insecurity and that would not degrade income taxes. It would be the PEC that does not rest the holidays, the complete dismantling of the public transport sector and the privatization of the General Deposit Box. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We know this would be the PEC on the right PSD / CDS. In view of this and what it was possible to implement, it is fair to state that 2016 was a true turn of page. The budget deficit and the primary balance have been exceeded; the economy has grown; the investment has grown 4, 5 % in the last quarter, compared to the same period of the previous year; the average wage for work has increased; the available income of the individuals has increased; the measures needed to consolidate the financial system have been taken. These results are confirmed by successive, always positive reviews of public accounts and the evolution of economic activity by national and international institutions of suspicious ideological affiliation. These are results that give credibility, that convey confidence and that are the main guarantee for successful implementation of the EP 2017 / 2021. In view of all this, I would like to ask you the following question: does the EP reconcile budgetary consolidation with the central objective of deepening the main policies of the Government Programme and the agreements between the PS and the parliamentary partners that support the government, such as income recovery policy, the deterioration of the tax burden on lower incomes, the fight against precariousness and social cohesion? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u158	For a request for clarification, although necessarily short, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, when, in 2016, increased the tax on petrol and gasoline, the Government said the following: "That is what we intend to do: maintaining tax neutrality by replacing VAT with ISP". The reality was this: in VAT, there was less EUR 65 million of revenue; in petrol and gasoline, plus EUR 313 million of revenue. The balance gives the State more than 250 million euros of revenue. Mr Minister, is my question very simple: will you keep the word given and end, by this month, with the increase in the tax on gas oil and gasoline? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u160	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Carla Cruz of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, how will the Government reconcile the cost reduction imposed by the accelerated reduction of the deficit with the resolution of the serious problems that are felt in the National Health Service? How are professionals hired to strengthen health care delivery, reduce burnout and reduce waiting times for consultations? How does the payment of extraordinary hours rest with all health professionals? How are the careers of these professionals frozen? How do 35 hours of work per week apply to all workers, regardless of the link? How are buildings and infrastructure rehabilitated to give better conditions to professionals and users? How are obsolete equipment replaced, reducing waiting times for treatment and avoiding the use of privates? Mr Minister, as it is understood that in the face of a situation where the strengthening of public response in the National Health Service is essential, what we see in the Stability Programme is the prospect of continuing the wagering in public-private partnerships, namely the increase in payments to the economic groups to which the management of the hospitals of Braga, Cascais, Loures and Vila Franca de Xira was delivered? The question that we put to you is how is it possible to reconcile the budgetary share of European taxes and this Stability Programme with the strengthening of funding and investment in the National Health Service, with the hiring of professionals and their social and professional valorization, with the rejection of PPPs (public-private partnerships) and the proper use of public money? That is what needs to be clarified, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u162	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u163	Mr President, Minister for Finance, we all realize that the European Union has a problem in the policies it has been defining, and this huge problem is to try to put the deficit as the center of the world, the deficit imposed on States as the center of the world, the end itself, without looking at means. The same is true, without looking at the impact this has on the development of the respective states and also the living conditions of their populations. from our perspective, and I think that also in the Minister and the Government, this is deeply negative, because we should not work for numbers but for people, but we fall into absolute unrealism and we are no longer aware of the necessary measures that must be implemented to solve people's specific problems. The Greens feel the responsibility, given what they saw in the Stability Programme, to pull the government into the real country...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u164	Get the government to reason!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u165	... and, to that end, to confront the fact that you have to make choices: either you work for the numbers and for 'Brussels see' or you work for the Portuguese and for the resolution of the country's specific problems. This to say what? If the government makes the choice that other governments have made with very bad results, i.e. to be obsessed with the issue of deficit, there are many issues related, for example, to health, education, justice, with numerous problems that public services have to respond to, with social support, with public investment, with support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that will no longer have a necessary answer — we will put the question in these realistic terms — to the necessary dimension. But there are also urgent answers that need to be given and which are contained in the joint position signed between the Government and the Greens, such as the revision of the IRS steps, the defrosting of public service careers or the hiring of more public officials for better public services. To all of this it is necessary to give an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u166	Oh! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u167	in this sense, I must say, the Greens will continue this work, to pull the government into the real country. Another problem which is clearly evident in the Stability Programme is the issue of debt and the enormous, enormous, exhausting debt interest, which makes it perfectly clear that up to 2021 Portuguese will have a serious problem behind it. in this sense, Minister, The Greens reaffirm that it is very important that we think and act towards renegotiating the debt so that a strike is created that we can take measures to benefit the Portuguese, which have indeed been so massacred with these obsessions, especially due to the deficit. This is one of the challenges that the Greens obviously want to leave to the government. Mr Minister, I do not want to conclude without mentioning that we are in no way without control of public accounts,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u168	Don't...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u169	...but the really different thing is the obsession with the deficit. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u170	In reply, Mr. Minister for Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today, we have no longer been confronted with forecasts of institutions. Today, we were no longer confronted with arithmetics or with impossibility. Today, we have finally managed to analyse the essence of the Stability Programme. And the essence of the Stability Programme, as Mr. João Paulo Correia has said, is budgetary consolidation and a set of policies that aim to recover income, recover employment, reduce or degrade the tax burden, particularly in the lowest incomes, look at the labour market, which is where all the wealth is generated in one country, look at the issues of precariousness, wages and can say today that in Portugal the employment rate is twice that of the European Union, which, in Portugal, employment has never grown in this century, that in Portugal unemployment is at the level of the European Union, what falls most and the register in March in the IEFP series ( Institute for Employment and Vocational Training ) has fallen as never since 1989, when it was created. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the economy and this is the society by which this Stability Programme presents itself. This Stability Programme is not to be presented in Brussels, is presented in this Parliament, discussed in this Parliament and is a programme for the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u172	It's just not adopted!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u173	It is a program for Portuguese because, for example, in the health sector, mentioned by Mrs Carla Cruz, there were in 2016 more 2000 nurses and more 1500 doctors, which represents a very significant effort that we have made in this sector. But also in education the number of days without classes because of the replacement of teachers fell abruptly in this school year. in this school year, the number of hours of classes lost because there are no substitute teachers is very small. Why? Because we changed the teaching replacement methodology, and therefore we also have more teachers placed on time and hours in schools in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the investment we make in the essential sectors.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u174	You want to finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u175	I will finish, Mr. President. That is why this Stability Programme has been made to show that the path of responsibility and the path of credibility must be made with fiscal policy, a balanced fiscal policy, which follows the principles that we have implemented since the beginning, in which the deterioration of direct taxation is the mark that we want to influence politics, thereby making the evolution of fiscal policy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Pedro Mota Soares.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u176	Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate will serve little if it is limited or focused solely on criteria and rules and its application or forecast and if it is off the problems of the country, the workers and the people, problems that need solution and response. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u178	Therefore, the Stability Programme and the national reform plan necessarily have to be assessed according to its framework, its objectives and its positioning in the face of the alternative policy that the country needs and that give effective response to all these economic and social problems, which are structural problems that the country faces. These two documents are part of the European Union's comprehensive instruments of interference and control over the Member States, resulting from mechanisms such as the budgetary treaty, the European Semester, economic governance, and which essentially aim to condition the political options of States and, above all, the objective of imposing a certain political orientation that goes towards deepening the exploitation, concentration of wealth and impoverishment of peoples, thereby necessarily and seriously reaching the sovereignty of States. For this reason, the CFP reaffirms its position of rejection of these instruments, which means conditioning sovereign options in the country, but we also want to state what has already been going through the various interventions that we have been doing throughout this debate, that is, our concern about the growing contradiction between the fulfilment of these criteria and guidelines that are imposed on us by the European Union and which fall within these instruments and, at the same time, the possibility of giving effect to the measures for the recovery of rights and income that have been achieved. The truth is that many problems have been unanswered and many of them have been affected by the conditioning of these economic and budgetary areas. Therefore, we have brought concrete questions about the need to respond to country problems that cannot find a solution within the framework of the parcel we are facing, particularly in the framework of these programmes. How is it ensured that the careers of employees of the Public Administration are frozen? How is the hiring of workers for schools or health services ensured? How is the fight against precariousness ensured by linking workers to the Public Administration? How can we ensure that it is possible to reverse the tax sack imposed by the previous Government if, at the same time, the country continues to adhere to the criteria for reducing the deficit imposed by the European Union? Mr Minister, with regard to the IRS, the problem is not just to reverse the tax draw in a year, two, three or four. It is necessary to adopt measures to reverse this tax burden by relieving labour taxes and ensuring a fairer tax on wealth, including taxation on capital. [[PCP applause.]] Mr Minister, this is a problem that we have been discussing there are several State budgets, at least in the last two, in particular, and that needs response at the level of the IRS steps, in deductions to the collection, also at the level of the minimum of existence, an essential issue to determine that new increases in the national minimum wage will not require workers who receive the minimum wage to pay the IRS that they do not have to pay. But we also ask: how is it possible to ensure public investment in health, education, science, culture or transport? How can we support the productive sectors, farmers, fishermen, our industry, to ensure that the country is less dependent, to guarantee conditions of job creation, wealth and, at the same time, the fairer distribution of that wealth, if we continue to be conditioned by the European Union's taxes, which see in each of these options a target to be slaughtered, because that means an alternative policy to the European Union's taxation, of aggravating, exploitation and concentration of wealth? How is it possible to break with the right-wing policy, which continues to suck billions of euros for PPPs or debt interest? How is it possible to respond to the structural problems of debt, of public control of the bank, of the monopoly area over the strategic sectors if at the same time it does not break with the European Union's impositions, which want to maintain and deepen the control of multinationals, of international capital over the strategic sectors of a country like ours?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u179	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u180	I'll finish. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members understand that the PSD and the CDS only want to discuss forecasts and projections because they do not really question the European Union's criteria and guidelines.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u181	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u182	The CDS repeats a maneuver that seeks to conceal its responsibilities and insist on the recovery of the previous government's policy, by proposing here a false rejection of the Programme, because, in fact, it agrees with the constraints, accepts interference and control, accompanies blackmail and pressure operations, moreover, in line with its position of national abdication and underservence in the face of external taxation. in its own project, it proposes that the country recover the policy of the previous government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u183	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u184	Despite the discomfort of the CDS, the PCP maintains its consistency. As we have fought very strongly for four years with the policy of the former Government, we will vote against a proposal from the CDS that seeks to return to the past, to the worst that had this policy of exploitation and impoverishment. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u185	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u186	Thanking you for your tolerance, Mr President, and to end it, I will say that the CFP rejects the options and criteria that affect the country, national development and the response to national problems. Therefore, we will continue to intervene to free Portugal from these constraints and to implement the alternative, patriotic and left-wing policy that the country needs, a commitment that the CFP assumes before the workers and the people and of which it will not abdicate. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u187	The Bureau does not record any other request for a word at this time. We expect this to be quickly overcome. [[Pause.]] [[There are high-expected body languages right now.]] [[Pause.]] Mr Pedro Filipe Soares was appointed for an intervention. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate is moving rapidly towards the end and I believe that there is a first conclusion that we can already withdraw: there is no alternative, in opposition, to this Stability Programme. The PSD, unmanned, has no alternative to present and only knows how to criticize, criticize and criticize. The CDS, which came to this debate as well without an alternative, has only one side: « Take votes, take votes! » This was the only thing I could say throughout the entire afternoon. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] Supreme irony of those who never complied with the votes that took them away in 2015, the Portuguese and Portuguese. But this debate could have been much deeper than the opposition wanted to do and, on the left side of the Block, we showed how it should be taken seriously. Therefore, Minister, I believe that the debate must be held within the parliamentary majority, which really has something to say about this Stability Programme. The country is not made of numbers, but of people. And if this truth is absolute, this is not seen in this Stability Programme, which represents more the fascination and illusion of numbers. It is sufficient to look at the forecast, for example, of the primary balance to verify that this Stability Programme either we continue to be the European recorders of the primary balance, providing that the same reaches 4, 9 % of GDP up to 2021, i.e. EUR 10,700 million of country profit after paying wages, pensions, social status, National Health Service, reforms. After paying all this, we will have EUR 10 700 million of profit, that is the reality they want to present to us. That is why, because a country is not made of numbers but, yes, people, it is in the lives of people and not the numbers that find the real deficit in the country. The deficit is in unemployment, poverty, lack of social support, in the future that is still denied by policies left behind by the right. For this reason, Mr. Minister of Finance, the first conclusion that we can in most cases withdraw is that the alternative to this Stability Programme is not in the opposition but in the parliamentary majority that was formed in 2015. It is because this parliamentary majority says that if this stability programme is « for Brussels see», it is not for the left to hear. This parliamentary majority was formed on the basis of concrete agreements and proposals and, if Minister Mário Centeno says here that the agreements are to be complied with, we record this and we accept no less than that. Thus, we accept no less than: the increase of the national minimum wage in January 2018 to €580 and the increase of the national minimum wage in January 2019 to €600 — no less than that, that is what is agreed. [[Congratulations from BE.]] We also accept no less than changes in the steps of the IRS that take, once and for all, the ghost of Vítor Gaspar and Maria Luís Albuquerque away from the IRS and people's pocket. Therefore, it is necessary to have the courage of, in 2018, not to be aware that anything changes to stay in it and to put your hands to a difficult and demanding work, which is to change the steps of the IRS, in order to eliminate the tax sack of Vítor Gaspar. [[Congratulations from BE.]] It is necessary to ensure that the national programme to combat precariousness, which is a necessary structural reform for the country, is out of role and is implemented in the defence of people's rights. It is also necessary to ensure that those who have worked a whole life, since very young ones, to whom childhood has been denied, know that in this parliamentary majority they may have an answer and that sooner than later they will have that dignity restored by this choice of the parliamentary majority. And we know that it can even be well safeguarded by the Government's own proposal, which is part of the Government's programme, which is the rate of turnover for companies with precarious contracts. Now, if they pay more TSU (unique social rate), more justice we can do to those who have worked a whole life. These are the choices of reforms that the majority of parliament can and should make. But there are other deficits we have to fight, Minister. It is that the imbalances left by the right in our country are still present in public services: the lack of investment in the SNS and the lack of investment in public school are deficits that deny our citizens and citizens rights. And these are deficits we want to attack. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The goals that compromise the Block are those that attack the deficits of inequality in public services and employment. And to these goals, to these commitments the majority of parliament knows that the Block will never be lacking. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u189	The Bureau is quietly awaiting entries from parliamentary groups. [[Pause.]] For an intervention, Mr Carlos César has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u190	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are concluding another debate on reform and stability programmes. We will therefore follow up the reformist medium-term strategy adopted in 2016, with the corrections and innovations considered indispensable, in conjunction with the macroeconomic scenario established in the Stability Programme. For the programmes we are discussing today, the contributions of Parliamentary parties and the social partners have been shared...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u191	Oh, is it? Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u192	... including opposition parties that saw most of their proposals received in the basic documents last year. in fact, and contrary to what the PSD leader said two days ago, in 2016 was not rejected « most of the PSD proposals » — in fact, as the CDS – but, yes, approved most of them: 145 in 244! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is seen that the PSD no longer fails only in the forecasts; it also fails in the accounts of the past! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u193	You can't count!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u194	The commitment, which the PS and the Government undertake, is not that, as the CDS suggests, “to resume the reforms” of the previous Government or to promote the explosion of public expenditure as would result from many of the proposals it submits, but rather to develop the guidelines of the current Government Programme, of adequacy to our condition as members of the European Union and the euro area, of respect for matters agreed with the parties and the social partners and for measures included in the budgetary policies. The credibility we have achieved is not just about the acquisition and therefore it matters how the future will be safeguarded. But for now, the truth is that we have managed to positively reverse negative results and raise the confidence of the most unsuspecting international observers. For what was insufficient and good for people and businesses, our policies were worth. And it was not little that had happened well as a result of good policies and good reforms! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We must therefore continue and move away from the legacy of social and business degradation that has left us. We have, at our credit, in a short time, the highest per capita GDP. The growth of the economy at the end of 2016 was twice as high as the end of 2015. We reached the largest export volume ever, growing in the first two months of this year 13, 8%, when in the same period of 2015 the growth had been null. At the end of 2016, we had the largest investment growth in the last six years, almost eight times higher than in the end of 2015. We had the biggest growth in private investment in the last 16 years, while by the end of 2015 private investment was falling. The number of licensed buildings increased in 2016 for the first time at the end of many years. We have achieved the greatest job creation, at least in the last 18 years, and the number of employees has risen to the highest level of the last five and a half years. The unemployment rate is now the lowest in the last eight years. Consumer confidence is at most over the last 17 years and the economic climate of the last 15 years. The available income of families grew when in the governance of PSD/CDS had fallen 6, 5 %. The public deficit is the lowest in the last 44 years. Net public debt fell for the first time in 2016 at the end of 17 years. And during the PSD government / CDS, net public debt rose every year: + 20, 8 percentage points of GDP! We are therefore very proud of the way in which we are doing and are very committed to doing so with better results. This is our definition of success. It is for these results that we have worked on, and that is what we will continue to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in fact, as Mr Coelho says, « more must be done than administering what is inherited ». Yes, we refuse to administer the legacy of poverty, the legacy of bankruptcy, to live up to unemployment, to conform to the greatest tax burden ever, and now continue the fiscal relief path initiated in 2016. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Let us reverse what was excessive, innovate what was possible and necessary, and the balance is positive for people and businesses just because we reject the inherited policies of the past. The PSD leader says he only listens to "speak of rest and increases, as if Totoloto had left us". But what we're going to be able to get out of is what you, then Prime Minister, did not leave: the prison of social hardship and the European prison of excessive deficit procedure! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have committed ourselves, with an innovative impetus, to the implementation of the National Reform Programme. That is, in the qualification of the Portuguese population, where we are working on several fronts, since the freeness of the school textbooks of the 1. the cycle to the expansion of preschool, to the promotion of school success, to the qualification of adults, to scientific employment, to the recovery of investment in culture or to the implementation of the National Digital Skills Initiative. in these, as in other dimensions, we were walking backwards and reverse that path. in promoting innovation in the economy, for example, more than 400 projects were supported within Startup Portugal, but the challenges focus on the transfer of knowledge and innovation to the productive tissue, the stimulus to export with high added value and the development of tourism. in valuing the territory, we looked, with eyes to see, for Portugal as a whole: territorial cohesion, railway, energy sector approach, the resumption of the priority of the sea economy, forest reform, the bet on urban rehabilitation, the strategic enhancement of the island dimension are assumed and emphasized in reformist policy. In this regard, I cannot fail to stress the need to invest, socially and economically more effectively, in housing to contain one of the heavier factors of social marginalization in our country. in modernizing the state, in addition to procedural simplification, decision-making transparency and measures in the area of justice, political decentralization is the structuring project. in the capitalisation of companies, we stated two priorities: the revision of the legal framework of its restructuring and the solution of misappropriated credit, of course, the stabilization of the banking sector, which left us behind, and the increase in the contribution of European funds. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are committed to strengthening cohesion and social equality, and we remind the Government of the importance of combating youth poverty, improving access to health care and affirming gender equality. I would point out, by the way, that, as far as the labour market is concerned, if it is true that the time and the known effects advise all caution on the consideration of changes to labour law, it is important to continue on a path of confidence-building between employees and employers. All measures, whether at the level of labour rights in general or specifically remuneration rights, including minimum remuneration measures, should continue to be carefully monitored and evaluated in their results, in order not to affect the generating capacities of more and better jobs and, in excess and downstream, of more and better enterprises. The way forward in these areas by the Government and the parliamentary majority that decided on these matters confers the necessary sustainability. We must have the constant wisdom to understand and make it clear that protecting jobs is protecting businesses and protecting the competitiveness of companies is protecting the national economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I conclude by saying that there is still much to be thought and done to rehabilitate the social dimension and the trust affected by the management of the previous government. We can say that we have presented reform programmes and estimates and goals that contrast with the erratic trend of the past, by presenting a reformist strategy and a finally stable and credible stability programme. In summary, the results are good: we prepare for a better future, Portugal prestigious abroad and Portuguese finally count for Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u195	For one last intervention in this debate, Mr Miguel Morgado, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let me start by paying the courtesy of the Left Block. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares always has this tendency to talk about the PSD before expressing his positions. In his speech he was very vehemently speaking of the parliamentary majority versus the opposition, the opposition being the CDS and the PSD, and he wanted Mr to remove the logical consequence of his own words: the opposition, PSD and CDS, it is against the government and the parliamentary majority is responsible for what is approved, what is executed,... [[PSD applause.]] ... and, therefore, the Left Block is as responsible for the approval and implementation of the Stability Programme as the PS, the PCP and the Greens. It was good for you to remove this logical consequence.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u197	The PCP is the PCP, it is no parliamentary majority!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u198	But, after so many numbers that have been advanced and rejected here, there are two numbers that are still worth talking about, since they are indisputable to me. The first issue is the government's « zero » of strategic coherence. in the beginning, there was the wandering idea that the stimulus to consumption would bring economic prosperity and, finally, the failure of this option, the failure of this route is not recognized in the words of the government, it is true, but it is recognized in the Stability Programme itself. The PSD first warned that the path was through exports and investment and now we have this silent confession expressed in the Stability Programme. Unfortunately, we have spent a year being guinea pigs from this economic spell from stimulating consumption. I did not use the expressions "journal idea" and "pigs" by chance, since these are the expressions that the leader of the opposition and current Prime Minister used to describe what was a failed policy of cuts in public investment, when he said that there would be no economic growth without the significant increase in public investment. My colleague Duarte Pacheco has already mentioned these words as a whole, but he has forgotten the last sentence, in which Dr. António Costa said at the time that we were being guinea pigs for this failed policy. Now, what this Stability Program offers, after the biggest public investment cut that there is memory in 2016, is another five years of public investment less than it was recorded in such failed policy of PSD / CDS governments. If this isn't a doll, it's more than a doll, it's a fatal jump. There is another issue which is still worth focusing on, which is the "zero" of reforms. It is already a ritual in some strange way that the government presents a national reform plan without any structural reform. But this is important, because it brings us to a question perhaps more essential than the discussion of the Stability Programme, which is the one we have today present in Portuguese society two well-differented political projects: one, represented by the PS, supported, temporarily or not, by the most radical left ones, and the other, represented by the PSD. on the side of the PS, we have a project of hegemonic power...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u199	O Miguel, say something!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u200	... and heritageist, who has as defining the unforgettable « those who mess with the PS leads » and « the state money is the PS ».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u201	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u202	It is a hegemonic and heritageist power project that aims to create relationships of dependence and, ultimately, to make us all dependent on the ruling party. on the side of the PSD, we have the opposite project of limiting power, of all powers, of political and economic powers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u203	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u204	... for the liberation and autonomy of civil society and the economy, including the independence of the institutions. on the side of the PS and the left, we have the sectarian ideological agendas, which are nothing more than bubbles of irreality and secret desires of catastrophic social engineering. on the side of the PSD, we have the project of reformist modernization of the country, using the common sense, balance, basic data of the life experience of Portuguese, companies, associations and their institutions. [[PS protests.]] on the side of the PS, we have the pure and simple management of the most immediate time, from day to day of the agenda of the ruling party, as if the country did not have one yesterday nor had one tomorrow. on the side of the PSD, we have the preservation of memory, which here is attracted to each plenary session, we have care with the present and preparation of the country's future. With regard to these fundamental differences between two completely distinct political projects, there will be neither a place for mutual perception errors. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-19.u205	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us therefore close this debate. The agenda for tomorrow's sitting, beginning at 3 p.m., consists of six points. First, there will be the joint debate, in general, of the proposals of lein. 65 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter the legal regime applicable to logging and re-arborrowing actions, 66 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates the national land bank and land mobilization fund 67 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates tax benefits for forest management entities by amending the Statute for Tax Benefits and the Rules of Procedure for Registration and Notary, 68 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Change the National Forest Defense System against Fires and 69 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Create a simplified cadastral information system ( replaced text at the request of the author) and the projects of lein.o 464 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establishs a legal regime for logging, re-arboring or afforestation ( BE) and 500 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates the public agricultural land bank ( BE ). Secondly, law No 63 / XIII ( 2 ) will generally be discussed. ( a ) — Approves the European Criminal Investigation Decision by transposing Directive 2014 / 41 / EU. Thirdly, the proposal for law No 64/ XIII ( 2 ) will be discussed in general. ( a ) — Regulates the Lophoscopic and photographic judicial identification. Fourthly, the draft law No. 484 / XIII ( 2 ) will be discussed in general. ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 5 / 2008 of 12 February 2008 approving the creation of a database of DNA profiles for civil and criminal identification purposes and the first amendment to Law No 40 / 2013 of 25 June approving the Law on the Organization and Operation of the DNA Profile Database Monitoring Board ( PSD ). Fifthly, there will be a joint assessment of draft resolutions Nos 774 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote and enhance the practice of physical and sporting activity by creating a status of the student sportsman ( PS ) and 799 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a student-sport status, ensuring social and academic rights and valuing sport practice ( BE ). Finally, together, petition No 139 / XIII ( 1 ) will be considered. a ) — They intend to build a new building for the West Hospital Centre / EPE, based in Torres Vedras (António Martins Moreira et al.) and draft resolution No 802 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government define a set of policies that invert the current situation at the West Hospital Centre ( PS ). I wish to all and to all the continuation of a good afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 33 minutes.]]
