ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, I declare open the session. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. Mrs. Members, let us start our work with a CDS-PP marking, a current debate under Article 72. that of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, on the increase in fuel tax. To open the debate, you have the floor on behalf of the CDS Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Mota Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In February 2016, before an oil price, historically and transiently low, the government decided to increase the tax on gasoline and diesel in 6 cents. When the government presented this increase, it was justified to say that it did so with a view to tax neutrality, i.e. that increased fuel tax to recover what was being lost in revenue from VAT ( value added tax ). On the day of the submission of this measure, the Minister of Finance promised the Portuguese that the increase in the tax on petrol and gasoline would compensate, and I quote, "(...) exactly what has been lost in VAT. « The principle is that of fiscal neutrality ». On February 12, 2016, the Prime Minister, in this Chamber, promised that the fiscal neutrality of the increase in fuel taxes would always occur. On February 18, the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, present today, affirmed the same principle, and I quote: "This is our commitment, and that is what we intend to do: to maintain fiscal neutrality". Until the ineffable Mr Galamba, one of his heated interventions, said that the tax had been calibrated in order to have prices below what existed on 1 January 2016. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We know today that the fiscal neutrality that the government has announced does not occur. We have asked the Government several questions which have always failed to answer a very simple question: how much was the State losing in VAT revenue and how much was the State earning with this overtax on fuel taxes? It had to be UTAO (Technical Budget Support Unit), an independent unit, to do a study with the following conclusion: in 2016 the tax on petrol and diesel rose 313 million euros and the tax revenue on fuels fell only 65 million euros, meaning that this increase in taxes was all less neutral, either for the coffers of the State or for the pockets of the Portuguese. This also means that this increase in taxes meant a sack of almost EUR 250 million to taxpayers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u3	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u4	I repeat: EUR 250 million taken from families who need the car in their daily lives; EUR 250 million weighing on public transport, which this year increased on average 1, 5 %, well above inflation last year; EUR 250 million taken from companies that need to deliver their goods, receive their raw materials and transport their workers. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It happens that oil is no longer low today. Today, compared to January 2016, gasoline costs more than 19 cents per litre and diesel costs more than 23 cents per litre. For a Portuguese who attests the car with 60 liters of gas oil the invoice is 14 euros more expensive than before this increase in taxes, and for this it contributes not only the rise of the price of oil but also, and much, the rise of the tax burden on fuels, which is today one of the highest at European level. This adds to the breakdown of the government's promise to revise the tax rate quarterly in order to lower the price paid by taxpayers. It was a first word that was given and that has already been dishonored by this government this year. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The fact is that after the creation of this overtax on fuels, in each litre of gas oil, 56 % of the price is for taxes and, in each litre of gasoline, 63 % of the price goes directly to the Ministry of Finance. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is no longer any justification for maintaining this increase in taxes unless it is the government's and whoever supports it. The so-called principle of fiscal neutrality, after all, was a tax sack of EUR 250 million to Portuguese taxpayers. It is for this reason that the CDS denounced this increase, that is why the CDS has always been against this overtax and if, today, the Portuguese are paying more when they are going to supply a gas bomb this is due to a wrong option of the Government, supported in this Parliament by the Socialist Party, the Communist Party, the Left Block and the Green Green Party which, for three times, have dropped our proposals to eliminate this increase in taxes. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with this debate, what the CDS today wants to know about the government is just this: will the government eliminate this overtax on gas and gas tax? Is the government going to fulfill what you promised the Portuguese? Will the government honor the word? Or is it, once again, given word, tax charged, broken promise? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u5	You have the floor, on behalf of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, to comply.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I read with great interest the UTAO report that you have just mentioned and I must say that it shows some things that the government has said from the outset because at the time the government increased the price of fuels, prices were historically low and, during 2016, on average, prices for sales to the public of fuels, even with the increase of the ISP ( tax on oil and energy products ), were lower than they had been in 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u7	Miracle!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u8	In fact, they were lower than they had been when the previous government increased the tax burden on fuels, making the price borne by consumers higher at the time. And at this time of great effort, the government increased this tax burden without Mr Pedro Mota Soares, at the time, having'removed his clothes' around that increase in the tax burden. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the other hand, it should be noted that the Government has made this increase a year ago in a context of a State budget where the recovery of the tax burden has led to a global reduction in the tax burden, as we have also insisted from the outset and how it is widely proven today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] More: the government at the time—and indeed I myself in the interview which you referred to— has committed itself to the following: a revenue is being established in the budget of the fuel-derived State, if fuel prices increase, VAT revenue would also increase and then it would be possible to lower the ISP in the exact proportion of the rise of that VAT, because this would guarantee fiscal neutrality throughout the year. And this is precisely what the government did throughout 2016: it dropped 2 cents of the gas tax and 1 cent of the gas tax, which, in fact, surprisingly, was the first time that happened in Portugal. Therefore, the government has maintained its commitment. Moreover, the Government has done what no previous government had done and that it was essential to ensure the competitiveness of domestic exporting and transport industries: it has created a professional gas oil regime, which allows long-term transport in Portugal to pay the minimum tax in Portugal, exactly the same tax that exists in Spain, thus drastically reducing transport costs. Therefore, Mr President, the Government has fulfilled its commitment, the Government has taken this measure sensibly and, moreover, the Government has also taken the measures which have been discussed for many years and which have never been implemented, measures to ensure that the Portuguese State's policy, in terms of fuel taxes, is not negatively reflected in the competitiveness of the Portuguese industry. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u9	For an intervention, Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD Parliamentary Group welcomes the initiative of the CDS-PP, by marking this debate on the increase in the price of fuels, which is another case showing the Government's lack of transparency and genuineness. This debate reminds us of the reasons that led to the increase in ISP in 2016. Since fuel prices were historically low, it was necessary to compensate for the loss of tax revenue both from ISP and VAT, but there was a promise that there would be quarterly revisions from ISP. We can already conclude from this that you have repeatedly failed in this promise. They created quarterly revisions of the ISP, which, however, ended and the only revisions that Portuguese currently know are the revisions of the increases of the ISP, as happened, for example, with the increase in the price of fuels on Monday. You created these reviews and, in fact, ended up finishing them. Portugal is currently one of the most expensive countries in the world. But because of the increase in the ISP, under a alleged fiscal neutrality, the government here also deceived the Portuguese brazenly, and it is not the PSD that says so, it is not the CDS that says so, it is the suspicion that the ISP revenue has largely exceeded the revenue of the lost VAT. In other words, the increase in the ISP was not to compensate for the loss of tax revenue, it was to help compose the budget implementation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u11	And the government should have the courage to assume here that this was the goal.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u12	That's asking a lot!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u13	But the parties that support the government also bear these increases and are complicit with the fact that every day families and businesses have to bear these gross increases that we had in the ISP. I know that these parties, particularly the PCP and the Left Block, have changed their mind, but let me remind you of what he said, for example not long ago, it was not 10 years ago, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block, in 2014 : « (...) increases the tax burden on indirect taxes, which are plans. And that is in fact the old policy of taxing more to those who have less.'
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u14	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u15	They will all pay these new taxes, with the aggravating increase in indirect taxes to deepen tax injustice, since these taxes do not take account of taxpayer income. """""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""" """""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""" I would like to echo the words of these two Members of these two parties, with the difference that we have not changed our opinion, but the left parties have changed and have been silent and have voted alongside the government for the maintenance of these ISP increases. And the increase in ISP is socially unfair, penalizes to the same extent an unemployed or a millionaire, is a blind tax! Therefore, the PSD challenges the government to go back to this brutal increase, which penalises Portuguese families and companies on a daily basis. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u16	Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u17	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Today we are facing a unique moment in Parliament and perhaps even extraordinary, because there is a party asking for an urgent debate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u18	Presently!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u19	... marked with a dozen hours in advance, to address the issue of fuel increase when fuels fall. It's, in fact, an unusual one! Mr President, at the time when you marked the debate, it is news that fuel prices are going to fall next week.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u20	What went up was the taxes!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u21	So there is nothing — there is nothing! — to justify this debate. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Pedro Mota Soares.]] Mr President, allow me to tell you that in my own country it is called 'to shoot at the foot', from bazouca, Mr Member! [[PS Member Filipe Neto Brandão's laughs.]] That is what you have done with this debate! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, allow me to tell you the following: the interventions of the PSD and the CDS are, in fact, unusual and we are asking for thanks for this debate, because it allows us to clarify, once and for all, two aspects in which you insist, insist and insist, the first aspect being the increase of fuels in 2016. By the way, the UTAO report, and you did not mention it, concludes something that I think is important for the Portuguese, which is the fact that the fuels, from 2015 to 2016, have dropped: it dropped gasoline 4, 5 % and lowered gas 4, 4 %. This is what matters to the Portuguese! [[P.S.'s applause.]] But the gentlemen. Members have also made it possible to clarify something very important in this debate, because once again they insist, insist and insist on one more lie: the increase in tax burden. Mrs. Members, this time it was not UTAO, it was the INE ( National Institute of Statistics ), which has also concluded and has already shown that the tax burden, in 2016, has decreased. It didn't increase, it went down! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It increased from 25, 4 % to 25 % of GDP (gross domestic product ), i.e. reduced by EUR 740 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u22	The PSD sees everything the opposite!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u23	Well, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you can't say something and you can't say otherwise. It cannot be said that it has lowered what has increased and that it has increased what has decreased. That means lying to the Portuguese! So the first words I want to say to you are the following: Thank you very much for this debate, because it allows us to clarify to the Portuguese that in 2016 the tax burden has lowered and helped the Portuguese and that the fuels have decreased, which also helped the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's what the government wanted, that's what the government promised and that's what it did, Mr. We don't dishonor our word and we don't use lies...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u24	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u25	...to honor the word, or the pseudoword, that you are trying to pass. I'll finish by saying that the ladies. Members are obsessed with fiscal policy within the framework of fuels. Mr. Secretary of State has already underlined and I repeat again: in 2016, the government applied far more measures than fiscal policy. And today, the Portuguese actually have lower fuels, because they have an adequate and balanced fiscal policy, and they have more measures that have helped companies' competitiveness, help.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u26	Just like that! [[PSD and CDS-PP laughter and protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u27	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what's your problem? What didn't you guys get? What didn't you guys get? [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u28	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to let the speaker finish his speech. I was really finishing up, if I understood correctly.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u29	I'd like to finish...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u30	Please, Mr. Carlos Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u31	Mr President, the fact that the party that was responsible for the greatest tax increase in the history of Portugal — a colossal increase in taxes — is being outraged by our party having reduced taxes is absolutely extraordinary. It's extraordinary! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] But I end by saying that we did what was competing with us: we helped families, we reduced the price of fuels...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u32	Have they reduced the price of fuel? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u33	...and we helped companies, ensuring adequate fuels for the competitiveness of the economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u34	The Bureau no longer registers for interventions on this point, although there are several parliamentary groups that have not yet exercised the right to intervene. [[Pause.]] Mr Heitor de Sousa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u35	Mr President, I do not know whether this urgent debate has been to stir up the Chamber if, again, to draw some conclusions on fuel tax policy. The CDS highlighted this current debate on the increase in taxes on petroleum products and we thought that today we would be attending the presentation by the CDS of a new proposal on tax policy on fuels. Only that the CDS made exactly the same speech that it has been making over a year and a half ago on this subject, it has not introduced anything new at all and, from the point of view of changing fiscal policy, it simply defends the same measure it has consistently defended. The demonstration of the UTAO report does not help at all what the CDS allegedly defended from the rostrum, which is the decrease in the ISP. This is because, if the UTAO report confirms that in 2016 there was a general reduction in the average selling price to the public of fuels, then this reduction does not justify defending, at this very time, a change in tax policy. On the contrary, the tax policy was not to prevent the reduction of the average selling price to the public, but was to follow that same reduction. Anyway, the argument that MP Margarida Balsairo Lopes of the PSD used in her speech is false because, and we are all reminded of this, the PSD and CDS, when they were in the government, invented a new tax, the carbon fund, which, added to the oil product tax, increased the tax burden in the country on fuels.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u36	And the gentlemen have already eliminated it?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u37	Therefore, it is false that the PSD and the CDS have adopted a tax policy to reduce the weight of taxes in the price of selling fuels. Even if the carbon rate was used to finance public transport, for example, or to influence the introduction of professional gas oil in companies whose main activity is the distribution and use of road transport, if this had been the case, then this policy could still be called 'green taxation', because it would help to change the transport profile, whether it be goods or passengers, at the level of the Portuguese economy. But none of this happened. The so-called 'green taxation' focused only on the increase in the price of fuels and nothing has changed in terms of transport policy, in terms of taxation policy, which favours the most environmentally sustainable options. If this amendment had happened, we could be discussing today a new way of using fuel taxation as a way to change the profile of the fuel and also choices in terms of demand for transport, both at the level of goods and at the level of passengers. thus, it would be possible to start to promote transport options in order to become more environmentally friendly and, above all, more sustainable in terms of economic and environmental future. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u38	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The CDS continues to do what it can at the level of acrobatic gymnastics to try to erase from the Portuguese memory the gross tax increases it approved with the PSD in the previous government. They continue the pirouettes, the prawns and the flic-flac at the rear...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u40	Mr Bruno will still get a hernia with this government cop-flac!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u41	... to see if people forget that the CDS and PSD, as a government, imposed the increase in tax burden on fuels as well as not in a historically low price frame, as in 2016, but in 2014, at a high price. That is, when consumers were already being penalized, they were confronted with an even more serious sacrifice by the PSD/CDS government, with the carbon rate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u42	And you forget that you support this government!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u43	We were in 2014 and Mr. Mota Soares was where? He was in the Council of Ministers approving the measures.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u44	Now look at it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u45	These discussions, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, they must be done with seriousness and consistency. And what was said and defended in 2014, in 2011 and in previous years, should be reaffirmed today by those who made their statements. The CFP today reaffirms what it has always said on this subject: the tax burden on fuels is penalizing consumers, for populations, for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u46	The tax burden on fuels has already been penalizing and heavy for many years, and it has not been so in 2017, not even in 2014, it is the result of the practice that has been followed by successive governments and that it continues to feel about the populations, businesses and productive sectors. The CFP does not ignore or accept as critique-free the decision taken to withdraw the tax compensation mechanism within the framework of the ISP and defends that this mechanism should, and should, continue to be maintained and implemented. We have affirmed at the time that it would be an insufficient and timely but positive measure and that it would be an important and remarkable step forward that should be maintained. We reaffirm today what we said then, we don't go on cans and pirouettes like the CDS and PSD. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Furthermore, the CFP, in this legislature as in the previous one, has systematically presented proposals and measures, both within the budget or in its own legislative initiatives, in order to reduce the costs, on the populations and businesses, of this energy bill, which is a real waste for the economic activity and for the lives of people. We have presented measures and I would like to remind you, in particular, one that we have recently proposed to reduce the mandatory incorporation of biofuels, which would allow at least 2 cents to be reduced in the final selling price to the public, and which the PS, PSD and CDS rejected.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u47	Now look at it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u48	Again we say that, unlike the PSD and CDS, we are not doing pirouettes or canballs. Finally, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we would like to point out that, in these discussions, there is always one aspect which is forgotten in the speeches of the Members. Members of the CDS and PSD, which is the problem of the average price before fuel taxes in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u49	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u50	Once again, there are those who consider a kind of taboo the problem of fuel prices before taxes and the unacceptable situation, which continues to make one feel in Portugal, this extraordinary thing, which is in our country, on average and before taxes, prices in petrol 95 of 2, 7 cents / liters and in road gas oil of 3, 2 cents / liter above the euro area average.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u51	But in the oil fields they don't want to move!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u52	But then they present in 2016, as Galp's profits, the beautiful sum of 483 million euros.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u53	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u54	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this cannot be a taboo, this cannot be an untouchable matter. When we talk about price policy, about fuels, and when we talk about own ownership and public control over the energy sector, we cannot have a demagogic discussion and political hypocrisy around issues that go along with the essential issues of energy policy and options for fuels in our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u55	Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: I have heard Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs very carefully, but I have not heard an answer to the question that the CDS has put. Mr. Secretary of State drew up several considerations on the increase in taxes, but did not answer the essential question. The Secretary of State said, at the time, and I quote: "What we wanted was to have fiscal neutrality for taxpayers but also for the State." So if, according to UTAO, because Mr. Secretary of State did not provide the figures, you lost EUR 65 million in VAT and collected more than EUR 313 million in gas and gas taxes, where is this neutral? The question is very simple: is it actually going to fulfill the given word and return 250 million euros that you collected more in a tax that was not neutral? Oh, my God! If the tax motivation was another, then why did you deceive the Portuguese and went on to say that the goal was neutrality? Oh, my God! In fact, it was not only Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Prime Minister also said so. But I quote once again, Mr Secretary of State : « (...) maintain tax neutrality by replacing VAT with ISP (...) ». Mr Secretary of State, where is 65 million replaced by 313 million neutral? Oh, my God! This is such a simple question that we want to get answers. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u57	VAT revenue is down!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u58	He's down!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u59	Mr. Carlos Pereira came here to accuse us of lying. Mr President, there is one thing I cannot understand: then, if today gasoline is 19 cents more expensive than it was on January 4, 2016 and diesel is 23 cents more expensive than it was at that time, how is the price, from the taxpayer's point of view, from the citizen's point of view, from the point of view of those who, every day, use gasoline and gasoline, dropped? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u60	He's down!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u61	And the honourable Member here accuses us of lying? Oh, my God! Do you promise neutrality and collect more than 250 million euros of tax and say that the price has fallen and he has actually gone up here accusing others of lying? Oh, my God! Mr President, which certainly voted these increases in the State budget on the basis of what the Government was saying now that this does not happen after all, there is only one thing to do: eliminate this increase!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u62	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u63	I haven't read the UTAO report!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u64	And, of course, you will have this opportunity, indeed, this is the opportunity, because we already know that there was no neutrality and that it was all a mistake. So please withdraw the measure! It's as simple as this! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u65	I now give the floor to the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS came to say that I did not answer a question, which really did not ask me, made it now. When I intervened, except error, there were no questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u67	There, there! There was a question and very concrete!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u68	As regards the return of taxes to the Portuguese, I refer to the number mentioned earlier by Mr Carlos Pereira. No, the government did not lower the tax burden by 200 million, as Mrs Cecilia Meireles asked, but really in the triple.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u69	It's increased!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u70	What's going on? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u71	The tax burden in the country dropped the equivalent of about 700 million euros. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u72	No one's been talking about tax burden!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u73	And, yes, Mrs Deputies, I must say, and I assume - with great frontality, that if it is to further reduce the tax burden, as we intend, in this Budget and next year, I do not think it should be in this tax that this tax burden should be reduced, it should be reduced in other taxes. Yes, this is the priority the government takes. As regards the effects on the economy, I am again saying what I said in my initial speech: this Government took the initiative, which no other government had taken, not only to immunise the long-term freight transport sector with regard to this increase but also to withdraw even all the tax that it is possible to withdraw to this sector, leading to minimum Community taxation, so that the export of goods by road in Portugal pays the minimum tax that is possible. Thus, a distortion, introduced by taxation, was removed between Portuguese companies, Spanish companies or French companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u74	To request clarification, Mrs Cecilia Meireles was registered. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u75	Mr President, Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, I still do not hear an answer to the question. The question is very simple: you said'maintain tax neutrality' and, of two, you will either do what you said and you will eliminate this increase or you will apologize for saying something that is simply not true. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u76	To reply, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u77	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, this is not the first time, nor the second time, nor the third and doubt that it is the last, that the CDS does not correctly characterize the statements of the other people to accuse them of lying,... [[CDS-PP laughter.]] ... which, in fact, is a tendency of disrespect for the truth that accompanies the CDS bench. [[CDS-PP protests.]] What is in my interview is very simple: during the State Budget for 2016 there was a forecast of tax revenue and, throughout this Budget, it was possible, in neutrality, whenever the price of fuels increased, to lower the amount of the ISP because the increase in VAT compensated it. The Government has undertaken to do so throughout the implementation of the 2016 Budget and, by maintaining fiscal neutrality, has lowered the ISP by 2 cents in gasoline and 1 cent in gasoline, fulfilling its commitment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u78	Did Mr Nuno Magalhães sign up for an appeal to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u79	It has to do with the distribution of documents, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u80	Please say what is the document you want to distribute, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u81	Mr President, the Secretary of State has just accused the CDS of truncating other people's statements. Now, because it is a serious charge, Mr President would like to be able to distribute documents with statements by Mr. Prime Minister on 12 February 2016, guaranteeing fiscal neutrality, statements by Mr. Secretary of State Rocha Andrade, already this year, statements by Minister Mário Centeno, also this year, guaranteeing fiscal neutrality, and finally — the last but not the least the least – what the Office of the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs has sent back as a reply from the Office of the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs through the Ministry of Finance, to a question put by the CDS, where, in paragraph 1, the Office of the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs once again ensures fiscal neutrality. It was these four documents that I would like Mr President to distribute, so we can see who's lying, who's telling the truth and who's lying. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u82	It's the CDS, of course! No one has any doubts!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u83	Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One of the characteristics of this government is the lack of courage to take up its options and the lack of seriousness with which the debates take place. That is, they increase taxes on certain products, and it is for health reasons and not because they need revenue; they forgive the bank, in a loan from the Resolution Fund, but do not have the courage to take on; and, in this case, they make a tax increase, but do not have the courage to say that they need the revenue to achieve certain goals. Other governments have increased taxes—it is true! — but they assumed that they were making this tax increase because they had goals to achieve. But this government never does, it happens by chance! And, therefore, I lie brazenly to the Portuguese and try to deceive the Portuguese on all matters. [[PS protests.]] That is why, Mr Secretary of State, what we have here is very simple: UTAO shows that in oil products you have raised more than EUR 250 million from what was originally planned and would be in equal terms for the same quantities. This shows that you have made an increase in the tax burden on petroleum products by EUR 250 million, which is what the Portuguese pay more — that is the truth! — with the complicity of the Left Block and the PCP, which can give the pirouettes and the prawns who want this to be the real fact: families pay more and you have to take it, because it is your choice! Have the courage, once in life, as they are government, to take up your options and your responsibilities! Don't run away, don't hide! That is what should be done in democracy and you have not had the courage to do, which is regrettable.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u85	We're here!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u86	So we can only say that austerity is not over, austerity has changed. Yes, it's changed! They can lower the tax to, but they increase the tax b. This is the truth of the facts! And the parties who once criticized indirect taxes on the generality of the Portuguese, today, shut up and find themselves well, find themselves right. Everything they do to stay in power!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u87	Oh! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u88	They may say something different here to try to deceive their electorate, but at the right time they vote for everything the government presents. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u89	It confuses you!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u90	Mr Luís Moreira Testa now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This debate essentially serves to demonstrate the passion of Mr Pedro Mota Soares for hydrocarbons. In fact, it is curious that an athlete has come, this passion so crushed by hydrocarbons, even above, with a "basca" on his back turned to his feet. [[PS Members' laughs.]] I must say that this debate is essentially a truth: the honourable Members. CDS members bring us this matter, identifying the 2017 numbers, still early, because the year has not finished yet, wanting to discuss a reality of 2016. And the reality of 2016 is simple, mathematical and demonstrable: the prices of selling to the public of fuels have fallen,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u92	Have they gone down or have they gone up? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u93	...has come down to a full extent, either in the gas oil, or in the gasoline. But, in fact, still resorting to the provisional forecasts of the CDS, I must say that the Socialist Party is quite confident that we will end the year 2017 with a significant reduction in fuel prices, as is demonstrated by the news that, successively, are brought to the public. More: I am afraid that Mr Pedro Mota Soares' « bazouca » will bring the tiracolo not to his feet but to the feet of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u94	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u95	Mr Duarte Pacheco says that it is true that « other governments have increased taxes», it is true,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u96	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u97	...but what is more true is that there was a government that did nothing but increase taxes, and that government was that of the PSD. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u98	Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We were waiting for this debate to start discussing and reflecting on a change in tax policy on fuels, but unfortunately the CDS seems to want to invest against the wall. I don't know if you're trying to do some road vehicle safety test, influencing some of the tests that are being done in Autoeuropa,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u100	What? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u101	...but the truth is, from the point of view of novelty, the CDS said nothing, said zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u102	Ah! I was talking about unionist Antonio Chora!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u103	Indeed, what this debate calls for is to reflect on an issue which, I believe, from the point of view of fiscal policy, deserves to be discussed here in Parliament. It is that the reorientation of transport demand can be made using tax policy on fuels as an instrument, provided tax revenues are oriented towards the promotion of public transport,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u104	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u105	... either at the level of passenger transport or at the level of freight transport. And it's in line with the change...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u106	Mr President, you must conclude, you have exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u107	...of the search profile I think it is worth changing the tax policy on fuels. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u108	Mr Bruno Dias, who has very little time, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The position of the CFP is clear in this debate. We have affirmed in this discussion what we have been defending over the years, in particular about the specific aspect under discussion. With regard to the intervention which the CDS is going to make now, we left only the request or the challenge for which it could explain — perhaps this time — why it voted in favour of the carbon rate in the Government, which increased the tax burden on fuels, in a situation of high prices without parallel and why it continues to ignore and pass completely alongside the millionaire profits of oil...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u110	They'll explain!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u111	... and the average prices before taxes, above, far above the average of the European Union. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u112	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: We call for this debate to have a very concrete response from the Government which the Government has not yet given. The Government, through the mouth of the Prime Minister, the Minister of Finance, the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs of the Deputy Minister, has always promised the Portuguese that the increase in tax on petrol and gas oil was with fiscal neutrality, i.e. that he wanted to recover in ISP what the State was losing in VAT. UTAO told us very clearly in a study that it presented, that this increase was all less neutral. It was all less neutral for taxpayers, who paid more than 250 million euros, all less neutral for the state's coffers, which raised more than 250 million euros. So this debate is also a debate about the word and some political hypocrisy, which permeates this bench, of parties that were against the increase in fuel taxes... [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] ... but that at the moment they are strictly silent and next to the government. [[Congrats from PS MP João Galamba.]] And Mr Galamba, who is now beating hands,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u114	Hypocrisy permeates that bench!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u115	...it was the deputy who said...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u116	It's the other Galamba talking!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u117	... that this tax increase would be neutral, would be at the level of 1 January 2016. [[PS and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u118	He's a big liar, Galamba!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u119	I'm asking the ladies. Members to let Mr. Pedro Mota Soares finish the intervention...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u120	The wise Galamba mind! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u121	Please continue, Mr Pedro Mota Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u122	That is why, Mr President, I am going to quote Mr Galamba :
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u123	The wise Galamba.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u124	... the tax « has been calibrated so that prices are less than 1 January », 2016. It happens that today, gasoline is 19 cents more expensive than it was on January 1, 2016...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u125	Knock your hands!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u126	...and gas oil 23 cents more expensive.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u127	Knock your hands!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u128	He can't read!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u129	At this moment, it is clear that Mr Galamba should in fact apologize for what he has said.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u130	Right now!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u131	Mr President, I take this opportunity to announce that we will present in this House a legislative initiative to immediately eliminate this increase in taxes, requiring the Government to keep the word it has given and requiring all political parties that support it to define itself. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u132	We will move on to the second point of our agenda, with the appreciation of the projects of lein.os 499 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Nationalisation of the social capital of the New Bank, SA ( BE ) and 504 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Determines the integration of the New Bank into the banking public sector and defines its conditions ( PCP ), in general, and draft resolutions 798 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Dissatisfaction by the New Bank's sales decision without consulting the Assembly of the Republic ( BE ), 804 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Determines the integration of the New Bank into the public banking sector ( PCP ) and 806 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government renegotiate the conditions of the State loan to the New Bank Resolution Fund ( PSD ). To present the project of the Block of Left, you have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are two issues that deserve debate and emphasis on the sale of the New Bank. One has to do with how the debate and decision took place and the other has to do with the content or substance of that sale decision. As regards the form, what is to be said is that this decision should have been taken in the Assembly of the Republic. I said that several times, we challenged the government to do so, ensuring that the Block would not be out of a solution that would preserve the public control of the bank, the interests of the state and the economy in the long term. That was not the position of the Government, it did not bring that decision to the Assembly of the Republic, it was wrong not to do so, and that leads us to the second question, which has to do with the content of the decision. The sale, which the Government has taken and which has not brought to the Assembly of the Republic, is objectively bad for the country. It delivers the bank to an abutre fund, compromises the State's financial resources up to EUR 3890 million in the future, without this being the state's shareholding control of its participation of 25 %. But this, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, would you ask us a second question: would there be any sales that were good? Knowing that the New Bank already has 3900 million public money, courtesy of the PSD and CDS, knowing that the accounts of the New Bank are quite different from those that have been presented, courtesy of the PSD and CDS, knowing that the buyer knows that the state is pressured by Brussels to sell the New Bank within a limited period, also this courtesy of the PSD and CDS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u134	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u135	...it's because we know this, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not enough, as the PSD and the CDS have tried to do in this debate, to pretend that they have nothing to do with the matter and to tell us that they do not want a sale, because they will certainly have to admit that this is a position which is of some political futility, insofar as it does not enshrine a proposal, a solution or an alternative. What the Block does here today is the opposite, it presents a proposal, a solution and an alternative, saying that it counters to a sale, that it can never be a good sale in these conditions, the nationalization and the public control of the bank, because only that prevents the bank from being handed over to an abutre fund, but does not leave the bank hanging, without having a destination, without having a purpose, without having a design for the country. We therefore propose a bill with the Nationalization of the New Bank, in which the Assembly of the Republic takes power in its hands and decides that the New Bank moves into the public sphere, certainly assuming its costs in the short term, but knowing that in the long term the State and the Country have control over the one that is still one of the most important financial institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u136	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u137	These are the contributions that the Bloc leaves for this debate and it also hopes to receive the contributions of the other parties. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u138	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD and CDS committed themselves to the sale of the New Bank to European institutions. They have implemented a resolution measure, of which they have only paid the first benefit — in fact concealing future costs — and the current government has decided to continue this commitment, to meet the commitment which the PSD and the CDS had made against the public interest and in some way against the existence of the New Bank itself, because nothing guarantees the existence of the New Bank in terms of a sale such as that which we are currently seeing being prepared. The CFP stated, from the very first moment, that the solution was the nationalization and integration of the bank into the public sphere, its public control—including the nationalization of other components of the Espírito Santo Group—but also declared, from the very first moment, that, when the conditions of this sale were announced, it would bring to the Assembly of the Republic proposals that would allow the sale to be stopped to determine the integration of the New Bank into the banking public sector. It did so in February of this year — this proposal was rejected by PS, PSD and CDS — and do so now that you know more about a business that is disastrous. The CFP proposes that the State take control of the New Bank, ownership control and management control because the New Bank is important in financing the economy because the New Bank has a role with small and medium-sized enterprises in the productive sector and families and because therefore the New Bank is important in the national financial system. The PCP does not propose the integration of the New Bank into the banking public sector so that it is clean, so that it is arranged, to value it, then deliver it to another private group, a large economic group, which will become predatory, as did the great shareholders of the Banco Espírito Santo and as now prepares to do the Lone Star. On the contrary, the CFP proposes the integration of this bank into the public sphere precisely for a strategic programme for the dynamisation of the bank, with a view to the future and strengthening its role in the economy. The New Bank needs Portugal and Portugal already paid the New Bank and is preparing to pay even more from the New Bank to deliver it to a private entity whose commitments with the public interest will be absolutely null and which will manage a bank, which could be placed at the service of the economy, only and exclusively, in order to comply with its objectives. That is why the CFP, at the moment, which is again fundamental to determining the future of the New Bank, proposes that the New Bank be able to integrate the banking public sector by segregating and studying assets that are not interested in or weigh on the balance sheet of the bank and finding ways to free the balance sheet from the liability side — identifying, in particular, the heritage of those who have read the bank and who have not yet been called to participate in their losses, because the Portuguese are paying them entirely, but also renegotiating the private debt of the New Bank — and not only on the asset side and thus ensuring the best possible conditions for the integration of the bank into the banking public sector. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u140	Mr António Leitão Amaro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I am still from the time the left ones shouted against more money to the bank,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u142	“Crying” is a force of expression!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u143	... I am still of the time that Antonio Costa, already Prime Minister, promised not to involve any more money from taxpayers in banks nor give public guarantees in the sale of the New Bank, I am still of the time when left-wings screamed against high bankers' wages, I am still of the time when the left-wing screamed against counter-bank closures and more redundancies in banks, I am also of the time when the PSD/CDS government recapitalized banks, seeing, for example, the BPI and the BCP return everything to the state, with very high interest, that make taxpayers win,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u144	It's not true, they don't get anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u145	... and with cuts of 50 % in the salaries of bank administrators. I've been this long, you guys, too, but it's over. They had promised us the new time! ...that new time has come. at this time, the left-wing government has already involved more than EUR 10 billion for the banks.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u146	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u147	BANIF, Box, New Bank, more than 1000 € / Portuguese! in this new time, the wages of the cash administrators tripled. in this new time, the left government has agreed on more locks of counters and more people sent away from banks : Box, New Bank, BANIF. In new times, that fake conversation, which we have heard so much, of the restructuring of public debt for the benefit of taxpayers, led to a restructuring of the bank debt to the detriment of taxpayers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u148	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u149	In new times, banks are privileged, giving them tax benefits that have been withdrawn at the same time from the other companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u150	The banks? Oh, my God! Do banks pay €105 million? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u151	After all, what does new left-wing time bring? Bad and bad business for taxpayers, but generous to the bank. This is the new time. [[PSD applause.]] What do the left parties say? César and Galamba said that the business of selling the New Bank was ruinous, it was to nationalize. What do you do now? They're quiet! PCP and the Left Block give fires of dry powder: they remain firm in parliamentary support, right in place of their majority, every day, supporting the government and its measures. And what do they do? Do they bring the non-concrete votes, the stop of this sale? Don't! ...Do you vote for forgiveness to the banks? Don't! What are they doing? In the form of a parliamentary terror, to distract them from the government's bad business that they support, what do they do? For a business, the sale of the New Bank, which already brings many costs to taxpayers, presents initiatives that bring even more costs. And it's not the PSD that says it, it's your government that says it's going to be 4000, 5000, 10 billion euros. Where are the gentlemen? by visas in new times, in the majority of parliament that penalises taxpayers and helps banks. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u152	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the NAP, the debate on the New Bank should not be summed up in the privatisation or not of the bank but rather in the social and economic responsibilities, which will again fall on the shoulders of the citizens. in this specific case, we consider that the sale of the third largest bank operating in Portugal to a predatory fund is harmful to the national banking and financial system. The option presented by PS, and supported by PSD and CDS, does not alert the public interest. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] Again, Portuguese are called upon to save a private bank for the profit of a poor minority. Then 13 billion euros spent to save the banking and financial system in Portugal is asked: how long will citizens have to pay for the incompetence and regulatory and political irresponsibility of this management of the national banking system?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u154	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The New Bank is again the topic of discussion in this plenary session, now with several legislative initiatives aimed at ensuring its public nature. And in this regard I believe it is necessary to take into account that the New Bank is the third largest national bank to operate in Portugal. After all, we are talking about a bank which has 16 % of the national market and which could and should be put at the service of our country's development and the dynamisation of our economy. In fact, if the mistakes of the past may have some use, we will have to have the courage to learn from them. When we looked at the past and the decisions of various governments to privatize the financial sector, what we concluded was that it was excellent business to fatten the fortunes of a few, but they represented massive losses accumulated for the state and for Portuguese families. In addition, it is sufficient to meet the result of these privatisations: millionaire transfers of money from the productive sector to financial speculation; channelling money from depositors to the transfer of credits to companies of the groups themselves, often without any guarantee of return; and, finally, distribution of large sums into dividends by their shareholders. We're talking about a lot of money! It is a lot of millions that needed our economy and that no one knows where they stand today. What we know is that it's not where it's missing, that is, in the productive sector. Therefore, in our view, it is bank time to stop being an activity that only serves to fatten the profits of a few and become at the service of our economy, at the service of the country and its development. It is time for the bank to strengthen the fight against regional asymmetries and to be a constructive element for social justice. The Greens therefore advocate the maintenance of the New Bank in the public sphere. In fact, as we have already had the opportunity to say, the sale of the New Bank is, by itself, a mistake, but to sell it to an abutre fund is even worse, because it increases the size of the risk, which means that, sooner or later, Portuguese taxpayers will again be called upon to pay the bankers' irresponsibility. Selling without anything to receive and, above all, with the State taking the risks of the business, without having a word to say about the future management of the New Bank, is certainly not looking out for the public interest, it is not solving the problem, it is, first, adding it and referring the solution to the future, because, with the sale, the Government can get rid of the New Bank, but does not get rid of its problems. That is why the integration of the New Bank into the public sphere would, in our view, be the best solution for taxpayers and for the stabilization of the financial system, be the best solution for our economy and for the development of the country, because the New Bank can still have a word to say on this matter. The Greens therefore consider that the New Bank should be integrated in the public sphere, the only way, moreover, to ensure the presence of the public interest in this process which I recall was a problem created by the PSD and the CDS by the former Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u156	No, no! It was for Ricardo Salgado!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u157	The former government created a problem, but it did not solve it, which finally showed us the'majority' or'sincerity' of such a clean exit to which they referred.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u158	For an intervention, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias of the PS now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would say that we live a new time, but in some respects a new time that does not cease to be surprising. If, strictly speaking, it will not surprise the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block to defend the nationalization of the bank at this new time, Mr Antonio Leiton Amaro, it will not fail to be surprising, however, that the PSD has become a party which is unable to look at the banking system and the financial system as a fundamental pillar of the economy and which, irresponsiblely — absolutely irresponsible — has, for four years, pushed forward a problem with impact on the public accounts and today, it is here to request the renegotiation of a loan that was contracted by the Resolution Fund at the time when the Member was a part of the Government, loan, that, with a maturity of two years and that the banking system and the financial system could not and cannot afford it. And since you cannot pay, curiously, the honourable Member is closer to the PCP and the Left Block, because the only solution, if you were forced to pay, would be a bank resolution, would be the nationalization of the bank as a whole. But it doesn't seem to me that a responsible party, at least one party responsible for the old time, the old PPD / PSD, came to this House! The PSD, distorting its root and its social-democratic tradition, has become a radical party that takes on any problem to come to Parliament to confront the XXI Constitutional Government, the PS government, not with the decisions of this government, but with the failure of its own government. Because, honourable Member, this case is a horrendous failure of the governance of the PSD and the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u160	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u161	That's what we're dealing with today! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are dealing with a problem where nearly EUR 4 billion has been paid, without the creditors being able to charge. You gave a real ticket when you made a loan to an entity that cannot meet your commitments. The Resolution Fund cannot fulfil its commitments, because you have granted a loan that cannot be met and today, after eight plans to restructure BANIF, after leaving the General Deposit Box decapitalized, after leaving the New Bank without selling, they have asked for a miracle to this government, which is to sell a negative value bank for positive value, is to ask that an insolvent settlement fund be able to pay its commitments.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u162	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u163	The gentlemen have taken off this Earth! You are already opposed, I do not know whether with the bazouca, as Mr Luís Testa said, but at least by shooting many shots at your own feet. Ladies and gentlemen, we must make a constructive opposition and what we have today is not a constructive opposition. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u164	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate is really one of the greatest acts of pretense that Parliament has ever attended.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u166	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u167	Mrs. Members, we started this debate with the discussion of projects of the Left Block and the PCP,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u168	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u169	...who deserve some attention. In the case of the Left Block, in addition to a bill, a designated draft resolution of discontent was presented. There was a time when the Left Block was outraged, revolted, outraged. Now, the Left Block is upset, it's a little upset about this, but it's not gonna do anything to stop it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u170	It's a bluff!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u171	It's a bluff!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u172	There's a bill!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u173	Mrs. Members, it is not surprising that this draft resolution refers, at some point, to, and I quote, “At the same time, the Government guarantees that the resolution would have ‘zero costs’ for taxpayers (...)”. Mrs Mariana Mortágua, what does the government now guarantee?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u174	And what's the CDS proposal? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u175	So, at the time, would you disagree, and now you agree? It's very strange!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u176	Now you're bored!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u177	What is your project? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u178	And more: throughout the whole project you can read a criticism of the bill that the government, which you support, gave to the banks. Mrs. Members, the Minister of Finance, when he is going to negotiate these matters, go there with the legitimacy that you give him.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u179	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u180	The government, when it decided to sell the New Bank, did so with the legitimacy that you give it. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] Mrs. Member, if you disagree, take consequences, don't get bored, do something.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u181	Present a project!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u182	Do something other than get bored, because it's a little bit boring by itself. The attitude of the CFP is also extraordinary because, indeed, it proposes a lot, provided that it is absolutely certain that it does things in such a way that it is impossible for the banks on this side to vote! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u183	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u184	What a waste!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u185	How do you do that? The CFP, vis-à-vis the former Government, feels very badly. As for the current one, you don't find anything, you don't talk about it. It's like he doesn't exist.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u186	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u187	Mr Miguel Tiago, if it were not your vote, this government would not have the legitimacy to sell the New Bank to such a fund that you qualify as betting.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u188	I had your vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u189	Not mine, because I did not vote in this government, nor did I vote in this sale.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u190	I had the CDS vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u191	Who made it possible was Mr. Deputies, whether they wanted to, or not!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u192	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u193	Do it, baby!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u194	If you misjudge the conditions of this new loan to the Resolution Fund, then it is very simple: tell the government that, because if you want to, the government does not negotiate or hand over them to the bank. It's as simple as this! [[PCP protests.]] This government exists only because you want it and because you support it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u195	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u196	You guys are a bunch of assholes and they want to pass the cap to the others!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u197	You are the one who votes for it! You're a badass!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u198	Nor does it cease to be extraordinary, Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias, who, in wanting to criticize the PSD, did not perceive the criticisms that weaved his own party. So, did you say these parties were irresponsible and radical? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u199	Irresponsible and radical, says the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u200	So, do you do this to the party of the honourable Member, who is only in the government because it is supported by irresponsible or radical parties? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u201	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u202	I'm not in the government, I'm in Parliament!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u203	Mr. Deputies, I was not expecting him to betray himself so quickly. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] Finally, let it be clear that the CDS disagrees with this negotiation. We think it failed in the objectives, failed in coherence and failed in the results.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u204	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u205	We also believe that the dimension of Portugal's choice is not between a terrible negotiation and a terrible nationalization,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u206	And alternatives? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u207	What is the CDS proposal? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u208	... goes a lot beyond this. They rule and rule well, instead of doing projects! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u209	For a second intervention, Mr António Leitão Amaro, of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u210	Mr President, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias : PSD is radical in defending taxpayers against your mismanagement. [[PS Members' laughs.]] The PSD is radically against the socialist method, in which there are only two alternatives: either they do nothing or they wear out hundreds, millions, billions of taxpayers. [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] The honourable Member asked about the root of the problems. We know the root of the problems in the bank. It was a decade of political interference by the socialist government to get into business and mismanagement of credit. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Yes, Mr, it does not just have to do with the name Salgado. It has the name Socrates, it has the name of eight or nine ministers who sit again in the socialist government today, it has the socialist brand.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u211	And Paulo Portas? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u212	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u213	Mr. Eurico Brilliant Days, to see if the Socialist Party realizes once and for all, I will say that there is an alternative in the middle. The problem is not to renegotiate the loan, but the conditions that you have given. It was possible, it was the minimum required.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u214	Oliveira and Costa were working so well! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u215	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u216	I will finish, Mr. President. The minimum was to require banks to pay the same amount that the Republic costs to finance the banks. The minimum was that the General Deposit Box did not triple the orders,... [[PS protests.]] ... because it was possible for a management that governed the bank to put no more money than the capital needs.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u217	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u218	I will finish, Mr. President. There is only one socialist method in which we are against: to store, without pain or pity, the taxpayers' money,... [[PS protests.]] ... decide and govern without looking at the means, because the money is from the others. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u219	For a second intervention, Mr Miguel Tiago of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u220	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles : The vote of the CFP has allowed the current government to take office, it is true, but what is causing you to be confused is knowing that this non-voting of the CFP would legitimize your government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u221	It's explained!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u222	The honourable Member wants not to question what this government is doing, but to say that it should be your government making this sale.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u223	That's it! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u224	The CFP opposes the sale, regardless of which government is leading it. And, in this case, it opposes and brings to the Assembly of the Republic the possibility of stopping in accordance with what is planned and of integrating the bank into the banking public sector, which is what the CFP has been defending from the very first moment. The PCP has not now been inventing a way to write its position so that the CDS does not support it. The CDS has never supported it and the position of the PCP has always been the same, Mrs Deputy. Mr Leitão Amaro, I thought that even for the PSD there would be limits to dishonesty, but I was wrong once again. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u225	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u226	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr Leitão Amaro is not proposing that the banks pay any more. The honourable Member is proposing that the State's loan to the Resolution Fund should not be reopened because it makes it insolvent. When was it to increase the contribution of the banks to the Resolution Fund, how did your party vote, Mr Deputy? He voted against!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u227	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u228	We will have time in the future to increase that contribution. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u229	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u230	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no shots of dry powder. The CFP proposes, as it has always proposed, the integration of the New Bank into the public sphere. If there are dry powder shots here, they are those who say they are against the sale, but that will unfeasible the PCP project. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u231	For one last intervention on this item on the agenda, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u232	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I just wanted to note that we currently understand the political irrelevance of the PSD and the CDS, when all they have to present are provocation attempts. Nothing more than that! The entire PSD and CDS policy is summed up in attempts to provoke the parliamentary majority. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] They made the resolution of the New Bank, they injected nearly 4 billion into the New Bank, created a fiction about the fact that taxpayers do not have to pay the New Bank,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u233	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u234	... they've prepared the sale, promised it, and now you just have to provoke it. I have advice for PSD and CDS if you want to accept it:...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u235	Forget it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u236	...the Left Block has very well-defined political priorities and we do not stop making proposals that count. We do not recommend anything, we put forward a bill to nationalize — in fact, that was always the proposal of the Left Block, now and in the former Government. in the same way that we defended the increase in the contribution to the bank, we voted in favour of this increase, and the PSD voted against.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u237	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u238	We have defined proposals, priorities defined and we do not play. When we do, we take it seriously. The advice and suggestion I leave to the CDS and PSD is that they do the same.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u239	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u240	I will finish, Mr. President. Focus on finding your political agenda, your political alternatives, your bills to bring to the Assembly of the Republic and, for God's sake, stop provocations, because literally the Assembly of the Republic has more to do. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u241	Mrs. Members, concluded the joint discussion of the projects of lein.os 499 and 504 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and draft resolutions Nos 798, 804 and 806 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ), we will proceed to the discussion of draft resolution No 775 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a firm, active and comprehensive action in the defence of religious freedom ( CDS-PP ). To present the draft resolution, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u242	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On 5 January of this year Mohammed Shohayet, 16 months old, lost his life, together with his mother and a brother, during the attempted flight from Burma to Bangladesh. They fled the persecution that they are target for being Muslims in a predominantly Buddhist country. In the early morning of April 4, Lucie Sarah Halim, a 67-year-old Jew, was killed by a 27-year-old. According to the neighbors, this one shouted « Allah » as he threw it through the window of his house in Paris. A week later, on the Sunday of Ramos, at least 36 people died following an ISIS attack on a Coptic church in Egypt. Few examples, unfortunately of the many that happen in 2017, in the middle of the 21st century. None of this has happened in Portugal and certainly none of us is guilty, but it must be recognized that no one exempts us from the responsibility of not blinding us to injustice. Between guilt and responsibility is the freedom of each one, but also of the collective gathered in this Assembly of the Republic, not to lower his arms and denounce. This is not therefore a question of government or opposition, of the left or right, of human rights, of human lives. Like the rights of minorities—ethnic, social—, women's rights, sexual orientation, freedom of expression, identity, assembly, this is the right to religious freedom. In 2017, in the middle of the 21st century, there is a minority that is especially persecuted, its places of worship restricted or destroyed, its identity disputed or threatened. This minority is Christian. Several, many, studies confirm it. According to the International Society for Human Rights, a secular observatory based in Frankfurt, 80% of acts of religious discrimination are currently aimed at Christians. But it is true that the right to religious freedom does not concern only Christians, even when, in the minority, they are the most persecuted group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u243	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u244	The freedom to profess or not a religion, to choose to have an identity as our own thing, to celebrate a cult or to choose not to do so, this freedom is a fundamental right. Portugal has a special duty on the UN Human Rights Council as a member for another year to fight for this freedom for everyone in the world. Portugal has an opportunity at the European Council for Foreign Affairs to raise the issue, whenever necessary, so that Europe has a strong role to play in defending religious freedom. In the European Parliament, all parties unanimously condemned what they declared a genocide: atrocities that have been committed in Syria and Iraq for religious reasons against Christian minorities or Yazidi. In the national Parliament, we must also be able to say with one voice that Portugal must vigorously defend all those persecuted; that the government, diplomacy, our representatives, must fight for this freedom in the world, for this human right and for these lives. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u245	Mr Ascenso Simões, of the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u246	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have assumed, for more than 40 years, a heritage that is based on two pillars, being the first that of the secular state, that we do not abdicate and that is central in our Constitution and in our practice, and the second that of religious freedom, that we always defend and affirm. It was with the Socialist Party that we always had a party in Portugal and the mobilization of society to affirm that same religious freedom. However, today's initiative is not intended to debate religious freedom in Portugal or in the world. This initiative is intended to mark the coming of Pope Francis to Portugal, and this cannot be accepted in a parliamentary debate. Why do I say that she is destined to mark the coming of Pope Francis to Portugal? I say this because when we received the CDS proposal, we tried to find a solution that would integrate all parties into a comprehensive view of religious freedom.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u247	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u248	The CDS proposal refers at various times to everyone who is persecuted for religious issues, especially Christians, but forgets that there is a country with many hundreds of millions of beings who, by the Constitution, are prevented from religious practice, which is China, forgets that there is the serious problem of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, which is based on a religious nature, it also forgets that, despite having ceased to observe a permanent armed conflict in Ireland, we still find, in the behaviour of families, a religious incompatibility among Christians. For all these reasons, the Socialist Party, before this initiative, for which we would like to have a broad approval in this House, can no longer follow what is our founding heritage, that of the defense of religious freedom, but do not contain it, in particular, in the consecration of Christians, idea that goes through this whole proposal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u249	We are for religious freedom! Imagine, Mr President, the following situation: if, on matters of colour, a draft resolution or a recommendation was submitted that we were against the verification of a color attack, particularly in relation to whites, we would all oppose that text. That is our opposition here today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u250	On behalf of the Social Democratic Party, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u251	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Religious freedom is the first daughter of the principle of modern tolerance. It was the assimilation of the indispensableity of tolerance among the various religious beliefs that drew in the spirit of European civilization the understanding by the existential logics of the "other" and the acceptance of the free course of ideas that we do not share, but that we have a duty to respect and even protect, from religion to the most profane conceptions of the world. The modern concept of freedom was born precisely from the requirement of religious tolerance, made necessity with the constant wars and persecutions based on the differences of religion that Europeans have promoted against each other, especially since the sixteenth century. It was from the debates about religious tolerance that generated humanist ideals, from Rotterdam Erasmo to John Locke, to their legal consecration with the constitutional liberalism of the 19th century. The freedom of each one to follow the religious belief that better understand or choose not to adopt any is, and will continue to be, a fundamental milestone of our modernity and the hard core of what constitutes us as free citizens in the early twenty-first century. Unfortunately, this is not the case in many other places in the world. Examples of religious intolerance are multiplied, either with pre-modern configurations or with post-modern masks, to the point where it seems that religious unity has become the central support of some religions and many ideologies made of the same mass, the refusal of difference and the other. Therefore the PSD supports this CDS initiative. Portugal should always be at the forefront of defending religious freedom, internally and externally, in all international forums, in all bodies, councils and committees in which the Portuguese State has seats and voices, not only because it is a basic principle of our Constitution but above all because it will always have to be our brand image: a free, open and tolerant country that accepts the beliefs and different convictions on the world and things on the part of all those who respect the materiality of our fundamental rights and the rule of law. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not have any illusions: if we allow religious freedom to be removed, we will be fatally jeopardizing freedom in all its other dimensions, especially in the political sphere. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u252	Mr António Filipe, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u253	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It is important to say that the statement by Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the rostrum was made in more correct terms than those from the draft resolution submitted by the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u254	It has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u255	The honourable Member has put, in appropriate and correct terms, the problem of religious freedom, but unfortunately that is not what is included in the draft resolution presented here. The struggle for religious freedom knows no borders, neither between countries nor between religions. Therefore, the fight for tolerance must be stopped at all latitudes and for any manifestations of intolerance that may arise in relation to any form of religious worship. What we see in this draft resolution presented by the CDS is that the issue is placed on a unilateral perspective, that is, Christians are victims of attacks on religious freedom.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u256	Isn't that true? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u257	And you will be-CL- him, of course. Obviously, in the countries where this is happening, this can only be our condemnation, which must be expressed at all levels and at all forums, national or international. But unfortunately, manifestations of religious intolerance exist not only for Christians, but also for other religions—and this should deserve, on our part, the same concern and condemnation—and we say that this happens in all latitudes. If we are shocked and think that we should intervene in relation to violent demonstrations against religions that occur in various parts of the world, we must also be aware of signs of religious intolerance that are occurring even within our societies and that also deserve our concern and condemnation so that these situations cannot spread and worsen. On the other hand, another aspect of the draft resolution presented by the CDS-PP and which we find critical is that it considers that there are armed conflicts that have religious foundations, for which, clearly, the resolution is a mere pretext, because its foundation is another, it is not religion. We cannot accept that the conflicts that unfortunately fattened this world outside are religious conflicts and that are based on the religion that they exist. It is not, Mrs. Anne Rita Bessa. We know that, unfortunately, religion often serves as a pretext for armed conflicts that are perpetrated with other foundations and with other objectives. We are not facing a war of civilizations between Christianity and Islam and, if we accept this logic, we are accepting a perversion that opens the door to all kinds of religious intolerances, and surely that is not what the honourable Member defended in her speech. Therefore, with all the understanding for a struggle, which must be done and which is of everyone, against intolerance and religious freedom, we cannot accept the terms in which this draft resolution of the CDS was presented, and therefore will not have our support. [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u258	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u259	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Whether the draft resolution of the CDS truly on religious freedom—for respect for the freedom of each and every one of them to have their religion or not to have any religion, for respect for individual rights, collectively recognized, to, in their individuality, be able to adhere to a particular religion—and he would deserve the unanimous support of this House. And so you won't have that support. The draft resolution of the CDS was a condemnation to all the runaways, attacks on all religions, regardless of the creeds concerned, and he would perhaps have a majority and unanimous support in this House. But it's not. It was not the draft resolution of the CDS that contained a huge omission on the fact that on the basis of religious freedom there is absolute freedom and on the basis of that freedom there is the secularity of the State, and only thus, as independent of any religion and capable of ensuring respect for all religions, it would be approved unanimously in this House. And so you don't have that unanimous support. And this is the basis of CDS problems. The speech by Mrs Deputy at the opening of this debate, as has already been said, is quite different from the draft resolution of the CDS. You see, it was necessary to start with the example of an Islamophobic attack, which we also condemned. But the CDS draft resolution is absolutely omitted as regards that.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u260	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u261	One thing is what is written, another thing is what is said. And it's written that we're going to vote and that it's pretty much what's said. But even in the speech of the honourable Member there is no condemnation to the extreme right that fats, with an Islamophobic basis, for example, in Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u262	To the extreme right and to the extreme left!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u263	There is no condemnation of Islamophobia or xenophobia that also serves, both as a basis for the extreme right that fats in Europe. And we condemn that. There is no criticism beyond persecution for Christians. And we, condemning the persecution of Christians, being merciful to the people who are persecuted because of their religious choice, do not cease to condemn the persecution of all those and all those — I repeat, all — who, by their choice of religion, are persecuted all over the world. I believe that is what is separating us in this context. Finally, there is one point which the Left Block has in its genesis and which, I believe, is inherent in this debate, which is the need for tolerance and respect for those who do not have any kind of religion and do not want to have.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u264	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u265	I will finish, Mr. President. And when we do not condemn the absence of secular states, as in various parts of the world, in various hemispheres, we are condemning not only the lack of religious freedom but also the possibility of any citizen or citizen being able to say that he has no religion, and that is also a lack of freedom. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u266	To close the debate, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u267	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After everything we have heard here, particularly from the PS, who actually tried to impose a proposal on the CDS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u268	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u269	... I cannot help thinking that if the facts were ignored in this draft resolution and where 'Christians' were read 'yazidi' or 'Muslims' in Europe or any other group, the same would be more easily approved. [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u270	Don't be intolerant!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u271	Now it's all clear!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u272	And it is interesting to recall what the President of the Jewish World Congress says about the current persecution of Christians.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u273	Now, listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u274	He says the following: "The Jewish people know too much what happens when the world chooses silence. This death campaign against our Christian brothers must be stopped». Perhaps this was also the idea of Manuel Alegre, when he said: "There are no half-freedoms. When someone's freedom is threatened, everyone's freedom is threatened."
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u275	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u276	Therefore, we can ignore the cruelty of the data collected in various sources, which, with nothing taken from any other group, justify the fact that we have highlighted Christians. Choosing to ignore these facts has a name, it is called « prejudice». And that's exactly why this vote makes sense. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u277	Ended the debate on draft resolution No 775 / XIII ( 2. a ), we proceed to the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.os 419 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Revokes the foundational regime and establishes a model of democratic management of public higher education institutions ( first amendment to Law No 62 / 2007 of 10 September 2007 establishing the legal regime of higher education institutions ) ( PCP ) and 501 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Change the legal regime of higher education institutions by introducing parity, strengthening the democratic functioning of universities and extinguishing the foundational regime ( BE ). To present the CFP initiative, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u278	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Ten years ago, as a result of a process of real legislative imposition by the government of then in a record time of 13 days, the legal regime of higher education institutions has emerged, or RJIES. As early as 2007, the CFP considered that it was a deeply negative proposal for higher education and, globally, for the entire public education system. The RJIES led to a harsh blow in the autonomy of public higher education, because it embodied the view that the market elects as the main development factor of societies, calling the school apparatus to better serve the capitalist economic competition, supporting the structural role that higher education and research have for the development of the country and for individual and collective emancipation. at the same time, and because of this nature, the RJIES olympically ignores the main problem of public higher education, which is the deinvestment of decades to which it has been subject. And no investment, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no autonomy. The transformation of institutions into foundations — public entities under private law — promotes the disunity between these institutions and the State and the subversion of their role as spaces for creation and free dissemination of knowledge. This is about mercantillization and a path to privatization, which is already taking place in practice in various aspects in the universities-foundation: by increasing precariousness and fragility of working relationships, with the growth in the direction of recruitment by the private teaching and non-teachers regime; by alienation of ownership and concession of public space; by the primacy given to the private in the government of institutions to the detriment of constitutionally planned democratic management, reducing the role of academic bodies vis-à-vis external entities; by subjugation and conditioning of scientific, pedagogical and true autonomy freedom to interests other than institutions. The elimination of the nature of the foundations of this legal regime therefore corresponds to a perspective to ensure the solidity, quality and democratity of the entire public higher education system, and that is what we propose. In the view of the guarantee of the existence of a true autonomy of the institutions in their organization and management, we defend: the elimination of constraints on the hiring of teachers and non-teachers, taking into account the safeguarding of the permanent needs of the institutions at the level of staff; the democratic participation and management required by the Constitution, involving teachers, students and employees and placing students and teachers on parity in government and management bodies. Because there is no place for the formation of the individual's integral culture without the guarantee of democratic participation in the government of schools and higher education institutions. In addition, we propose a progressive and democratic perspective for the development of higher education, in a unitary view, with the possibility of political higher education confer the degree of doctor, with the extension of support at the level of school social action and the greater protection of workers-students. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CFP reaffirms today, as always, its firm opposition to any policies of privilege to business and to the mercantilization of knowledge and education, which perpetuate inequality in access to a fundamental right, such as the right to education, the structural pillar of democracy itself. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u279	To present the initiative of the Left Block, Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u280	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: RJIES celebrates a decade of existence. At the time, it was presented as an instrument to strengthen the autonomy of higher education institutions and the foundational regime was, for the then socialist Government, the central pillar of a modernization process that intended to apply to all universities. Labour precariousness has proliferated and are the institutions of higher education, already in a foundational model, the ones that have emphasized these negative indices most. The possibility of hiring out of career status and even outside the General Labour Law in Public Functions fired thousands of teachers and researchers for precarious contracts. The speech of modernization in relation to the labour market is a achievement and does not go beyond the proliferation of work precariousness. To force these institutions to find 50 % of their own funds for their budgets means two things: the State is irresponsible of one of its constitutional obligations as regards investment in public higher education and places a constant financial pressure on the institutions. The institutional architecture that the RJIES and the foundational model impose is distorted and antidemocratic. The design of the general council, where external members have more decision-making power over the day-to-day institution than students and employees, means subjugating the body to parallel interests. The curators' council, at the top of this hierarchical pyramid, does not respond even to any elected organ, only to the rector. The rescue of the democratic government of higher education should, 10 years later, include an in-depth and participated balance sheet on the experience of this new legal regime, but it requires, from the outset, a break with the foundational model and implies a recovery of a model of democratic participation in the management of institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u281	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u282	The Block does not come to this debate with just one reflection. We are presenting here concrete changes to rescue democracy in higher education institutions. That is: to guarantee democratic bodies, particularly the Senate; to guarantee parity in these bodies; to ensure gender parity, as is the law; to ensure that the rector is elected by an electoral college, strengthening democratic participation in this choice; and to eliminate the foundational regime. The foundational model, after 10 years, created a state within the state. Even the Ministry that protects the sector has lost decision-making power on fundamental issues. The precariousness among teachers has increased, democracy has decreased and the logic of "school-enterprise" has settled in the academy. Defending a true model of autonomy means ensuring more investment, releasing scientific production and disseminating knowledge of the ties of private interests and combating precariousness and social exclusion. That is the Block proposal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u283	For an intervention, Mrs Nilza de Sena, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u284	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With these bills presented by the PCP and the Left Block, we find that every day the leftmost parties get a different problem. They create problems as if they were not part of the governance arch parties today, of those who support the government. And it is true that the Minister has already said what his position on this was. I would like to see why the Left Block and the PCP stand this way: on Monday and Wednesday, with the government and, on Tuesday and Thursday, in opposition.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u285	Because the government is not the Assembly! Aren't you used to that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u286	In fact, the CFP today presents, in plenary, a vision of the public institutions of higher education completely out of touch with reality. in the same diploma, questions the binary model, the management model, the foundational regime, the RJIES, the tips... i.e., in a word, they question everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u287	What about the PSD? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u288	This bill, in addition to anachronistic, is a real utopia of chaos, which I realize enthusiasses the communists, but does not have any adherence to reality — indeed, as always! Otherwise, let us see: since 25 April, the public network has been officially binary, i.e. university and political. We saw the emergence of the private and cooperative education network and, in general, after 1980 we also saw the remarkable development of the system — that is undeniable. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] The offer of training was regionalized and pedagogical, scientific, administrative and financial autonomy was granted to these institutions. We internationalized our institutions and attracted more and more foreign students. We therefore have a higher education system with capacity. There are many Portuguese universities in international rankings and there are quality polytechnics. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] I don't see where the binary model problem is. When much, we could accentuate your mission. As for RJIES, we know that it resulted in an auscultation made in 2005 and then a publication in 2007. We have lived well with him, but we can improve it, it is a fact. The RJIES, as it has been thought, has shortcomings, deserves clarification in many areas, particularly on the issue of universities-foundation. The PSD is more in a strengthened autonomy regime that would clarify some issues raised by the founding regime,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u289	So why didn't you come up with any proposals? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u290	...but, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have never thought about or even admitted the extinction of the characteristics of this regime, because in practice what is important is to give stability to the institutions, it is to ensure more autonomy and flexibility in management. That's what this is about, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. On the other hand, it makes no sense to extinguish the RJIES or revoke the foundational regime without making a serious assessment of its results.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u291	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u292	This evaluation has not been made and is not done. Mrs. Members, I know that they often try to make the history that they did not do in 1974 and 1975 in 2017, but do not realize that they have not spent 43 years and do not realize that they are not in this government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u293	Mrs. Members, an error has been detected in the electronic framework where the times available to the parliamentary groups, which will be corrected immediately. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP has the floor for one speech, which will be available for the three minutes corresponding to her in full.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u294	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What we are discussing today has already been widely developed by the parties that presented their bills — an extensive review of the RJIES, the end of the foundational regime, a direct democratic management of the institutions and until the end of the binary regime in higher education. Very generally, as far as foundations are concerned, they have worked well and you do not understand exactly what problem the PCP and the Block want to solve. Did the University of Porto, the University of Aveiro, the ISCTE or the University of Minho come to ask for a reversal? Recently, University Nova has not unanimously approved the passage of the foundation in the General Council? Only the PCP and Block ask for this reversal when they lack another agenda. [[Protests by PCP MP Ana Mesquita.]] As regards the binary regime, this is a structural amendment which the Minister has already said he does not accept and which, moreover, has implications for the Basic Law — which you have not wanted to review — and for various legal decrees of degrees and diplomas. It should not therefore be grafted in such a strangely discreet way. As regards the introduction of gender quotas, the Left Block well knows that this subject is being dealt with elsewhere.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u295	That's what's in the law! You don't know the law? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u296	So for the CDS, the relevant question is not what we are discussing today, but why we are discussing it today. And the answer is very simple: today we are making this debate, first of all, because the RJIES and the foundational regime are historically fracturing matters between the PS and the parties on the left; secondly, because you like to discuss clearly your differences, convinced that this is the most democratically healthy way not to find solutions, but to preserve your identity; and thirdly, because it is the only opportunity that the PCP and the Block have to act with positions that now, finally so close to power, do not have the strength to enforce. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the position of the CDS is clear: we are in favour of the strengthened autonomy of higher education institutions and we can even reopen the file of the RJIES, which must be evaluated, but in order to improve, not to return to an ineffective past. Therefore, on the part of the CDS, we give all the space for you to make clear in a healthy and democratic manner your differences and we do not enter into a discussion that does not belong to us, as we did just a few days ago, during the discussion of this subject in committee, at various moments of rupture between the PS, the PCP and the Block. But at the end of the debate, here is what will happen: the CFP and the Block will suddenly pick up the flag of the end of the foundations and become-CL- they will become democratically accomplices of whatever the PS government intends to do. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u297	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the Socialist Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u298	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, I would like to welcome the two initiatives under discussion, noting that, on the right hand side, there is still no clear understanding of how the parliamentary diversity of the initiatives works and how each party stands. Although we disagree, it is to greet disagreement and it is to salute the possibility that we can put it naked before the House, which has democratic legitimacy, to discuss what is consensual and what is not. I think discussing differences only enriches the legal regimes we have discussed and also the position of each and those here seeking to represent the citizens. On this subject, we would like to underline, very briefly, some aspects. First, we believe that the RJIES has had a globally positive result: it opened the institutions in their interaction with civil society, promoted internationalization, provided particularly relevant and important management tools for higher education institutions to meet the challenges of a global higher education area at European level. Therefore, it seems to us that your balance sheet is globally positive, which does not mean that the door is closed to availability and the need for, 10 years back on your approval, to discuss changes. However, and with regard to this question, we do not follow — indeed, it is —...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u299	Oh, really? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u300	... the initiatives submitted by the PCP and the Left Block in respect of two nuclear aspects, one on the foundational regime and the other on the configuration of the binary model. We do not agree on these points, and for that reason we cannot vote in favour of the two initiatives. However, we would like to stress that there are relevant and particularly relevant issues in what is being discussed. In addition, many of them were presented by the Socialist Party, even in the past legislature, at the time when we understood that it made sense to strengthen the democratic functioning of the management bodies, to strengthen the participation of women and to ensure the existence of quotas in the composition of the candidate lists to the bodies of higher education institutions. For this reason, we believe that there is a path that is open and will continue to be tracked in the months that will continue to be achieved, in order to achieve these objectives, which strengthen transparency, strengthen participation and strengthen the democratic robustness of the institutions. The method is also a relevant matter and, in the course of an evaluation process, a process linked with the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) to make a balance sheet of how the foundational regime went, how the implementation of this legal regime over the last 10 years and how it can effectively benefit from benefits also seems to us that this is not yet the time to proceed with this debate and the start of a discussion in Parliament. However, this moment will be soon, as soon as the results of the evaluation are known, as soon as the working group that was set up in the framework of the advisory board of higher education institutions can carry out its evaluation — which, in fact, will have as a concern to listen to the institutions, listen to students, teachers, non-teachers and effectively allow a broader and plural framework. Therefore, synthetically and summarizing, we cannot follow the initiatives, but some issues are valuable and will deserve our agreement at another time, when there is this opportunity to hold the debate in Parliament and after this evaluation that is taking place. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u301	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Luís Monteiro, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u302	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The demagogy of the right in this debate is indeed extraordinary. It says the RJIES, approved in 2007, that at the end of five years it deserved a thorough review — it is the RJIES itself that says it needs a review of that law itself. Now, the right has been in government for four years and nothing has done about it. So it is strange that you now come up with the argument that it is not yet time to make that review.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u303	I said it was time to do that review!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u304	It's strange, because they were in the government just at the time they spent five years approving the RJIES and they did nothing about it. It is also interesting to realize that in this debate no one has come to defend the foundational model by foot. The PSD has a different proposal, but is ashamed to bring the debate;...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u305	Don't be ashamed, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u306	... says you have an alternative proposal, which even has an idea a little different from that of the Government and the Minister, but actually did not have the courage to present an alternative bill to the proposals presented by the Block. The CDS, idem ; says it can be an interesting debate, but in fact, it does not come to play either.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u307	Of course not, it's not my government, it's yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u308	You have to understand!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u309	Therefore, the right has completely resigned from the debate on the future of higher education institutions. As for the Socialist Party, I would like to tell you that we will be here for this debate. But, in fact, as regards the proliferation of precariousness, the lack of democracy and other factors, in particular the financing and responsibility that the State and governments should have or should not have in this investment, part or much of the numbers are already known and the Block project focuses precisely on the data on the table. We will be here to vote today, we will be here to hold these debates, as in all the debates in the State budget, we have not been ashamed — on the contrary to the right — of coming to play with alternative proposals,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u310	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u311	... and here we will be, in the majority parliament and also in this House, discussing all our proposals clearly. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u312	Mrs Ana Mesquita of the PCP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u313	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The RJIES and the founding regime have a decade and the balance sheet is not done.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u314	And it's not done yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u315	But the balance sheet has to be more than done, because we have the field experience than has been applied in this area, we have the knowledge of the academic community in relation to the consequences of what is established and, in particular in the universities-foundation, we know well that the transition of teachers and non-teachers to precarious schemes has been substantially aggravated, which cannot be spread. The truth is that we cannot prove with all certainty that the foundational regime is better, but we can prove that it is worse for the development of the country, in a perspective of individual and collective progress. They say, "Mrs." Members of the PSD and the CDS : « Understand and resolve these issues within the majority of parliament ». But the PSD and CDS, when they were still in government a little while ago, did not solve this problem or others; worse, they aggravated existing problems; worse, they contributed to massive cuts in funding. And it should be recalled that between 2010 and 2015 300 million euros were cut to public higher education, so a great deal of responsibility is yours.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u316	Now it's yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u317	They arrive at this debate, wash their hands like Pilates and say they have nothing to do with the problem, they have nothing to say about the foundational regime. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if they do not solve the problems, if, before, they deepen, they create more problems, then it is appropriate to say that it is clear that the PSD and CDS will never be part of the solution and will always be part of the problem. This is a fundamental issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u318	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u319	I will finish, Mr. President. Mrs. Ana Rita Bessa, did you come to pick up flags? In 2007 we said the same thing as we said today, we continue to say it, we continue to fight in and out of the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u320	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u321	The PSD and the CDS — I will remind you, Madam Member — voted against the RJIES at that time and today they say they are in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u322	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u323	But today the government is yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u324	That's picking up flags in the drawer! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u325	Mrs. Members, we close the discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.os 419 and 501 / XIII ( 2. ( a). We moved on to the fifth item on the agenda, which is from the evaluation of draft resolutions Nos 716/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Programme, sensitize and disbursate to combat domestic violence ( The Greens ), 800 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to prevent and combat domestic violence ( BE), 807 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of measures to prevent and combat violence ( NAP) and 811 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of a new national plan for gender equality, citizenship and non-discrimination and the evaluation of the results and effectiveness of the application of electronic bracelets in the context of domestic violence ( CDS-PP ). To present the Green draft resolution, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u326	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Eradicating the unfortunate phenomenon of domestic violence must be one of the priority objectives of the Assembly of the Republic. It cannot be said that Parliament's initiatives and actions with regard to prevention and combating domestic violence have been out of the political agenda, because they do not, in fact, have. But it is true that this is a recurring, continuing work that the Assembly of the Republic must continue to promote, because the phenomenon has not stopped. in this sense, the Assembly of the Republic must continue to pay attention and proactive attention to the prevention and fight against this phenomenon. We, the Greens, consider that the diagnosis, the particular attention to reality, the territorialization of the response are examples of subjects that we should encourage. We must also be aware that what is contained in the law is one thing and that the creation of effective conditions for this prevention and for this fight goes far beyond the legislative framework, let us say so, and requires another kind of answers. in this sense, The Greens today come to the Assembly of the Republic to propose the strengthening of programming, sensitization and misburocratization to combat domestic violence. For this, in particular, we propose, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who submit a proposal for the VI National Plan on Prevention and Combating Domestic and Gender Violence during 2017, but promoting a wide public debate much greater than what is usually done and decentralized on the measures contained therein. We must call for discussion of these matters and planning not only the associations, but also the individual citizens concerned, on the other hand, the Greens suggest that the proposal should be preceded by the submission of a final report evaluating the implementation of the V National Plan on Prevention and Combating Domestic and Gender Violence. However, we know that, between the presentation of the Greens project and today, on which it is being discussed, this evaluation report has already been submitted, so that the Greens will, if the other parliamentary groups consider it, withdraw this point, insofar as we are not making a draft resolution which is coming to contemplate something that has actually been done by the Government in the meantime. We also propose that campaigns to raise awareness, inform and alert young people to the rejection of violence, including domestic violence and, within this, violence in dating, especially in schools of all levels of education, but also seeking the cooperation of economic agents from places where young people tend to concentrate. Finally, the Greens also propose that the bureaucrats, with a view to their elimination, be urgently identified from social, financial and judicial support processes to victims of domestic violence. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important point. We have repeatedly come to the Assembly of the Republic complaints of bureaucracies that have withdrawn support from women victims of domestic violence and that often make them give up the support they need. in this sense, we must work towards deburocratization, so that these support at the most different levels, namely judicial and financial, are effectively provided. These are the proposals and the challenges that the Greens bring to Parliament today, in the expectation that the other parliamentary groups will approve these measures, which may be another step in order for Parliament to respond precisely to the prevention and fight against the scourge of domestic violence. [[Congrats from the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u327	For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u328	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: It is quite true what has now been said. We all know that, despite all the developments that Portugal has seen in preventing and combating gender-based violence, and specifically domestic violence, this problem, this crime, is far from being overcome in our country. On the contrary, as noted in the 2016 RASI ( Annual Internal Security Report ), the general trend of domestic violence, contrary to the trend of the rest of the crime, which has been decreasing, is increasing. It recorded an increase of 1, 4 %; it may be slight or more pronounced, but the truth is it always goes up. Over the past 12 years, as we already know, there have been more than 450 dead women, more than 530 attempted homicides, and already this year there have also been a number of women killed by domestic aggressors. Domestic violence is far from being exposed, on the contrary. The analysis of open domestic violence investigations shows that in the last two years more than 5,000 domestic aggressors, with proven or assumed guilt, have been released from trial and have been applied to them by the institute of the provisional suspension of the proceedings. They are usually obliged to pay compensation to the victim, the State or an institution of social solidarity or to attend programmes or activities. On the fulfilment of these obligations and, above all, on its degree of effectiveness in preventing recurrence, nothing is known. We know, on the contrary, that the degree of recurrence in domestic violence is frequent. The problem of domestic violence is all the more worrying as we realize that it is also increasing in the younger layers and is sharpening. According to RASI, in 2016 there was a 6 % increase in the number of participations due to violence in dating, which is already due to 2014. To eradicate this problem, it is essential to understand the phenomenon of domestic violence and domestic violence in dating, the factors that originate it, that sustain it, the contours and the specificities of the relations of domination and submission, the signs and also the processes of recurrence. The Left Block therefore proposes—like what was instituted through Ordinance No 280 / 2016 for homicide situations in the context of domestic violence—the creation of a team with the task of conducting the study and retrospective analysis of situations of domestic violence, whose aggressors, with proven or assumed guilt, have seen the institute of the provisional suspension of the proceedings being applied to them. The Left Block also considers that education and training is central to the prevention of violence in dating and that the intensification of national public campaigns of awareness and information, specifically directed to young people, and not only as it is currently being done, in a university context, but in all degrees of teaching and in articulation with the autonomous regions, with the authorities and with the schools. Mrs. and Mrs Deputies, we used to talk a lot about numbers — and it was also what I brought here today: numbers, statistics, percentages — but we cannot forget that behind each of these numbers, these percentages and these statistics is a person and a life, and most of the time they are women who suffer this type of aggression and violence years after. They are whole lives of violence and dehumanization. It is the responsibility of this House not to lower its arms and to be increasingly active in combating this scourge. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u329	For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u330	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Despite all the awareness-raising actions that have been carried out over time, and especially in recent years, we continue to be constantly confronted with situations of violence, which can be of various kinds and fall upon anyone. We believe that the information actions carried out have contributed significantly to a greater understanding of the people on this issue, promoting both the reduction of situations of violence and the greater knowledge by victims of the rights they have. Thus, we believe that awareness and information actions aimed at preventing and combating all forms of violence, including domestic violence, dating violence, violence against the elderly, violence and discrimination in the workplace, violence in the school environment and violence through new technologies, should be intensified. In view of the importance of raising awareness among young people about these issues, we argue that the actions carried out in the context of dating violence, violence through new technologies and violence in the school environment should be developed, in particular in primary and secondary schools and higher education institutions. In view of the particular vulnerability of victims, national campaigns should be promoted and the counselling work carried out by the security forces with older persons should be intensified, warning them in particular of situations of economic and financial violence, such as situations of ridicule. Finally, we understand that the National Plan for Gender Equality, Citizenship and Non-Discrimination, the National Plan for Prevention and Combating Domestic and Gender Violence and the National Plan for Prevention and Combating Human Trafficking, as important instruments of intervention, should be the subject of an extended debate, confident that the finding of solutions to these problems will be more effectively achieved with the contributions of all.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u331	Mr Vania Dias da Silva has the floor now for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u332	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I begin by saying that it is regrettable that we are now returning to this debate. This debate is recurrent by the repetition of the numbers, but not by the recurrence of the lack of response of successive governments who have dealt with this matter with it willingly, but unfortunately, the issue has not been debated, like all of us here in this Chamber — and I repeat, everyone! - We did. in this regard this government has made an effort that we welcome, but the fact is that the figures in the last RASI are again worrying that last year there were almost 1,000 more domestic violence occurrences. Despite the numbers of homicides having decreased, the truth is that the number of occurrences remains too high. It is true that 2017 is the year in which a series of plans are completed by the previous government, and among them the V National Plan for Gender Equality, Citizenship and Non-Discrimination. That is why, even though we know that the Government is already working on this issue—we have still had a hearing with the Minister, who told us this very day—we recommend that a new plan be presented, as we know it will be, by the end of 2017, and that it is obviously preceded by the evaluation to be made, in the sense that the necessary correctness should be made later. We want to highlight—because if it were just this would obviously be redundancy—to two things in particular. The first is dating violence, which has been a very treated subject in recent times, precisely because it begins to arise, being worrying that people of such young age begin to have problems of this nature, and that one should not focus only and only on university education, because the problems start before, and it is necessary to be aware of this. The second is related to homicides, so that a capable study is made, after the findings of the Retrospective Analysis Team of Homicides in Domestic Violence. This team has been in office for almost a year and will be in operation when the new plan has to be made and therefore it is important that the findings of this team are already taken into account in the prevention of marital homicides. In addition, we tend to mix the issue of child-parent violence with domestic violence and, perhaps, it is worth taking a break here for — and this is not a certainty, it is a question — we all do a test on whether or not child-parent violence should be treated differently from domestic violence. Its genesis is different, its questions are different and, perhaps, it is worth looking at one and another reality differently and therefore treat it in a diversified way. We need to understand whether it is worth doing this or not, because the truth is that child-parent violence has also increased, and much, and we have not been able to answer this matter. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u333	There is also a question related to the electronic bracelets and that has to do with coercion measures to remove the aggressor from the victim. Over the past six years, electronic bracelets have always been used as a coercion measure to remove the victim’s aggressor and, in this year, the use of electronic bracelets has decreased. What we ask is that this decrease be assessed by the government, in order to realize why, having increased domestic violence, the use of electronic bracelets has decreased. We ask: what is the reason? Isn't it effective? Why isn't it effective? What happened? Is there a lack of means? It's not used because it's not possible to use, why is there no means for that? We need to understand what is behind it and we also recommend it to the government. What is more, we will not stop insisting on this matter. I thank Mr President for the time-consuming tolerance he has given me. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u334	For an intervention, Mrs Elza Pais has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u335	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. and Mrs Deputies : Domestic violence is rooted in civilizational values of deep gender inequality, difficult to remove and guiding boys for aggression and girls for submission. The PS has always been and will be in front of this fight against domestic violence, domestic violence and marital murder. in this legislation, including a new law, which resulted from a project submitted by the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, which aims to urgently regulate parental responsibilities to protect children in situations of domestic violence, empower the victims and strengthen the dialogue between the courts. This is a persistent phenomenon that has been fought 20 years ago in a way continued by all governments and the PS has registered this fight as one of its main priorities. All the draft resolutions presented here are going to meet the work, without delay, which the Government is doing in the fight against gender-based violence. The government has already opened crisis centres for victims of sexual violence, who did not exist; it has opened specific care rooms for LGBTI victims ( lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transsexuals and intersexuals) who did not exist; it has already opened a shelter for men, who did not exist; it is strengthening the prevention of recurrence; it is strengthening the victim support networks and territorialization of actions, so that Bragança does the same and has the same type of support as in Lisbon; and it has created the National Campaign against Violence in Namoro. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the evaluation of the plans is being made in time at the time when it has to be done. The new cycle of plans is being prepared in time, where it must be prepared, in a dialogue with non-governmental organisations of the IGC Consultative Council (Commission on Citizenship and Gender Equality), where it has always been and will continue to be. As Mr Deputy Minister told us at the last hearing at 1. the Commission will also be introduced changes for better in these plans, plans that will be more comprehensive, more integrated and more structured to also be more effective. Rest: there will be no void and the government, just like the Socialist Party, while there is only one murdered woman, will not stop acting and will not stop acting on two levels, with laws, always! , but also with measures that alter these difficult behaviors to remove, because they create aggression. Finally, I wanted to say that all the recommendations that are being made are generally neutral, because the actions are already being carried out. But there is something that no project speaks of and which is also being done: education for citizenship. As you know, a road map for citizenship will reach 160 municipalities, involving 400 entities and has already reached 8,000 participants.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u336	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u337	I will finish, Mr. President. For us, violence and education are the two sides of a coin. One cannot be promoted without fighting another. And what is said in the projects to the government is that he is on the right track, that he continues to do what has been done: zero tolerance to gender violence! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u338	For an intervention, Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u339	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For refusal of the CFP Parliamentary Group, draft resolution No 812 / XIII ( 2 ) does not appear on the agenda of today's plenary session. ( a ) submitted on Monday by the PSD. We regret this, but that does not prevent us from presenting our proposals. If there is an issue which sensitizes each and every Member of this Parliament, it is equality. Here we see the stability of public policies developed by previous governments, which is essential for the fight against all manifestations of inequality to be consistently and permanently blocked. One of the most important instruments is that of the national plans which are under the responsibility of the area of equality and whose coordination and monitoring is the responsibility of the IGC (Commission for Citizenship and Gender Equality) within the framework of citizenship, the promotion of gender equality, the fight against domestic violence and trafficking in human beings. Monitoring the implementation of the measures provided for in these national plans is essential for the effective practical implementation of these instruments, as well as for their assessment, both periodic and final. In the previous Parliament, the Government has always sent Parliament the interim reports on the implementation of these plans, enabling the Assembly of the Republic to obtain systematic knowledge and monitoring of the implementation of the measures provided for in each year. We commend and welcome the legislative initiatives that are under discussion today and that are going to meet, of course, what the PSD has done and proposes today. It is essential to inform Parliament of the mid-term and final evaluation of the implementation of national equality plans and their continuity through new plans that deepen the policies that have so far been developed. Moreover, the new generation of plans should necessarily take into account the statistical data that have been published, particularly in RASI, with a strengthening and greater public investment in areas that are most vulnerable. For all this, the PSD advocates that interim evaluations of the implementation of national plans coordinated by the area of equality be sent annually to the Assembly of the Republic until 31 March. The PSD also argues that the final assessment of the implementation of these national plans shall be submitted to the Assembly of the Republic by the end of the first quarter of the following year. Finally, considering that we are moving towards the end of the current national plans and, taking into account the relevance of the areas dealt with here, we hope that these policies will be continued, drawing up in due course a new generation of national plans. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u340	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u341	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing a number of issues with regard to national plans to combat domestic violence. The rate of implementation of the plans, which has also been very significant over the past few years, and the recent interim evaluation reports which have been submitted to the Assembly of the Republic confirm this, leaves far beyond the percentages of implementation of the plans the importance of their implementation and implementation of their concrete measures. Many of the projects we are discussing and the proposals that are on the table already stem from the application of the law and from the one that has been the normal work of monitoring the Assembly of the Republic. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we can discuss the anticipation of the deadlines. The PSD did not want to comply with deadlines and rules that are established and now says that the problem is the PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u342	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u343	It was planned to deliver the draft resolutions until Monday lunch time, but the PSD did it in the afternoon and now says that the problem is the PCP. It's not! Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes, I also tell you that, if the discussion is about the delivery of the plans on 31 March or 30 April, the issue is not so damaged, until there are other projects that also go exactly in this direction. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is obvious that the implementation of the plans is crucial to the success of policies to combat domestic violence, but there are issues beyond the strictly administrative issues arising from compliance with the plans. For plans to be fulfilled, there must be organizations and people who execute them. For this, there needs to be stability in financing institutions, there needs to be monitoring of projects and there needs to be stability in projects themselves. For this reason, we cannot only talk about the existence of campaigns without realizing what stability is in the financing of these campaigns. As long as all these measures and all these policies are financed solely through the Community funds and not through the State budget, with stability and anticipation of their implementation, these matters will be increasingly difficult. The PCP always warned about it. It is important to ensure stability in financing the institutions and it is necessary to ensure the stability of the projects, under the penalty of being on the table proposals that are very important and that have a role, in some cases, indispensable, because many of these measures replace the State itself in the implementation of the projects, which may not be fulfilled. I also want to say that national plans provide for various measures, but there are matters that are unavoidable and the State has specific obligations in eradicating all forms of violence against women and, in particular, domestic violence. We can keep talking about violence in love. As long as there are no psychologists in schools in sufficient numbers, this will be a fundamental problem. We can continue to talk at the beginning of the victim's follow-up. As long as there are no psychologists in primary health care, these problems will continue to accentuate. from the PCP side, we objectively follow the principle that the various draft resolutions on the table are based on, but we are aware of the following: more important than defining the anticipation of a deadline of delivery of an evaluation report is to guarantee material and human resources to public services to ensure the monitoring of victims and their protection. The CFP will, of course, vote in favour of the various projects, but will continue its efforts to ensure that, at the level of education, health, social security and justice, there are material and human resources to ensure that the fight against domestic violence is not limited to speeches and passes on to acts. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u344	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of this item on our agenda. the next item is the motions for resolutions 47 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Peru for the Protection, Conservation, Recovery and Return of Cultural Property, Paleontological, Archaeological, Artistic and Historical, Stealing, Stealing and Illicitly Exported or Transferred, signed in Lisbon on 19 November 2012, and 48 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of South Africa on Scientific and Technological Cooperation signed in Durban on 28 August 2015. Before we enter the voting period, Mr Duarte Pacheco will read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u345	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted to the following legislative initiatives: proposals by lein. 73 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — regulates the automatic exchange of mandatory tax information on previous cross-border tax decisions and prior transfer pricing and tax arrangements by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2015 / 2376 and Directive ( EU ) 2016 / 881, which falls to 5. the Commission, and 74 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Regulates credit recovery funds down to 5. the Commission ; draft resolution No 816 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Defends the completion of the construction of the Diogo Lopes de Sequeira Basic School ( CCP ), which falls to 8. the Commission ; and Parliamentary assessment No 36 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 36 / 2017 of 28 March, which establishes the Office for the Prevention and Research of Accidents with Aeronaves and Railway Accidents, and terminates, by merger, the Office for Security Research and Railway Accidents and the Office for the Prevention and Research of Accidents with Aeronaves ( PCP ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u346	Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. We shall then enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot do so will have to signal to the Bureau and then make the presence, so that their presence at the meeting is considered. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 206 presences, to which are added those of the Members. Deputies Susana Amador, Helena Roseta, Renato Sampaio, Carla Tavares, Francisca Parreira and André Pinotes Batista, PS, and Amadeu Soares Alberaria e António Leitão Amaro, PSD, perfezing 214 Members present, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes. Let's start with vote No 281 / XIII ( 2. a ) — Despite the death of Antonio Augusto R. da Silva Gomes — 1937 - 2017 ( PSD and CDS-PP ). The PSD Parliamentary Group called for Mr Luís Campos Ferreira to read this vote and the Bureau considered it very well. You have the floor, Mr. Luís Campos Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u347	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last April 10th, Antonio Silva Gomes. It is considered ‘the historical name of Portuguese advertising’ and ‘the unmistakable brand in the history of advertising in the 20th century’. He began his professional career in the mid-60s, became partner of the oldest national advertising agency, Manuel Martins da Hora, where he had spent at other times Fernando Pessoa, which soon became the target of the interest of multinational McCann Erickson who proceeds to his acquisition in 1980. He has been President of the McCann Portugal Group for more than two decades since then. He was also Vice-President Senior of McCann Erickson Europe and launched the International Advertising Festival in Portuguese. This group has developed in several specialized companies and divisions, becoming one of the largest recruiters and trainers of frameworks in the areas of advertising and communication. It was a school company in Portugal. Antonio Silva Gomes was also Vice President of the Sport Lisboa e Benfica and Administrator of the respective SAD. A man of a strong character and winning personality, of culture and the arts, was the soul of many of the ads that are part of our collective memory. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary on 21 April 2017, expresses its regret at the death of Antonio Silva Gomes and addresses to his relatives, friends and admirers his sincere condolences».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u348	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to vote No 282 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Despite the death of Alberto Carneiro ( PCP ), which will be read by Secretary Sandra Pontedeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u349	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Last March 15th died in Porto, at the age of 79, Alberto Carneiro. Born in S. Mamede do Coronado, in 1937, comes from a humble family and begins to work as an apprentice in one of the various shrine workshops that existed in the village. Start here its primary contact with the sculpture, embodied in the practice of cutting the wood of popular images, but also in the work with stone and ivory. In 1961, he enrolled in the sculpture course of the Escola Superior de Bellas Artes do Porto ( ESBAP ), which ends in 1967, leaving the following year for London and coming to attend Saint Martin's School of Art. He was a professor of Sculpture at the School of Fine Arts of Porto, in the 1970s, teaching and artistic director at the Circle of Plastic Arts of the University of Coimbra, between 1972 and 1985, and a professor at the Faculty of Architecture at the University of Porto. During fascism, Alberto Carneiro was a member of the Regional Port Commission of the National Political Prison Relief Commission. It integrated this unitary structure and gave strength to anti-fascist resistance, supporting those who fought for democracy and freedom. He participated in Alternative Zero, a collective exhibition organized by Ernesto de Sousa in 1977, which brought together a group of young artists who began working in our country under the echoes of the Revolution of 25 April 1974. It was distinguished several times throughout the career, among others, with the National Prize for Sculpture( 1968 ) or the National Prize for Plastic Arts of the International Association of Art Critics ( 1985 ). Recognized nationally and internationally, he continued to have in the village where he was born his residence and his place of work. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary on 21 April 2017, expresses its regret at the death of Alberto Carneiro and addresses his condolences to family members. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u350	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us turn to vote No 289 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Despite the death of Maria Helena Rocha Pereira ( PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and PSD ). I would like to ask Mrs Idália to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u351	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote on the motion for a resolution is as follows: « Born in Porto in 1925, Maria Helena Rocha Pereira died last April 10, at the age of 91. Graduated and PhD in Classical Studies at the University of Coimbra, in 1956, with the thesis Hellenic conceptions of happiness beyond : from Homero to Plato, she was the first female doctorate at the University of Coimbra and the first female professor professor of that university, where she taught until she retired in 1995, having maintained herself for decades like the face of the classical studies in Portugal. He specialized at Oxford University and published more than 300 books and articles in Portugal and abroad. Among his best known works are the two volumes of the Classical Culture History Studies, his compilations of Greek and Latin texts, and the translations he made of the great tragedies of Sophocles and Euripides, works that made him more responsible for the dissemination of classical culture to several generations. In his honour the Eng.o António Foundation of Almeida has instituted the award that brings his name. She was awarded several times, for example in 1989, with the P.E.N. prize. Clube Inglês de Essay, by the work New essays on classic themes in Portuguese poetry or in 2006 with the Latino Trophy Prize, of the Latin Union. In 2010 he received the Literary Life Prize, awarded by the Portuguese Writers Association. at a time when immediacy prevails and when the study of classics is relegated to a minor plane, Maria Helena Rocha Pereira continued to educate us for what believed to be essential: that Humanity should fight for the primacy of thought and that the study of Latin and Greek in education is basic to perceive the contemporary man. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Maria Helena Rocha Pereira and addresses to its relatives, friends and admirers their feelings of sympathy in the conviction that their legacy is perennial and that the present and future generations will still have to learn from what it leaves us».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u352	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I now ask Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro to proceed with the reading of vote No 290 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemning and regretting the terrorist attack in Paris ( President of RA, PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and PAN ).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u353	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « At the beginning of last night, the Champs Elysios, in Paris, were the stage of another terrorist attack claimed by the so-called ‘Islamic State’. The shooting resulted in the death of a police officer and the injury of two others, as well as the death of the attacker. Security forces and services have, in fact, been in the front of prevention and counter-terrorism. We also do not ignore that the attack took place on the eve of the first round of a presidential election, aiming to disturb its realization. We are sure that this objective will not be achieved, our solidarity with the French people, the police authorities and the institutions of French democracy is total. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, once again reaffirms Portugal's commitment to preventing and combating terrorism globally and expresses its most vehement condemnation of yesterday's attack, conveying its greatest sense to the family of the deadly victim, to the authorities and to the French people. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u354	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute's silence with regard to the regrets that have just been read. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now entering a debate on votes Nos 288 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Of regret and condemnation for the attack in Aleppo ( PSD and CDS-PP ) and 285 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemning the terrorist attack in Aleppo ( PCP ). As you know, there is a total time of 4 minutes for debates and parliamentary groups to manage the times as they understand. Let us, at this first stage, discuss only these two votes about Aleppo. Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u355	Mr President, briefly, I would like to say that we have tabled this vote, because we consistently condemn all the attacks, all the attacks, all the terrorist attacks on one side or the other. What surprises us, then, is that there is a vote here today, too, and well, that one week ago did not condemn an attack on chemical weapons. For us, it's not like that. For us, the situation in Syria is not black and white; it is an extremely complex situation where there are five belligerent factions, which go from Kurds to the Islamic State, to the regime, to the rebels, to the Sunni rebels, to the Sunni rebels... Finally, it is a very complex situation with regional powers involved, with interests of international powers that support these same regional powers. It is not a black and white world, but any attack, whatever it is, with this gravity in which many people, especially children, have died, must be condemned and we do not distinguish between each other. We are not aligned with one another; we are for human rights and for peace in Syria. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u356	Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u357	Mr President, we would like to say, from now on, that there is no doubt that we will vote in favour of the vote tabled by the PSD and the CDS, but we have to say two things about that vote. This vote, at no time, refers to a terrorist attack and it was good that this attack was qualified as such, but it is not. It is said to be an attack in Aleppo. And it's an attack that fell from the sky... It's just you didn't even realize where it came from...! For the PSD and CDS, which were so widely held a few days ago assigning direct responsibilities for an attack whose authorship was never internationally and independently verified, this attack fell from heaven... It is not even a terrorist; it is an attack. It happened, it's not even said where those people were... these people were surrounded by terrorist groups, which are, aseptically, designated by VV. Ex. As rebels, they sought refuge. And take refuge where? In Aleppo! Why?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u358	And how did you vote last week?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u359	Because Aleppo was released from these terrorist groups. That's what you don't say! [[PCP applause.]] And they don't say, because they know perfectly well that the authors of this heinous attack, which killed 126 people, including 68 children, are such rebel groups that have the explicit support of the US authorities...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u360	You are no longer communists; you are Shiites!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u361	... and from several countries of the European Union. [[PCP applause.]] That is why this is a vote that does not attribute responsibility to anyone. The attack happened, you know why, you know where...! He fell out of the sky! That was not the case, and responsibility must be attributed to those who have it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u362	Ah, this time you know who it was...! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u363	Mr President, I would also like to refer to vote No 284/ XIII ( 2 ). a ), presented by the PCP, of great concern for the escalation of bellicism that is occurring in recent days. We have witnessed the bombing of Syria by the United States ; we have seen the test of a bomb called 'the mother of all bombs', which we say, using a language that we consider to be very questionable at least, but it is a bomb of extraordinary power ; we have witnessed a escalation of confrontations and destabilization on the Correia peninsula ; we have witnessed threats of preventive military aggressions and even nuclear weapons use; we have witnessed a significant increase in military spending, the installation of anti-missile systems at the borders of Russia and China, the disturbing pressures of bellicism and a bellicist rhetoric, which threatens to be responsible for serious regional conflicts and, even for global conflicts, and we can not fail to express our extreme concern for this escalation, which is not only rhetoricalized, as we have seen, but has very concrete expressions of bellicist attitudes. We believe that this demands on this Parliament, on the part of all those who care about peace in the world, a concern and condemnation very vehemently of this kind of attitudes that globally threaten peace on our planet. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u364	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u365	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Almost daily events in Syria must deserve our condemnation, solidarity with the Syrian people and sorrow for the lives lost. But we are witnessing, in the Assembly of the Republic, repeatedly, the attempt to introduce each of the events into two narratives which are, in themselves, contradictory, one pro-Assad, another against Assad, and we wanted to demarcate us from these attempts to interpret simplistically what happens in Syria. We have already said in the past, I repeat today: there is not only one bad tape in the terrible events of Syria. Assad has committed war crimes, but also the United States, Russia and terrorists have committed war crimes in Syria and we have not withdrawn any of the convictions, none of these are innocent. The innocent are those who have died from bombs that fall daily in Syria. There's no dialogue with bombs! In the dialogue with bombs there are only deaths and most of them are civilians—men, women and children—who die indiscriminately. And that is why we insist on what we have said from the outset: there must be respect for the Syrian people, their freedom, their self-determination and their assurance that they will not be players in a game of this geopolitics which, in practice, has only sacrificed their lives. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u366	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote No 288 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — The regret and condemnation of the attack on Aleppo ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[It is as follows: Last April 15th, a bus column carrying evacuated populations from war zones in Syria suffered an attack that caused the death of 126 people, including 68 children. These deaths add to many thousands of civilian victims of this conflict, which, over recent times, have devastated the country and its populations, with responsibilities for the various belligerents involved and without the international community being able to end the war and the humanitarian drama resulting therefrom. The situation in Syria requires dialogue and intervention by the international community and, at the same time, ensuring the evacuation and protection of the many refugees that this conflict has caused. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret and condemnation for this further attack on civilians, expressing its vote for the Syrian conflict to have a peaceful solution as in the interests of its people.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u367	We turn to the vote on vote No 285/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Condemning the terrorist attack in Aleppo ( PCP ). [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN, votes against the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PSD and 9 members of the PS (Carla Sousa, Carla Tavares, Francisca Parreira, Hortense Martins, João Soares, Marisabel Moutela, Sofia Araújo, Vitalino Canas and Wanda Guimarães).]] [[It is as follows: Last Saturday, April 15, 2017, a cruel terrorist attack in Aleppo against a column of buses carrying evacuated populations from war zones, under an agreement made under international mediation, caused the death of 126 people, including 68 children. These buses transported civilians who wanted to leave the villages of Al-Foua and Kefraya, surrounded by armed terrorist groups that promote war in Syria, and sought refuge in Aleppo, recently released by the Armed Forces of the Arab Republic of Syria. This attack is part of the war of aggression and destabilization that the Arab Republic of Syria and its people have been victims for about six years, perpetrated by armed groups promoted by the United States and its allies in Europe and the Middle East, who are responsible for heinous crimes, gross violations of human rights, death, suffering and destruction, millions of displaced persons and refugees. A war of aggression that, in the path of the wars of aggression and destruction of Iraq and Libya and by disrespecting the most fundamental rights of the Syrian people and international law, aims to destroy the Syrian State, with its sovereign, independent, multicultural and pan-Arab position. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its most vehement condemnation of the terrorist attack on 15 April in the vicinity of Aleppo, causing 126 fatalities; it expresses its solidarity with the people of the Arab Republic of Syria; it hopes to achieve a negotiated solution for peace in Syria, respecting the sovereignty and territorial integrity of that country.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u368	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u369	Mr. Eurico Brilliant Days, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u370	Mr President, to inform the House that I will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u371	I see that Mr. Vitalino Canas asks for the floor. Is it for the same purpose?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u372	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u373	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. Mrs. Members, let us turn to the debate on vote No 280 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Condemning the persecution of the LGBT population in the Republic of Chechnya ( BE ). Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u374	Mr. President, simply and directly, because the vote is quite clear, there are complaints of the persecution of the LGBT community (Lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender) in Chechnya, of the creation of concentration camps where these people are assaulted, tortured, beaten and even suffering electric shocks. So what we propose is that there be a repudiation of this situation and solidarity with these people. If some people think that this is a matter of lesser importance, I only call attention to the statements of the Prime Minister of Chechnya when asked about this matter. To the question: "But are homosexuals being persecuted in Chechnya? "There is no homosexual in Chechnya and there is therefore no possibility of persecution. Now, this shows prejudice, homophobia and the way these people’s rights are being denied and we must therefore stand up to repudiate this situation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u375	Mr Trigo Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u376	Mr President, I just wanted to say that the PS follows this vote from the Left Block. We know that during World War II, during the Third Reich, in Germany, homosexuals were persecuted, sent to concentration camps, were killed to thousands. That this happened between the 30s and 40s of the 20th century is already quite horrifying; thinking that this happens or can happen in the 21st century is even more horrifying. Federica Mogherini, High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, said it is essential to carry out effective and comprehensive investigations on the information of kidnappings and murders of homosexuals in the Republic of Chechnya, in the Caucasus. The PS has a known tradition of fighting for freedom of sexual orientation and gender identity. Even last week a gender identity law was adopted at the Council of Ministers which will enter this House and therefore we could not stay away from this situation and we strongly support this vote of the Left Block. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u377	The Bureau no longer registers for interventions. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on vote No 280 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Condemning the persecution of the LGBT population in the Republic of Chechnya ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP and the PCP's abstention.]] [[It has been reported, in several international media bodies, that the Government of the Republic of Chechnya, an autonomous region integrated in the Russian Federation, will have opened a concentration camp for LGBT population. According to reports of victims and complaints from Russian human rights groups, dozens of homosexuals were arrested and held in captivity in an old military barracks in the Chechen city of Argun, where they were tortured by beating and using electric shocks. So far, three deaths have been recorded. This attack on human rights is part of a more general policy of continued persecution of the LGBT population carried out by the Government of the Republic of Chechnya. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, condemns the persecution of the LGBT community by the Government of the Republic of Chechnya and calls for the release of all citizens arrested.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u378	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u379	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u380	Mr President, in order to inform you that, with regard to this last vote, the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u381	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We turn to votes Nos 283 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Repudiation of the actions of interference and destabilization against the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela and of solidarity with the Venezuelan people ( PCP ) and 287 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemning the worsening situation of instability and insecurity in Venezuela ( CDS-PP ). Mr Sara Madruga da Costa, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u382	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What happens in Venezuela, where there lives 1 million Portuguese and Luso-descendants, many of them originating in Madeira, is a tragedy. In Venezuela everything is missing, everything that is most basic can be imagined: bread, food, medicines, water, light, security. In Venezuela the demonstrations end with prisoners, dead and wounded. In Venezuela, the offence of opinion is punishable by beating and imprisonment. In Venezuela there is the imminent danger of civil arms and incitement to violence. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, no one can be indifferent to the gross violation of human rights in Venezuela. Today is the day to call for peace, restraint, respect for human rights and a peaceful and democratic solution for Venezuela. It is necessary to defend the separation of powers, institutional respect and above all the people of Venezuela. But we can only point out that it is shocking that the PCP has the courage to present a vote to defend a dictatorial political regime instead of defending the Venezuelan people and the Portuguese people who live there. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u383	Who has established commercial relations with Venezuela three years ago? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u384	The PCP is bleaching what's going on in Venezuela. To talk about external interference is to be complicit in Venezuela's anti-democratic regime. It is shocking that the PCP continues to put an outdated, antiquated and outdated ideology in front of human rights. We are talking about Venezuelans and more than a million Lusodescendants and Madeirans who suffer from this regime. It is unacceptable that a party that is part of a government solution, a democratic country like Portugal, should be placed next to a dictatorship. For PSD the choice is simple: the PCP is on the side of the Venezuelan regime, the PSD is on the side of the Venezuelan people. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The PCP chooses to defend the dictatorial regime, the PSD chooses to defend democracy. The PCP is on the side of the Marxist and Leninist principles, the PSD is always on the side of the defence and dignity of human rights. There is no greater value than that of the dignity of the human person. With this vote the CFP is complicit in a regime that spreads poverty and hunger, which conditions freedom and oppresses the people. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, April is not hungry, April is not poverty. On the four days of April 25, it is sad, very sad, to see the PCP defend values opposed to 25 April. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u385	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulo Pisco.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u386	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The economic, social and political situation in Venezuela brings us all the greatest concerns about the speedy way in which it has been degraded and out of control. There are no arguments or political devices that excuse or justify the trials the Venezuelan people are experiencing. Among the Venezuelans we have to look closer to the vast and influential Portuguese community that, being a vital pillar of the economy, holding much of the trade and food distribution, is being particularly affected. The situation in the country, as a Venezuelan editorialist said recently, is from true descent to hell: breaking food goods and medicines, total failure of health services, uncontrolled inflation, public disorder, lack of energy, brutal increase of violence and crime, political repression. This reality cannot be masked by the argument that all evils are caused by external interference. The Portuguese Government has been monitoring the situation and has sought to provide the possible answers in such a complex, difficult and unpredictable context as what is currently living in Venezuela. I stress here that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said repeatedly that the Government is ready for all eventualities. We call on the Venezuelan Government to do everything to ensure the return to democratic normality, so that social, economic and political rights in the country can be guaranteed, thus also ensuring the security and protection of the entire Venezuelan people and, of course, the security and protection of the Portuguese community. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u387	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u388	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Of course, the CFP manifests total solidarity with the Portuguese community residing in Venezuela, which, like the people of Venezuela, is the victim of interference actions,... [[PCP applause.]] ... destabilization, of the misinformation campaigns, in fact, today very clearly patented in the statement by the PSD Member, but also in the statement of vote that the CDS presented here. In fact, the CFP presents its initiatives against these actions of interference, destabilization, opportunism and instrumentalization of the Portuguese community by the CDS and the PSD. That is why the CFP here presents its initiatives, is in defense of information about campaigns against destabilization that the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u389	I ask you to finish, Mrs Deputies, you have wasted your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u390	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, the PCP presents here its initiatives in defense of information about campaigns against destabilization that the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela has been suffering for several years,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u391	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u392	... by Trump administration and by other previous administrations. [[PCP applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u393	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u394	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As has been said here, in Venezuela everything is missing, even bread is missing. And in so many bakeries whose owners are Portuguese, there is no flour, because inflation in the case of flour has shot at 900 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u395	For boating!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u396	According to the honourable Members. Members, it is the interference of the United States or those who do not accept the great political, economic and social achievements of the chavista revolution. And we ask: what results and achievements? What the chavista regime has achieved in Venezuela was that a country, the richest in Latin America, which has the world's largest oil reserves, is in misery, is in misery, chaos empire, there is no order, there is no security and crime is a reality every day. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u397	For those you support!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u398	That is the great achievement, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! Do you also want to talk about the political results? Oh, my God! What is the political outcome? The political result is that those who oppose him are persecuted, imprisoned, beaten or killed. That is the great political victory of your regime in Venezuela! Ingestion? Oh, my God! But what interference? Oh, my God! [[Protests by Members of the PCP Ana Mesquita and Carla Cruz.]] I ask you, Madam Member: who won the elections in Venezuela? Who won the elections? [[Protests from PCP MP Carla Cruz.]] It was the opposition, with two thirds!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u399	The elected President!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u400	He had almost 60%! Are all Venezuelans ingesting? Oh, my God! They're not!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u401	There's an elected president!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u402	What does the Venezuelan opposition ask for? Ask for free elections, ask for fair elections,... [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u403	There's an elected president!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u404	... asks for the release of political prisoners,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u405	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u406	... asks for democracy, calls for freedom of expression, demands respect for the separation of powers, calls for parliamentary immunity and, in the face of chaos, calls for humanitarian aid. This is the reality in Venezuela and your position is a shame! This is not a novelty, nor is it anything extraordinary. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u407	You're an accomplice to the hitters!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u408	What happens in Venezuela is not a rare or extraordinary case, what happens in Venezuela is what happens whenever real socialism,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u409	You're an accomplice to the hitters!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u410	... whenever the Soviet empire, which you continue to believe exists, whether in Syria or Venezuela, takes power. When Marxism-Leninism governs, what happens is misery, misery, persecution, repression and the absence of public and democratic freedoms. This is no exception! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u411	You are an accomplice to the invasion of the courts in Venezuela!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u412	I wanted to finish, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u413	He is supporting the invasion of the courts in Venezuela! Be registered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u414	...reminiscing Mrs. Deputies João Oliveira and António Filipe the following: yesterday, we saw in the centre of Caracas a remarkable image,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u415	You support the invasion of the courts in Venezuela!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u416	... a woman already at some age, alone, with a boné and a neck scarf with the Venezuelan flag, facing a tank, the courage of the democratic opposition.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u417	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u418	I'm done, Mr. President, but I'm done asking...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u419	You support the invasion of the courts!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u420	It's the extreme right in Portugal!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u421	... to Mr. João Oliveira : does this image remember what? Remember Tiananmen, in 1989! Remember Prague, in 1968! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[Protests from the PCP, having Mr Bruno Dias beaten with his hands at the end of the bench.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u422	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u423	You have always been on the side of the tanks, we have always been on the side of democracy. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u424	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u425	We are thinking of the Portuguese, with the heart of the Venezuelan people and our solidarity is towards the opposition, which will lead to democracy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u426	He has already far exceeded his time, Mr President. You really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u427	... as the Portuguese people took in 1975 when you wanted to do the same in Portugal. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u428	Back to the gates! You're forgiven!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u429	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u430	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that the first conclusion we can draw is that, after such an extreme debate on this subject, at a distant ocean,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u431	It was the extreme right that just spoke!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u432	... we understand how extreme the position and social situation in Venezuela is. I would like to reiterate again what I have already said today, i.e. that the Assembly of the Republic, almost every fortnight, is being used to interpret international events,... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... with political wills and narratives that are not linked to these events. When Mr Telmo Correia or Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa say here that PSD and CDS were always on the side of freedom of expression, I wonder, where they were, when the Left Block here demanded the condemnation of persecution of political prisoners in Angola and were silent? Oh, my God! You shut up, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations from BE.]] Shut up! They said nothing! Wasn't it freedom? Oh, my God! Wasn't it democracy that we demanded? Oh, my God! Wasn't it freedom of expression? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations from BE.]] Well, after all, for some, it's not for others.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u433	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u434	Mr President, I end with two ideas, if I may, still use the time available to me, saying that, yes, it is true that in Venezuela there is the largest oil reserve in the world and, yes, it is true that, because of this, Venezuelans and Venezuelans have seen international instrumentsalizations that have resulted in coup d'états and deaths. And so, yes, it is true that too many times there has been international interference in that country and anyone who denies this is denying history. [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u435	Now, yes, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u436	Therefore, demanding that the Venezuelan people be able to exercise democracy in a sovereign way, irrespective of international economic interests and in the defence of their own interests, is the first of the needs.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u437	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u438	But, yes, it is also true, Mr President, that we must demand respect for democratic decisions and that the rule of law...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u439	It is true that you have spent a lot of time on your time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u440	... be in fact exercised in Venezuela. We shall therefore vote in favour of the two votes in question. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u441	Mrs. Members, let us then begin by voting No 283/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Repudiation of the actions of interference and destabilization against the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela and of solidarity with the Venezuelan people ( CFP ) for which the separate vote in paragraph 1 was requested by the NAP. So we started by voting point 1 of vote No 283 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] We shall now vote jointly on points 2 and 3 of that vote. [[Subject to the vote, with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and PS André Pinotes Batista, Eurídice Pereira, Hortense Martins, Jorge Lacão, João Soares, Porfirio Silva, Sérgio Sousa Pinto and Vitalino Canas, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens and the PAN and the PS abstention.]] [[The vote is as follows: for several years the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela has been the victim of external and internal interference and destabilization, including campaigns to misinformation and manipulate public opinion, including on the so-called 'humanitarian crisis', aimed at overthrowing the government led by Nicolás Maduro and interrupting the democratic and progressive process, of sovereign affirmation and of cooperation, which has been the protagonist of this Latin American country. The actions of interference and destabilization have been increasing by seeking to instrumentalize sectors of the Venezuelan population, taking advantage of difficulties and negative effects felt by the Venezuelan economy, resulting largely from the drop in oil prices, the economic crisis that is felt worldwide and the systematic action of economic and financial boycott, including the first-needed gender landing and the speculation of prices. The operation of political, economic and social interference and destabilization is sensitive to the stability, security and peace in that Latin American country and is responsible for the worsening of the problems currently affecting both the Venezuelan people and the Portuguese community that lives there and seeks to instrumentalize. A coup-like operation that is promoted by the sectors that in the United States and Venezuela have never accepted the political, economic, social and cultural progress achieved by this country in the last 18 years and the Venezuelan people's will to break with a past of neoliberal policies — responsible for the impoverishment of millions of Venezuelans — and to build a future based on economic and social development that favours the improvement of the living conditions of the people and not the submission to the interests of the United States and an oligarchy that intends to reposition the country. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session: 1. Repudiated the actions of political, economic and social interference and destabilization against the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela; 2. Reaffirms the right of the Venezuelan people to decide sovereignly on their path of development free from any external and peaceful interference and pressure; 3. It expresses support and solidarity for the Portuguese community that lives in Venezuela, which, like the Venezuelan people, is the victim of the campaign of interference and destabilization.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u442	Let us now vote on vote No 287 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Condemning the worsening situation of instability and insecurity in Venezuela ( CDS-PP ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP and PAN and votes against the CFP and the Greens.]] [[It is as follows: The evolution of the political and social situation in Venezuela has dramatically worsened in recent days. The images of violence and disorder that befall us periodically reveal this instability and institutional tension between the Venezuelan authorities and the opposition and appear to be resulting in a loud deterioration of human rights, an undesirable constitutional and democratic regression and the brutal repression of the Venezuelan regime against the opposition protests. In Caracas, the confrontation between the Venezuelan forces and the opposition has so far reduced the death of three people and the detention of more than 500 people. The interruption of a constitutional and democratic process is always an alarming circumstance. As such, we should pay particular attention, for the rupture of political and social order represents a serious and dangerous risk, with disastrous humanitarian consequences not only for the people of Venezuela but also for the vast community of Portuguese and Luso-descendants that reside there. Portugal should work together with the European partners to demand that the Venezuelan authorities immediately cease violence against democratic dispute, because only the containment of violence could enable the restoration of constitutional order, allowing a country, so decisive in the region and with more than two centuries of history, to avoid any spectrum of armed conflict. The decision of the Nicolás Maduro regime to set up more than 500 000 civilians and train pro-government militias and paramilitary groups to violently contain the public challenge is particularly worrying in this context. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic: 1) Condemns the worsening political and social situation in Venezuela and the serious disruption of democratic order, with terrible consequences for the Venezuelan people and the Portuguese community living in that country; 2) Urges the Venezuelan authorities to establish and contain violence and respect the rights of democratic opposition, restoring constitutional order in Venezuela; 3) Calls on the Venezuelan authorities to enable the international humanitarian organizations to act in support of the poor.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u443	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u444	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u445	Mr President, it is only to inform me that I will present a statement of vote on the votes that we have just held.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u446	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Paulo Neves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u447	Mr President, I would also like to inform you that I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u448	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on vote No 284/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Rejection of the worsening international situation and call for peace ( CFP ). With regard to this vote, the NAP also requested a separate vote on point 1. We shall therefore vote on point 1. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] We shall proceed to the vote on points 2 and 3 of the same vote. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes in favour of PS, PS, BE, PCP, The Greens and the PAN, votes against the CDS-PP and abstentions by the members of the PS André Pinotes Batista, Carla Tavares, Francisca Parreira, Hortense Martins, Sofia Araújo, Vitalino Canas and Wanda Guimarães.]] [[The vote is of the following content: The world has been confronted in recent weeks with a dangerous worsening of the international situation, as a result of US-led military actions — accompanied by its allies and the coverage of a broad information campaign — which raises the greatest concern for its serious and unpredictable consequences for security and peace. Seeking to affirm its hegemony worldwide, disregarding the principles of the United Nations Charter and international legality, the United States is drifting away from threats, provocations and military interventions against sovereign States that place the world in the face of the imminent of devastating regional conflicts and even a conflict of world proportions. The bombing of Syria with missiles, the testing of a bomb in Afghanistan, the escalation of confrontation and destabilization of the Korean peninsula, the threats of “preventive” military aggression and even the use of nuclear weapons, the significant increase in military spending, the installation at the borders of Russia and China of anti-missile systems are disturbing expressions of US belligerent action, which, particularly in the Middle East, East Europe and Asia-Pacific, is taking place globally, including in Africa and Latin America. Having regard to the Constitution of the Republic, the Assembly of the Republic meeting in plenary session: 1. Repudiates the war, interference and wars of US aggression against sovereign States in flagrant violation of the principles of the Charter of the United Nations and international law; 2. Calls for the dismantling of international relations, the peaceful resolution of international conflicts and respect for the sovereignty and independence of States; 3. It urges the Portuguese Government to fight, in particular in the UN and other international bodies, against any belligerent drift and war of aggression, for respect for the Charter of the United Nations, for disarmament and peace.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u449	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u450	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u451	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will present a statement of vote on votes Nos 283 to 288 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u452	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Eurídice Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u453	Mr President, I would also like to inform you that I will present a statement of vote on the votes of 283, 284 and 285 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u454	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. You now have the floor to Mrs. Wanda Guimarães.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u455	Mr President, I use the floor exactly for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u456	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Carla Tavares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u457	Mr President, in the same way, I would like to announce that I and Mrs Francisca Parreira will present a statement of vote on votes Nos 283, 284 and 285 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u458	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We are now entering the debate period on vote No 286 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Condemning the limitation of freedom of association and scientific and academic research in Hungary ( PS ). Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u459	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Indeed, it is no longer within Europe that we need to be concerned about the growth of populism — and the populism that often presents traces of worrying authoritarianism — that is within the European Union, which unfortunately we find very clear signs of a deterioration in the functioning of institutions and the safeguarding of fundamental freedoms. In particular, this vote aims to emphasize what is happening today in Hungary as regards the guarantee of academic freedom and which cannot go without repudiation from the Portuguese Parliament. There are other examples and there have been other opportunities in which we have highlighted particularly worrying traces of what happened at the political headquarters of refugees and migrants, what happened at the level of freedom of the press and freedom of expression, what happened at the level of democratic pluralism in a country which is a Member State of the European Union. And it is not something that we can take lightly, in the sense that it is indeed a partner of the European Union, because it is a fundamental country of enlargement to the East, it is a country with which the European Union must be able to count, but it is a country that is indeed a friend of the Portuguese Republic, cannot fail to carry out essential repairs, when it is desperately failing to defend fundamental freedoms, protected by the common constitutional traditions of the countries of the European Union, protected by the Charter of Fundamental Rights, protected by the European Convention on Human Rights, and which, unfortunately, are today unprotected in Hungary. That is why we cannot let it go blank and we must emphasize the need for a change in the direction and a clear change in policy in the context of fundamental freedoms in Hungary. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u460	Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u461	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD Parliamentary Group condemns the limitation of freedom of scientific and academic research in Hungary. In fact, it was Youth Social Democratic the first political structure in Portugal to react to the recent decision of the Hungarian Parliament. This is a decision that deeply affects the free functioning of a specific university which will be prevented from operating in Hungarian territory from January 2018. The freedom and integrity of research is one of the pillars of excellence of research in the European area. To limit or condition, in any event, freedom within the European Union directly runs counter to the defence of the values of the Union to which all its Member States are obliged. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u462	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote No 286 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemning the limitation of freedom of association and scientific and academic research in Hungary ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[It was recently adopted by the Hungarian Parliament, and now signed by President János Áder, the Lex CEU. This will profoundly affect the free functioning of the Central European University, a centre of academic excellence and innovation that has been promoting the exchange of students for over 25 years, the deepening of scientific knowledge and the link between Hungary and the rest of the world. The set of new obligations presented will prevent the CEU from operating in Hungarian territory from 2018, which constitutes a direct opposition to the freedom of scientific and academic research as set out in Article 13 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. The freedom and integrity of research is, moreover, one of the pillars of the quality and excellence of research in the European area, which is fundamental to the increase and deepening of knowledge leading to development and social and economic progress, as well as to the improvement of the standard of living and the well-being of citizens in the European Union. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, condemns the recent amendments adopted by the Hungarian Parliament which constitute a direct opposition to the freedom of scientific and academic research enshrined in Article 13 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u463	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u464	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u465	Mr President, to inform us that we will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u466	Of course, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, let us now vote on draft resolution No 813 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, within the framework of the national reform plan, adopt a set of measures to enable Portugal to be placed on a sustained path of economic growth and employment ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] Mrs. Members, we turn to the vote on draft resolution No 814 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Stability Programme 2017 - 2021 and national reform plan ( CDS-PP ) ( the operative part was replaced at the author's request ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u467	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u468	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u469	Mr President, in order to claim the regiment figure of oral vote, on behalf of the Socialist Party, which will be made at the appropriate time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u470	Of course, Mr. Deputies. That claim must be made after the end of the voting period. Mrs. Members, we have two requests, asking the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea to be discharged, without a vote, for a period of 60 days, one, submitted by the PS, on the proposals for lein. 65 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter the legal regime applicable to logging and re-arborrowing actions, 66 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates the national land bank and land mobilization fund 67 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates tax benefits for forest management entities by amending the Statute for Tax Benefits and the Rules of Procedure for Registration and Notary, 68 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Change the National Forest Defense System against Fires and 69 / XIII ( 2. a ) — Creates a simplified cadastral information system ( the text was replaced at the author's request) and another, submitted by BE, on the projects of lein. 464 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establishs a legal regime for logging, re-arboring or afforestation ( BE) and 500 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates the public agricultural land bank ( BE ). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote on these two requests. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we shall generally vote on Bill No 63 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the European Criminal Investigation Decision by transposing Directive 2014 / 41 / EU. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] This bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We shall, in general, vote on Bill No 64 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Regulates the Lophoscopic and photographic judicial identification. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]] This bill goes down to 1. the Commission. Mrs. Members, we shall generally vote on Bill No. 484 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 5 / 2008 of 12 February 2008 approving the creation of a database of DNA profiles for the purposes of civil and criminal identification and first amendment to Law No 40 / 2013 of 25 June approving the Law on the Organization and Operation of the DNA Profile Database Monitoring Board ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] This bill goes down to 1. the Commission. Mrs. Members, let us vote on draft resolution No 774 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote and enhance the practice of physical and sporting activity by creating a status of the student sportsman ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 799 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a student-sport status, ensuring social and academic rights and valuing sport practice ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We moved on to draft resolution No 802 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government define a set of policies inverting the current situation at the West Hospital Centre ( PS ) for which the CFP requested a separate vote on points 1, 2 and 3 to 8 together. Let us then vote on point 1. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and against BE, PCP and Les Verdes.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 2 of draft resolution No 802 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the NAP and with abstains from BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] We now turn to the vote on points 3 to 8 of the same motion for a resolution. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we shall generally vote on draft law No 499 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Nationalisation of the social capital of the New Bank, SA ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on Bill No. 504 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Determines the integration of the New Bank into the banking public sector and defines its conditions ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, let us turn to the vote on draft resolution No 798 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Dissatisfaction by the New Bank's sales decision without consulting the Assembly of the Republic ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the CDS-PP abstention.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote on draft resolution No 804 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Determines the integration of the New Bank into the public banking sector ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 806 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government renegotiate the conditions of the State loan to the New Bank Resolution Fund ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 775 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a firm, active and comprehensive action in the defence of religious freedom ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSDP, the CDS-PP and the PS Member Antonio Cardoso, votes against the PCP and the Greens and abstentions from PS, BE and PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u471	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u472	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u473	Mr President, to announce to the House that I will make a written statement of vote on the vote we have just made.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u474	Of course, Mr. Deputies. Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on Bill No. 419 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Revokes the foundational regime and establishes a model of democratic management of public higher education institutions ( first amendment to Law No 62 / 2007 of 10 September 2007 establishing the legal regime of higher education institutions ) ( PCP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PS and the CDS-PP, votes in favour of BE, the PCP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 501 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Change the legal regime of higher education institutions by introducing parity, strengthening the democratic functioning of universities and extinguishing the foundational regime ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PS and the CDS-PP, votes in favour of BE, the PCP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u475	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u476	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u477	Mr President, to announce that, on behalf of the people and on behalf of the honourable Members. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, Mr Ivan Gonçalves and Mr Diogo León, I will present a statement of vote on these two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u478	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. If there are no objections, we will vote together on draft resolutions 716 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Programme, sensitize and disbursate to combat domestic violence ( The Greens ), 800 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to prevent and combat domestic violence ( BE) and 807 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of measures to prevent and combat violence ( NAP ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 811 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the approval of a new national plan for gender equality, citizenship and non-discrimination and the evaluation of the results and effectiveness of the application of electronic bracelets in the context of domestic violence ( CDS-PP ) ( the operative part was replaced at the author's request ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, let us turn to the vote on motion for a resolution No 47 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Peru for the Protection, Conservation, Recovery and Return of Cultural Property, Paleontological, Archaeological, Artistic and Historical, Stealing, Stealing and Illicitly Exported or Transferred, signed in Lisbon on 19 November 2012. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Let us now vote on motion for a resolution No 48/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of South Africa on Scientific and Technological Cooperation signed in Durban on 28 August 2015. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 492 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Programme of specific actions related to remoteness and insularity ( POSEI ) ( PSD ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceeded to the vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Education and Science on draft resolutions Nos 501 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish a recruitment group for Portuguese gestual teachers ( BE ), 504 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Portuguese gestual language be included in the range of existing curriculum enrichment activities ( BE ), 505 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the provision of teaching Portuguese gestual language to students and students in reference schools for the bilingual education of deaf students ( BE), 561 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — By valuing the Portuguese gestual language ( PCP ), 564 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures for a higher quality school for deaf students ( CDS-PP ), 567 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Development and promotion of the Portuguese Gestive Language ( PS ), 569 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Guarantee of an inclusive school by promoting the gestual language(The Greens) and 754 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a Portuguese Gestive Interpreters Exchange in order to ensure the accessibility of public services ( PAN) and the authors of these diplomas withdraw their initiatives in favour of the replacement text. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we still have to vote for an opinion from the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, and only then will there be a statement of vote by Mr Ascenso Simões. Thus, by Mr Duarte Pacheco, Secretary, please read the opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u479	Mr. President and Mr. Members, at the request of the Human Resources Department of the Institute of Social Security Legal and Content Support Centre — Disciplinary Case No 4 / NAJC / 2016 — the Ethics Sub-Commission issued an opinion to authorize Deputies Pedro Mota Soares ( CDS-PP ) and Pedro Roque ( PSD ) to intervene in the process within the framework of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u480	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is no objection, let us vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] You now have the floor for an oral vote, Mr Ascenso Simões.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u481	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: 'Christism' is restless, but it is inconsequential. [[Earrings from the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]] This was the case in the debate on the national reform plan and the Stability Programme. Mr Pedro Mota Soares, from that rostrum, asked « take the Programme to vote », Mr Nuno Magalhães, of his place, asked « take the Programme to vote », the CDS forced the plan and the Programme to go to vote and with his carnival weapons hit the steel wall... [[Steel wall?Oh, my God!]] [[Steel wall?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u482	... where this majority has become. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u483	« Force, force, comrade Vasco »!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u484	That's a truth...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u485	Come back Basque, you're forgiven!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u486	I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, and certainly we are all tired, let the speaker make his statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u487	...that it is difficult to hear from the two sides that are on my left, but it is true that it remains today, after this vote. Mr President, we have a national reform plan that clearly identifies priorities for the coming years, priorities that relate to our economy, economic growth, the reduction of unemployment, the reduction of deficit, the reduction of debt, the improvement of Portuguese living conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u488	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u489	These are the circumstances in which we have made this debate, these are the central pillars of the action of the Socialist Party Government, supported by the parties on our left. Mr President, there is also a circumstance which must be mentioned in this debate, which has led the CDS to step into the submission of proposals and to leave behind a discussion and an inconsequential vote. [[CDS-PP protests.]] That is why, Mr President, the Socialist Party has to mention, in this vote statement, that the country has won with this vote and the parties to our right have once again lost its political proposal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u490	Mr Pedro Mota Soares also took part in an oral vote. What has been customary is the announcement of oral explanations of vote to be made at the time of the vote, because we cannot reopen the debate right after that moment. However, I have been consulting the Rules of Procedure and I have made sure that nothing says about this. So it seems to me that this is once without an example, as it is usually said, I am going to give the floor to Mr Pedro Mota Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u491	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u492	Mr Nuno Magalhães, leader of the CDS-PP bench, intends to make an inquiry to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u493	Mr President, we will be very pleased to discuss this matter and even to remedy this possible gap at the Conference of Leaders. I would just like to clarify that the CDS did not say it orally, but it was written at the time when Mr Ascenso Simões also entered. So make it clear that there is no favour treatment here. However, I would like to say that we are available to discuss what is needed at the next Leaders Conference. We've discussed worse things!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u494	Exactly. You're absolutely right! That is, in fact, quite true truth. [[Laughing.]] Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor, then.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u495	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Voting is the way will is expressed in a democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u496	Well, well! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u497	We can have many words, but it is at the time of the vote that each of the parliamentary groups gives or does not support and, in the specific case, from our point of view, the stability plan and the national reform plan could and should be greatly improved. And this is very important, because it allows, for example, those who oppose the government on Tuesday and Thursday — it is the case of the benches in front of me — to arrive here on Friday and effectively demonstrate what they are: the support of the government, the support point for the government. [[CDS-PP applause.]] And, even there, there are those in the Socialist Party who call you «the steel wall».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u498	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u499	Bring your anti-nancelvism there!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u500	The steel wall, we all remember, was that expression used to support Prime Minister Vasco Gonçalves. It was exactly the expression that the Socialist Party remembered to set up this new majority that we have in the House!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u501	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u502	Not so much, not so much!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u503	Mr Ascenso Simões, with friendship, just wanted to remember that you started quoting the steel wall but will still end up quoting the iron curtain. But this time, you're going to stay on the side of the iron curtain. by the way, don't stand on the side of freedom! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and CDS-PP.]] But there is another great advantage in this vote, ladies and gentlemen. Members : the CDS has come to this debate with proposals and ideas.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u504	He's ripped them off!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u505	We put forward proposals that we wanted them to be extensive, robust, prepared, from areas ranging from the growth of our economy to the internationalization of the economy, education, urban rehabilitation, the social state—in its social security dimension, but also in its health dimension—to the family, to birth...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u506	You've wasted your time, Mr. Deputies. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u507	All these proposals had exactly the same treatment from the Socialist Party: they deserved a lead. In that sense, you say very well who you want to be effectively your majority and who have no willingness to discuss any other idea that is different and that comes from another political area. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-21.u508	We are thus at the end of our work. It is left to inform me that next Tuesday, beginning at 10 o'clock, will be held the Solemn Commemorative Session of 43. the anniversary of 25 April and the following Wednesday beginning at 3 p.m. shall take place under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure, the fifteen-year debate with the Prime Minister, followed by the preparatory debate of the next European Council, under Article 4(1) ( a ). the Law of Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union Construction Process. I wish everyone a good weekend and until April 25. Always! The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 41 minutes.]]
