ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 3 minutes.]] I ask the authorities to open the galleries to the public. I am now going to give Mr. Secretary Paulo Alves the floor to do the right thing to account for the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the projects of lein.o 466 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Third amendment to Decree-Law No 308 / 2007 of 3 September establishing the financial support programme Port 65 — Rent by Youth ( Port 65 — Youth ) ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 467 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amend the General Law on Public Works, excluding the Judicial Police and the Foreign and Border Service from their scope ( fifth amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June ) ( CDS-PP ), 468 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Defines the legal regime of psychology in the school context and the recruitment and placement of psychologists in public educational establishments ( CFP ), which goes down to 8. the Commission, 469 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Setting of housing and meals prices to public higher education students based on the social support indexer ( CDS-PP ), 470 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the system of penalties applicable to discrimination due to disability by amending Article 240. the Criminal Code ( CDS-PP ), 471 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Penal Code by strengthening the fight against racial discrimination ( BE), 472 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Review the legal regime of impediments enshrined in the Civil Code, reviewing the time limits applicable to the celebration of marriages ( PS ), 473 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Automatic indexation of the maximum meal and accommodation prices for students in higher education than the indexer for social support ( PS ), 474 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Ensures the individual freedom of each person to enter into marriage by eliminating the period of time provided for in Article 1605. the Civil Code ( PAN ), 475 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Establish conditions for equality between workers in career progression by managerial option ( PCP ) and 476 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Suspends the arrangements for updating the value of meals and the addition of accommodation in public higher education institutions ( CFP ). They also entered the Bureau and were admitted, Bill No. 63 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the European Criminal Investigation Decision by transposing Directive 2014 / 41 / EU and Parliamentary assessment No 33 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) ( PCP ) — Concerning Decree-Law No. 28 / 2017 of 15 March, which amends Decree-Law No. 132 / 2012 of 27 June, amended and republished by Decree-Law No. 83 -A / 2014 of 23 May, and amended by Decree-Law No. 9 / 2016 of 7 March, and Law No. 12 / 2016 of 28 April, establishing the recruitment and mobility regime of teaching staff of basic and secondary schools. They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, draft resolutions 766 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Outermost regions ( PSD ), which fall to 4. the Commission, 767 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Elimination of the collection of tolls on the Via do Infante ( The Greens), 768 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt a management model for the Center for Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation of the South that it responds to the actual needs of the users of the National Health Service served by that specialized unit ( PSD ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 769 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government deepen collaboration between the Portuguese Air Force ( FAP ) and the National Civil Protection Authority ( ANPC ) in relief, rescue and, in particular, in combating forest fires ( CDS-PP ), 770 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Multi-year commitment to greater investment in the National Health Service ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 771 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government assess the first 10 years of coexistence of regulated tariffs and tariffs liberalized in the electric sector and promote additional measures to protect the energy consumer ( PS ), 772 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government strategic lines of action on development and investment plans in the energy sector ( PS ), 773/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government give priority to investment in renewable energy without guaranteed tariffs in regions with the most potential and lack of investment ( PS ), 774 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote and enhance the practice of physical and sporting activity by creating a status of the sports student ( PS ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 775 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a firm, active and comprehensive action in the defence of religious freedom ( CDS-PP ), which goes down to 1. the Commission, and 776 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Plan to re-qualify and modernise the Vouga Valley line ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, and 777 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government consider the benefit of road accessibility to the Municipality of Barrancos ( PSD ), which falls to 6. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u3	The first item on the agenda is political statements. To that end, on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Edite Estrela has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Europe is our common future. It was this objective that led the six founding countries to sign the Treaties of Rome. Sixty years back, this same objective has motivated 27 countries, from the north, from the centre, from the south, from the east and from the west of Europe to subscribe to the Rome Declaration. Between these two events, we live the longest period of peace, democracy and prosperity of European history. Now it is necessary to respond to the challenges of the present and the future, meeting the needs and expectations of citizens and ensuring greater economic convergence, greater cohesion, more sustained growth, greater job creation, higher quality employment, greater solidarity among all of us, as underlined by António Costa. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would like to commend our Prime Minister for having made the Declaration reaffirm the need for the European Union to promote equality between men and women. It is never too much to remember that women's participation in the political, social and economic sphere is indispensable for social progress and that women's participation in the decision-making process is a requirement for modernity and a condition indispensable for strengthening democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today, March 29, 2017, will remain in the history of the European Union as the day Brexit began. The day when, for the first time, the European Union does not extend but shrinks. Two years of complex negotiations follow. The consequences for the United Kingdom and the European Union are unpredictable. But nothing's gonna stay like you did. Sixty years of peace, democracy and prosperity cannot be overshadowed by five years of austerity and sacrifice. Citizens must understand that the world also needs a strong, coherent and prestigious European Union on the international scene, which deals with global challenges and the resolution of world conflicts. It is necessary to draw up teachings from the past in order to prepare for the future. Aristotle already said that « if you want to understand anything, observe its beginning and its development». where we leave, where we are and where we want to get there is a reflection that everyone calls. Before the crisis, the European Union was building on enlargement and deepening. The successive enlargements have always been accompanied by the strengthening of cohesion policies, which makes every sense because countries are not all equal, have distinct stories, priorities and needs. The problem of the European Union is therefore not speed but direction. We have long lived with different speeds, the countries of the euro area and the countries of the Schengen area to mention only the most significant ones. With regard to the scenarios proposed by the President of the European Commission, however, it should be clear that no Member State will be excluded from enhanced cooperation if it is in a position to enter and that is its political will. There are those who point their finger to the bad project of architecture of the single currency and all successful monetary unions were also economic and political unions. Since there is no single currency which resists Member States which finance the zero rate and others at very high interest rates, it is urgent to accelerate the process of deepening economic and monetary union ( EMU ) and that its social pillar is as demanding in the objectives outlined and in the capacity of intervention of European institutions as the budgetary pillar. And it is necessary to deepen the European social model and adopt a new mobilization speech to counter the populist and demagogic discourse of the European extreme right,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u5	And on the left!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u6	... which says what many disenchanted and insecure citizens want to hear. Demagogy and populism emerge and grow where there is fear and uncertainty. Conquering the confidence and heart of Europeans is the great challenge we have in the immediate future. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this week has been confirmed that the budget deficit was 2, 06 % of GDP. The lowest of our democracy. A historic fact that will allow Portugal to leave the procedure due to excessive deficit, the legacy of the former Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] The same government which guarantees that there is no alternative to austerity. The same government that made gross cuts in the State's social functions and which, due to the deficit, cut subsidies, increased taxes, reduced pensions, privatized strategic sectors, sold to the scrapping everything that was sellable, and failed to reduce the deficit. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] The PS Government has already shown that there is an alternative and has proved that it is possible to reduce the budget deficit, restate wages and pensions, increasing the minimum wage and reducing taxes. Good news for Portugal, badly received by those who proposed to reduce the deficit with the zeal of the Crusaders against the infidels and failed. And even today good news has come too. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u7	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u8	I will finish, Mr. President. According to Banco de Portugal, GDP is expected to grow 1, 8 % in 2017, returning to 2008 levels, exports will fire 6 % and unemployment will continue to decline.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u9	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u10	Mr President, at a time when the implementation rate of the Portugal 2020 programme reaches 50 %, it is time to prepare the negotiation of the Community funds after-2020. Negotiation which will be all the more fruitful and successful if supported by a great national consensus.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u11	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u12	That is what we expect from the oppositions and all the parties represented here.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u13	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u14	Like the poet would say, it's time. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is time for everyone to assume their responsibilities and make choices, without forgetting Jean Monnet's warning.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u15	Mrs. Deputy, it's time to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u16	And because we reject the past and do not want to return to a divided and war Europe, our choice is clear: we want a more united, more competitive and more supportive Europe, a Europe of people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u17	Madam Member, I apologize to you, but indeed the times are to be fulfilled. Four honourable Members have signed up to request clarification. Ladies and gentlemen. I don't know how Mrs Edite Estrela wants to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u18	First, I respond to the first two requests for clarification and then to the other two.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u19	You have the floor, first of all, Mrs. Regina Bastos.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u20	Mr President, Mrs Edite Estrela, I congratulate you on your mention of the 60 years of the Treaty of Rome, because that is why we are both definitely on the same side. With regard to other recitals, I will not comment on the present and future of two Europeans, representatives of two sides who, over the years, have affirmed their European vocation and the deepening of European integration, must defend the day when, for the first time in the history of the European Union, a Member State begins negotiations to abandon it. Today, it is not a happy day, as the President of the Council said, Tusk ; today, it is not a happy day for Europe and it is not a happy day for the United Kingdom. And, if it's a not happy day for Europe, it's a sad day for Portugal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u21	We have a mission that is not everyone's in this Chamber. We, PSD and Socialist Party, unlike the Left Block and the PCP, but with the support of the CDS-PP, have a future to build in the European Union. We must make our contribution to a stronger, more solidarity, more cohesion and with greater social justice. That is what we are being asked to do. This is what the White Paper presented by the European Commission expects from Member States that were at the forefront of building such important achievements as the four freedoms of movement, the euro, social justice, support for climate policies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u22	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u23	The Portuguese hope that we will defend their interests in the UK now that negotiations begin. The States, our State, our Government must support the Portuguese citizens in the United Kingdom.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u24	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u25	Mr President, Mrs Edite Estrela, to conclude how does she feel, as a Europeanist, with the support of her Government, the Socialist Government, on the part of two parties that are against Europe? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u26	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs. Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Edite Estrela, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on your political statement and also thank you for your opportunity to discuss a little more what came out of the Rome Summit at the 60th anniversary of the signing of the Treaty of Rome. The Left Block, already this week, had the opportunity to debate this issue, also with the Socialist Party, and, in fact, what the Summit brings us, above all, is a demonstration of irresponsibility and cynicism on the part of the European institutions, which, unfortunately, are already getting used to. The honourable Member has indicated that since the signing of this Treaty we have lived the longest peace period in the European Union. It is true, but over 60 years we have made an agreement with Turkey to « shake the water from the hood » in the responsibilities we have as Europeans and in the fulfilment of international law, in terms of the protection of refugees, and a new agreement with Libya is already envisaged, which also goes in a completely opposite direction to the alleged values of peace and solidarity. He also spoke of economic convergence, which has always been an important engine of this supposed European construction. however, despite such economic convergence, the truth is that European growth and the European project have lived at various speeds to date. So far we have a certain platoon in front and several platoons that are following according to the circumstances, which does not, in fact, have any credibility. And the five scenarios recently presented by the European Commission and President Juncker indicate exactly this lack of credibility in the current European project. We have several scenarios and all culminate in it, which is the perpetuation of the institutional crisis, of the value crisis that the European Union is currently living in. Several speeds, just one coin... none of this has credibility. We know — and the Portuguese people know well — what has happened in recent years under many of the measures that have been implemented to comply with certain rules...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u28	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u29	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, we know — and the Portuguese people know well — what has happened in recent years under many of the measures that have been implemented to comply with certain rules that we had to comply with, unlike other countries, that they did not have to do. Therefore, this European Union is actually disaggregated. And that better time than this to ask: after all, this reject from extremisms,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u30	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u31	... is this reform of the euro area worth or is it just going to be another proclamation of meanings? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u32	In reply, Mrs Edite Estrela has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u33	Mr President, Mrs Regina Bastos, I would like to thank you for your question and also start by saying that I agree with you when you say that today is not a happy day for Europe nor for any of the 28 Member States, including the one on the way out, the United Kingdom. But it is necessary to minimize costs, because, as I said, the consequences are unpredictable, and to control the damage. Obviously, I hope that the citizens of the United Kingdom who have chosen this path will be aware of the difficulties they will face. I hope that everything will work out well for you, but if you have to choose between running well for the UK or running well for the European Union, I will be on the side of the European Union because I will be on the side of my country, which is part of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u34	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u35	As for the rest, there are aspects in which we agree, Mrs Deputies, and others in which we disagree, particularly in relation to the positions our respective groups have taken in the European Parliament, which our political families have in terms of the definition of European policies, both in the Council and in the Commission and in the other institutions. For example, with regard to social policies, as you know, your group has not always been as progressive as my group, not always the Portuguese Members have supported our proposals and some of my proposals for the European social model to improve and deepen, so that European women, for example, have more rights or even solidarity with Greece. With regard to your question, I feel very comfortable with the supporters of the Socialist Party Government, the Left Block, the PCP and the Green Party. We converge on what is essential to improve the lives of Portuguese citizens. Our differences in Europe are known, we have never done that taboo and therefore we all know what we count. And the results are in sight: what was recognised today by Banco de Portugal, what has already been mentioned by UTAO (Technical Unit of Budgetary Support), by the National Institute of Statistics, i.e. Portugal goes in the right way and this government solution is going to last. Mrs Isabel Pires, I am also grateful for your question. I want to tell you that...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u36	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u37	I shall then conclude, Mr President, very briefly, by saying the following to Mrs Isabel Pires : we, not today nor in the past, have never lowered the beer in relation to Brussels. The Socialist Party always made his voice heard, our political family always criticized what it had to criticize and supported what it was to support.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u38	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u39	I want to tell you that at the moment we have a Prime Minister in Portugal who is being heard in Brussels, who conditions the European agenda and who does everything to have a citizens' Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u40	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a background noise, especially in the benches, made by the Members and by the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to attenuate yourself, because there are no conditions for you to work like this. I ask the honourable Members and the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen who are standing, speaking, who, if they want to continue to do so, leave the Chamber. Please make the most of silence so that we can hear each other. In order to clarify Mrs Edite Estrela, Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u41	Mr President, Mrs Edite Estrela, the debate on Europe and the European Union is welcome at this particularly complex time that we are living in, but it is important that this debate is not due to the superficiality of any dominant European speech, before, questions the process of European integration, its consequences for the peoples of Europe, the contradictions which it has generated within the Union itself and the difficulties and constraints which it has been representing to countries such as Portugal and to defend the interests of the Portuguese people and Portugal. If we do not question deeply, on its basis, this process of European integration, we enter into that contradictory speech that, after we support the causes, we regret the consequences of what we support and defend.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u42	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u43	It is important that this debate be held and that we wonder why the process of European integration has never caused such great dissatisfaction among the peoples of Europe. Is it not because it has been a process built aside from the will of the peoples of Europe? Oh, my God! Is it not because it has been a process of building a Europe of financial interests, a Europe of capital, apart from what is the sovereign will of the various peoples of Europe? Oh, my God! Madam Member, correcting an error cannot be done through repetition and intensification of that same error. When it is recognised that the process of European integration has led to the crisis that the European Union is currently experiencing, it seems to us that it is wrong to say that the solution to correct this error is to insist on error and to move ahead more quickly. We have fallen a bit into that common place, which is to say « we are on the brink of the abyss and we need to take a step forward».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u44	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u45	We therefore believe that it is important to rethink its foundations.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u46	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u47	I will finish, Mr. President. The final question I want to ask is this: in the face of the constraints that the European Union represents today on national development, how is it possible to solve this problem and to defend national interests, precisely by defending that Europe is continuing and intensifying the path that has been taking so far? Oh, my God! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u48	Mr Pedro Mota Soares also has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u49	Mr President, Mrs Edite Estrela, I would like to tell you that I follow a part of your intervention, the part in which you take account of the European Union and the fact that today is a sad day for the European construction project and for the Europeanists, but there is another part that I do not follow, that is that of the deficits, until the reduction of deficits in Portugal was made, above all, with the effort and sacrifice of the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u50	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u51	The reduction of a deficit of more than 11 % to less than 3 % between 2010 and 2015 involved a great deal of effort and sacrifice of Portuguese, such as the reduction of the deficit to 2, 1 % in 2016, also involved the effort and sacrifice of Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u52	Mrs. Deputy, in her speech, quoted Aristotle. I would like to remind you that, in relation to this matter of the process due to excessive deficits, it seems to me that you have been mistaken in the name. I think the name is another: it's Socrates, it's not Aristotle. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Allow me, Madam Commissioner, to address now the other part of your speech which I consider to be the most important and most important today — in fact, the CDS will also talk about this matter, which has to do with the European construction process. Europe, 60 years after its foundation, is, and continues to be, a space of peace, a space of prosperity, and must be a space of cohesion. for the first time, we have a state leaving the Union, which is certainly not good. But this must lead all the true Europeanists, those who have this spirit, to join together, even to correct the many failures that we continue to see in the process of European construction and, in the head, the failure of today's lack of solidarity between the States and the institutions of the European Union. I understand that this is exactly where the Socialist Party has a problem. Madam Member, I have heard you defend the European Union's space and the area of the euro area. It happens that in Portugal this solution of government is based on four parties, three of which — with nuances, a little bit different — converge on one point: Portugal should leave the euro area.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u53	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u54	This, of course, poses a problem of confidence and stability for Portugal in the European area.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u55	I would ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u56	Mrs Deputy, I would very much like to hear about the fact that the CFP, the Left Block and the Greens are in favour of the exit of Portugal from the euro area. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u57	In reply, Mrs Edite Estrela has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u58	Mr President, Mr António Filipe, thank you very much for your question. Mr President, it is obviously not all right in Europe, obviously not everything went well in the process of European construction. I myself mentioned some of these weaknesses, these weaknesses, including the asymmetries and inequalities that have been generated. In addition, we have put forward proposals at European level to correct these imbalances, such inequalities. I am a convinced Europeanist, but obviously I do not recognize that everything is all right. It's not all right, since we saw the emergence of populism, xenophobia and racism. Where there should be solidarity there are national egoisms, where there should be the participation of citizens, sometimes there is the consecration of some directories. We're against all this and we're gonna do everything to make this state of things change. We proposed that if the offshores were to be ended, we proposed that there should be a tax on financial transactions, that Eurobonds should be created. Therefore, Mr President, this is the way we will continue to pursue Europe's defence of the citizens' Europe. Mr Mota Soares, just outside that you agreed with part of my speech. It is not European responsibility that in the last four years and anything of your governance, the Portuguese GDP(gross domestic product) had declined to 2000 levels, employment at 1996 levels,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u59	So that's the responsibility of the previous government? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u60	... that the generality of the Portuguese had been crushed by the tax burden and by the reduction of wages,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u61	You also have a name: Socrates!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u62	... that there had been a third of Portuguese children at risk of poverty, that young graduates—and many other young people—had to leave the country to have a better chance... It is clear that they are not pleasing to him. Of course, you cannot agree with that part of my speech and therefore invokes arguments which I do not know where they came from. The truth is that you have sacrificed everything on the deficit altar and failed the deficit target, while the PS government has achieved the lowest deficit in Portuguese democracy, while at the same time restoring wages and pensions, at the same time not increasing taxes — even reduced them — while at the same time increasing the national minimum wage, while at the same time restoring the social rights that you have withdrawn. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Pedro Mota Soares.]] You came here to talk about Socrates.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u63	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u64	I should have said, before, « I am with Socrates: ‘I only know nothing’. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u65	For a political declaration, Mr José Soeiro, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In Portugal, there is an entire generation that began to work very early. Many people have been pushed to earn a living since childhood. Compulsory education was not beyond 4. the class, hundreds of thousands of people began to work at 11, 12, 13, 14, 15 years. These people today have far-reaching contributory careers, but the work life they already lead is not considered sufficient to provide access to a pension. In other words, the same society that stole from them at the end of childhood does not recognize them today the right to reform themselves early without penalties. What justice exists in this? [[At this moment, the speaker displayed a granite stone.]] This granite stone was offered to me last Friday, in Peroselo, by workers of the stones of Penafiel. These workers pull out of the ground huge granite-shaped stones and transform them, with the strength of their arms and with blows that only the experience teaches, in the stones of the footwear that we tread every day. These workers almost all started working when they finished 4. the class. When they were 11 or 12 years old, they all worked in the quarry. The hours were long and still today they go beyond what they should. Holidays, few enjoyed them, even when they were in the contract. Diseases, almost all of them. at the end of 40, 41, 42, 43, 44 years of discounts, hard work, breathing the dust of the stone—which destroys their lungs—, working with the noise of the machines and transport, with hands, arms and back wet by the frenetic vibration of the compressors, the body is disfigured. And yet they have to wait another decade to be able to reform themselves. 10 more years of that work, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I assure you that no one can stand. These workers, who began working at the age of 12, but who were off at the age of 14—because the rule was to start discounts only at the age of 14, even when they began working at the age of 11 or 12—, today they are 44, 45 or 46 years of social security discounts. Life has been consumed by the quarry, but they still cannot reform themselves or, if they do, have cuts of more than 40% in their pensions, which would already be low, because the salary has always been low. In Portugal, this generation, which has been forced into what we consider child labour today, deserves to be repaired. Those with long careers cannot be forced to work to the limit of forces and their lives. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u67	That's what happens today. That's what needs to be changed. That is what the Government and the majority of Parliament are currently working on. With the rules of the PSD and CDS, anyone who wants access to the pension has become subject to punitive conditions, which have to end. The amendments made by the right-wing government have provided a double penalty for those who wanted to retire. On the one hand, the age of the reform has grown every year, and on the other hand, the calculation of the so-called sustainability factor has been changed. When, in 2011, it meant a 3% cut, in 2015 it already exceeded 13% and this year is going to be almost 14%. These changes — age of reform and sustainability factor — have led to a double penalty in early reforms, i.e. with the legal age of the reform, also increase the distance between that age and the age that the worker is at the time when he or she requires the pension. This penalty of 0, 5 % per month, that is 6 % per year, adds the sustainability factor. As if it were not enough, PSD and CDS still degraded the bonuses that people with long-term contributions had until 2012. All in all, there were workers who, at the end of a life of discounts, had cuts of more than 50 % in the value of their pension and who, because of these rules, were sentenced to receive until the end of their days a pension below the poverty threshold. The Left Block has always defended the right of access to the retirement pension, without penalties, to 40 years of work or 65 years of age, without prejudice to other special schemes, particularly in rapid wear and tear professions. This principle, which should be accompanied by the diversification of sources of social security financing, would allow the longer-term contribution careers to be valued and would be an essential aspect of the distribution of employment and of combating youth unemployment. This Parliament has already held a debate on the subject, and this reform rule without penalty at 40 years of discount has fallen. The Block then presented a second proposal to repair workers and workers who were pushed into child labour, through a bill that aims to enshrine the right to reform for all workers who started working at 16 years of age or earlier, when they were 40 years of discounts. As you know, the parties of the majority and the government are now discussing a change in the rules of access to reform, with the aim of valuing long-term contributions. For the Block, this is a unique opportunity to do justice to the generation that began working as a child. And it is to this end that we have participated in the negotiations that are under way. The end of the 14 % cut-off, due to the effect of the sustainability factor on all anticipated pensions, is good news. The Block always proposed it and it was now announced by the government. But the change to the rules of early retirement and the protection of long-term careers must meet three other objectives. First: to allow access to reform without penalties for those who began to discount before the age of 16. Those who have worked so early must be compensated.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u68	Sir, you've outlived your time. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u69	Second: to value the careers of those who have more than 40 years of discounts, due to the anticipation of the legal age of reform. Third: to defuse the currently existing penalties for those who ask for early reform. Finally, workers of the Public Administration, i.e. CGA ( General Opinion Box ), cannot be excluded from these rules. To do justice to those who deserve all our respect is the way, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall honour our mandate. [[Congrats from BE and PS MP Sonia Fertuzinhos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u70	Mr Moura Soeiro, three Mrs have signed up. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u71	I will answer one by one, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u72	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Soeiro has brought us, today, a subject of which we still know very little, because the government prefers to meet the closed door with the parties of the'management', does not give us any knowledge and avoids a broad debate on a matter that requires much caution. It's a kind of auction, to see who gives the most. And prudence, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the European Commission has, of course, called attention to the fact that these matters should be considered so as not to call into question the 3000 pensioners.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u74	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u75	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what we need to explain — and what we would like to see clarified — is what will indeed be done. It's just, like I said, we don't know much, but there's certainty we have. The first certainty is that the management parties do not understand each other and that the Left Block has taken advantage of this moment of political declaration to give the government a « draw of ears », because it does not agree with the measures announced, from the very beginning with the concept of career duration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u76	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u77	It's nothing like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u78	The honourable Member has just mentioned 40 years, but that is not what the government has been saying. Mr President, we also know that the Government has undertaken to leave extraordinary transfers from the State budget to social security in 2019. I would like to ask the honourable Member, since he is also in the government, whether these measures are actually going to be complied with and what is the budgetary impact of these measures. Or is this a problem with which you are not at least concerned, because you are already used to who comes next to solve the problems that you create? [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u79	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the country knows that the Government has presented in social consultation the general lines for the revision of the pension scheme anticipated by flexibility of age.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u81	She went to the closed door!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u82	Mr José Soeiro, there is one thing we can say not only to the workers who visited on Monday, but to all the Portuguese workers and workers who started working at 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 years old: today they have a government and a parliamentary majority who will restore justice in the review of the calculation of their pensions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is worth recalling that the current government suspended the regime that applied to these people because it was confronted in 2016, in the first six months, with an average pension value for the applications that existed for these reforms that did not reach the €200.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u83	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u84	Therefore, the regime applied in 2014 condemned many of these workers, who would retire under 60 years of age, to live until the end of their life with less than 200 € of pension. That is, we were condemning these people to poverty for the rest of their lives. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, this Government and this majority have a moral obligation to review this regime and to make justice possible to these people. The revision of the scheme, as presented in social consultation, is based on four fundamental principles: it is morally mandatory; it is fair; it simplifies and makes the rules for access to pensions more transparent; and it is made within the framework of the sustainability of social security. It is mandatory, because it prevents the trap that was being placed on these workers. It is fair, because it removes the double penalty, which Mr Deputy was recently referring to in his speech, protects long-term contributions and seeks to protect 100 % of the very long-term contribution careers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u86	Madam Member, thank you for finishing.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u87	I will finish, Mr. President. It is a review that simplifies and is carried out within the framework of the sustainability of social security. Mr President, my question is whether it is considered that, within these four principles, it will be possible, at the end of the negotiations, to guarantee the justice that these people who started working as children deserve. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u88	You have the floor to answer, Mr José Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u89	Mr President, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, there are several things we already know.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u90	What do we know? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u91	For example, we know that the PSD proposal on early reforms provided for a sustainability factor that increased from 3 % to 13 %, almost 14 %, i.e. a penalty at that level. They were so unfair and penalizing rules for people who made the average pension calculated with the rules of the PSD and CDS were less than 200 €, i.e., as has already been said, below the poverty threshold.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u92	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u93	A worker who applied for early retirement at 55 years of age, for example, with 40 years of discounts according to the rules of the PSD and the CDS, had a penalty, a reduction of 72 % of the value of his pension, I repeat, of 72 % of the value of his pension,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u94	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u95	... condemning that worker to a situation of misery and poverty for the rest of his life. We know that, we also know what the proposals and principles the Government has put forward, but we also know the concerns that the Left Block brings to this debate. What we do not know is whether the PSD has any idea about the matter, because it did not say anything, it did not present any proposal, except to maintain the previous regime which, obviously, is a regime that offends the dignity of people, especially those who have long careers. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u96	Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos, it is in this spirit to value the long careers of contributions, to guarantee the right to pension to those who already have a working life that we are doing this debate. For us, it is very important that workers like those we were with on Friday, who began discounting at the age of 14 and at the age of 15 at the end of 40 years of discounts, may have the whole reform, because this is a way of repairing their childhood that was stolen from them. We are sure — that is our objective — that, in the majority, with the effort and the proposals of each of the speakers, we can actually bring these workers to justice. This is not only our goal, as it is our expectation that, at the end of these negotiations, workers will know that there is a majority that is responding to their lives. That's why we're fighting! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u97	Before we continued, on behalf of the Bureau and on behalf of all of us, I would again appeal to the ladies and gentlemen. Members who created the right conditions so that we could hear each other. To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u98	Mr President, I should like to begin by greeting Mr José Soeiro of BE on the subject which has brought us today for discussion in his political statement. This is a subject which has been put into discussion many times by the CFP, either in the draft law that has already presented in this Parliament, either in questions to the Government, or in 15-year debates, particularly in four of the last five debates that have been held. It is, in our view, a central issue in valuing long-term contribution careers. It is a fundamental issue to do justice to workers who have discounted an entire life for social security, to value the contribution system of social security and also to value the contributing careers of workers who have not had a childhood because they began working.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u99	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u100	The proposal announced by the Government is, of course, a starting point. We understand that it is far from what is fair and what is necessary, but that it allows us to move more forward in measures that are effectively of social justice for these workers. Our starting point is our proposal: the 40 years of discounts, without penalties. That is why, of course, we started with the contribution to building a more just solution, a solution that guarantees the right to reform without penalties for those who started working before the age of 16. We want a solution that advances in relation to social security and workers who have made the social security discounts, but also in relation to workers who have discounted the General Pension Fund. We also want to make a contribution to a solution that will ensure that time increases at the age of reform for careers far over 40 years of discounts. We understand that it is important to value the long careers and rights of these workers. We are available to take a path that, for us, is the most basic social justice: to guarantee these workers the right to reform and rest. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u101	For a final request for clarification, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to congratulate the Left Block on bringing this issue to our attention. But, Mr President, I confess that, when I heard you, we were worried. This is because Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos reminded us that this is a matter that is being discussed in social dialogue and the last time this happened, that is, the last time the Government held a debate in social consultation, we know what happened here in Parliament, and what was the result: it was found that the government had negotiated measures that had no parliamentary support. Now, when we hear Mr from the Left Block, we have the reinforced conviction that this will also be involved here, because Mr José Soeiro referred to several points, either at the age level to achieve the right to reform, either at the level of the discount years, which are in direct contradiction with what was announced by the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u103	Contradiction? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u104	Several points, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u105	And, on the subject, zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u106	I ask the honourable Member the following: is he available to rule on what he has said here before the Portuguese, committing himself to voting against any measure contrary to what is the position presented here today by the Left Block? Or was this another staging today that will soon end? It is important that we know this in order to understand what the government has in social dialogue and so that we do not see again what has happened in the past. Mr President, we remember what the Left Block said when there was a suspension of the anticipation of the reforms! We remember what you said and what was the position of the Left Block at that time! Now, this government measure, from the outset, and to begin with, is already withdrawing the right to advance reforms for those under the age of 60. As soon as we start, it's totally against what the Left Block has always claimed. In addition, he referred to hard-lived workers with long work. I don't know if you've noticed it, but you've made a huge gaff: it's that you referred to the workers who started working when they were 12 years old and who are 60 years old and don't have 48 years of discounts yet. You said here that these people are at most 45, 46 or 47 years old! Now, the government has announced to the country, with a pump and circumstances, as a large measure, that people who were 60 years old who were 48 years old would not have any penalty.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u107	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u108	I will finish, Mr. President. So, honourable Member, my question is this: are you in a position to confirm that what the Government has announced to those who are 48 years old of discounts and 60 years of age is a mistake, because, in fact, this situation does not exist, as it did in its speech? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u109	You have the floor to answer the two requests for clarification, Mr José Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u110	Mr President, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, having been the CDS responsible for the most penalizing rules ever for pensioners, it would be interesting to have heard some idea, some proposal on this matter. I didn't say anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u111	Nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u112	Zero! They have nothing to say to long-term pensioners! [[CDS-PP protests.]] on the contrary, the Left Block, with all transparency, said its four concerns in this debate. First, we want to allow access to reform without penalties for those who started discounting before the age of 16, because we understand that we are talking about a specific group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u113	You guys get it first!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u114	This is a measure of reparation for childhood that has been sacrificed and stolen to these workers. That is the concern we have brought to this debate! Secondly, we want to value the careers of those who have more than 40 years of discounts through an anticipation of the retirement age which, from our point of view, has to have a far greater bonus than the four months that exist today and with limitations. Thirdly, we want to degrade, in these ways, the penalties for those who require early retirement. Finally, we want to ensure that public administration workers are not excluded from these principles of justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u115	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u116	Isn't that what the government is doing? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u117	The Government has presented guidelines that have an intention, which is to value long-term contributions because they were penalized by the PSD and the CDS. I must say that we identify with this concern. The government has presented a concrete element, which is the end of the sustainability factor, which we welcome, because the Block has been defending it for many years. On the other claims of the Left Block, we are in a negotiation process and we are going to beat ourselves so that justice is done to these workers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u118	Say what it's gonna be like!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u119	...because we understand that those who have 40 years of discounts and start working before the age of 16 are entitled to a reform without penalties.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u120	Is that your limit? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u121	That is what we understand must be done. We know that the government's proposal is a starting point...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u122	Will you vote against it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u123	...and will certainly count on the contributions of the Left Block, the Portuguese Communist Party, the Socialist Party. It seems that it will not count on the contributions on the right, but it does not count on them, because we know what the rules on the right mean: persecution, penalization and condemnation of pensioners to poverty.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u124	He didn't answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u125	That was the right contribution. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u126	You have the floor for a political statement on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Mota Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Last day we celebrated the 60 years of the Treaty of Rome. Today, four days later, we face, for the first time in the history of European construction, an application for an exit from a Member State, and then a Member State like the United Kingdom. This coincidence alone should lead us to reflect on everything we can do as Europeans, but also on the failures and omissions of this construction. Europe cannot be built against the identity of States and peoples, far from citizens, unable to respond to their wishes and unable to justify their existence. The perplexity of European citizens in the face of the difficulties that the institutions of the European Union have shown in response to very serious crises is understandable and legitimate. Several times, in the dialogue between the institutions, there was and continues to be no respect for governments, national parliaments or, above all, for the people who still suffer from very demanding adjustment programmes. We also remember that in the last six decades, with the European project, we have been able to build an area of peace, prosperity, the guarantee of democracies in the post-war period, an economic and social model based on dialogue and social dialogue, a model that has represented the greatest commercial power, the largest single market in the world and also a model of support for territorial cohesion and Portugal for a long time benefited from the same matter. But if, on the one hand, we never live so many years of peace and stability, we never live so many consecutive years of crisis, and that cannot and should not be ignored. Europe has lived one of the deepest crises since its inception and this crisis has become so long that it almost makes it seem trivial. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u128	The toughest years of the European economic and financial crisis have fostered feelings of return to a nationalist and protectionist Europe. They have caused a risk of division or perception between two Europes, one from the south, another from the north, or as some want, between debtors and creditors, rich and poor, good and bad. And these feelings are not only aroused by the populists and extremists on the left and on the right; they are often the ones responsible for the European decision-making process, as evidenced by the recent statements by the President of the Eurogroup, the Minister of Socialist Finance of the Netherlands, which shame the spirit of solidarity and European cohesion. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are living today at a time that requires more commitment, greater democratic participation and an in-depth debate on the ways in which Europe must go. No one can honestly predict what Europe would be if, perhaps, the European Union failed, but I do not think it was any good, contrary to what many isolationist voices, in Portugal and outside of it, are saying. We should not forget that the Government of Portugal is based on a parliamentary coalition in which three of the four parties defend the exit of Portugal from the euro area or, quoting the now euphemism of the Left Block, in which « it is urgent to prepare for the exit of the euro ». The Portuguese Minister of Finance, who today(and of, every day, today...! ) you are in London asking for confidence from international investors, you will have to explain to them that you are only a minister because in Lisbon there is a government that they call management — contraption, Mr. Minister will say, in English – that they are based on a majority against the euro, against the European trade agenda and — I don't know if they get to say so, but many think that they think that — against Portugal's own membership of the European Union. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u129	And perhaps that is why investors’ confidence continues to move away from Portugal in such an obvious way. But is this what the Portuguese want? We have seen, in the last elections, that we have seen in all the elections until today, that we have not. The Portuguese want to defend the international reputation of Portugal, they know that we have managed to overcome a very difficult and painful time to regain our freedom and sovereignty as a country and have the good sense of wanting Portugal in the space of the single currency. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the multiple crises in the European Union have a common denominator: lack of solidarity. The demands of our societies cannot always wait for the result of an election, the result of a referendum, or the theoretical discussion of blank scenarios. We cannot continue to see the constant postponement of decisions which are vital to the European Union but which are, above all, very important to Portugal. We do not align ourselves with the speech of those who say that we need more Europe today, until that can mean, in many cases, less Europe. We are talking about a'recalibration' of the European agenda and the adoption of measures which are already more than agreed, but they have been doing so for a long time. I am talking about the realisation of economic and monetary union, particularly with the last part of the banking union, the European Deposit Insurance System, which reduces the risks of the banking system but, above all, guarantees the financing of the economy, which is essential for sustainable, solid growth and is able to continue to generate job creation. I am talking about the enlargement of the Juncker plan; I am talking about the social pillar of Europe and, in particular, the promotion of initiatives that help to counter the high rates of young unemployment, but also long-term unemployment. I am talking about strengthening the full control of our external borders and the restoration of the Schengen system, the cooperation of security services, so that we can tackle the problem of security and terrorism beyond the European border. I speak of the reversal of the chronic delay in energy interconnections between the Iberian Peninsula and France. when we celebrate the 60 years of the Treaty of Rome we must have the ability to explain that the erosion of solidarity at European level also goes through the postponement of decisions that are important to the European Union, but especially vital to a country like Portugal, which today, in view of what it has overcome, should be an example in the European framework and has the legitimacy to demand that Europe be fulfilled in what is its own and concrete. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u130	Mr Pedro Mota Soares, the Bureau has two entries for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u131	Mr President, I shall reply together.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u132	All right. Mr Vitalino Canas of the Socialist Party has the floor for a request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u133	Mr President, Mr Pedro Mota Soares, I would like to congratulate you on bringing here a subject on European affairs. I begin by saying that much of your speech deserves our commendation and I also want to say that it did well to recall the commemoration of the 60 years of the signing of the Treaty of Rome, but could also have referred to the commemoration of the 40 years of Portugal's application for accession to the communities, now the European Union. at the time when this request was made it was seen as vital to ensure the consolidation of democracy in Portugal. It was also understood as vital to ensure the overcoming of the problems that the country was experiencing. More than 30 years after our integration into the European Union, we continue to have the same view. The European Union, as is said in the Rome Declaration, is the only way to achieve the objectives we propose. I would therefore also like to point out that this very Declaration of Rome obviously deserves all our appreciation and praise. This vision does not change with Brexit, as you mentioned. We understand that Brexit should not be devalued. We do not share the optimism of the British Prime Minister, who came to say that the United Kingdom will get better after the negotiations. We think that either the European Union or the United Kingdom will get worse and we know that the United Kingdom itself will still exist, as there is today. We will all get worse and here we have to regret the formal start of Brexit. But we must commemorate the fact that the other 27 Member States continue to pursue the same objectives of origin: the establishment of an area of democracy, solidarity and prosperity. That is what you are doing in the Declaration of Rome, and that is why, Mr President, by congratulating you on your speech and on this subject, I would like to leave our statement of principle here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u134	On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Campos Ferreira has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have been very pleased to hear the CDS bring to this Assembly of the Republic, in a very happy way, which is basically the commemoration of the 60 years of Europe. Europe is more than an economic market, it is a political space that has promoted and contributed to democracy, tolerance, modernity, peace among peoples. It is a space that must be a great joy for all of us. It is a space where we feel well and that has helped Portugal, in the last 30 years, to be a more modern, more competitive and more open country. Who would have given Portugal that, rather than being 30 years of European Community, was 60 years old! Mr Pedro Mota Soares, I ask you the following: 40 years ago, the Socialist Party was on the front line of Portugal's entry into the European Union. But today, over the past 40 years, it is on the front line because it is associated with those who are on the front line of the exit from Portugal of the same European Community and the exit from Portugal of the euro area. This is a huge contradiction. If Europe is so fundamental to Portugal's growth, in all dimensions, if Europe is so desired, why do you not talk about it anymore? Why do you, eyes in your eyes, speak no more about this, with the parties that stand you in power? Are you afraid of losing your face? Are you ashamed to talk to each other about such a decisive and important matter for the country?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u136	Sir, thank you for finishing, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u137	Or this matter, put in this way, as Mr Vitalino Canas did here in Parliament, is not a huge hypocrisy of the Socialist Party? [[Protests by PCP Members Antonio Filipe and João Oliveira.]] Mr President, how can the Socialist Party, with these allies who since the first hour have been against the European Union — since the first hour — not even the result of these circumstances — be able to defend Europe? What political conditions, what credibility does this Socialist Party have, inside and outside, to help European reconstruction?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u138	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u139	Deep down, that was the question I wanted to leave you. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u140	To respond to requests for clarification, Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you very much. Deputies Vitalino Canas and Luís Campos Ferreira. Mr Vitalino Canas, Europe, 60 years ago, was built to be a project of peace and prosperity, a project that guaranteed democracies very especially against the totalitarianisms of the post-war, but when we joined Portugal, on January 1, 1986, it was to guarantee a democratic regime that was new and that it really wanted to assert itself. Perhaps that is why, Mr President, in 1986 there was a number of parties against Portugal's accession to the EEC which today continue to be against Portugal's membership of the European Union,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u142	The CDS was in this group too!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u143	...because, most likely, they do not believe in this model of plural democracy, in that model of participatory democracy, in that model of democracy of European democracies. in this sense, I would also like to reply to Mr Luís Campos Ferreira, saying that we understand why these parties were against Portugal's accession to the EEC and today continue to be against Portugal's membership in the European Union. [[PCP protests.]] Mr President, there is one point we cannot forget. The European Union's response to the issue of Brexit will mark a great deal of how the European Union will be built in the coming years, and this is a very worrying issue. Certainly, the way out of the United Kingdom of the European Union is bad on both sides of the channel. For Portugal it is particularly bad because the Atlantic aspect of the European Union itself is diminished; for the United Kingdom it will certainly be bad, because we see that, from an internal point of view, there is already a request for a referendum in Scotland and we do not know until the kingdom remains united. It will certainly be bad for both sides. But there is another point that I think is the most important, that we should realize that many of the public opinions are often legitimately raised against an excessively bureaucratic Europe, against a Europe where solidarity, as a fundamental pillar in the relationship between States and between States and institutions, has come to corrode. And Portugal today may complain of this lack of solidarity. There is this lack of solidarity, when we have not yet managed to have, for example, the energy interconnection, so important to take Portugal out of the periphery, from an energy point of view, when we have not yet been able to conclude, from the point of view of the architecture of the euro area, a model which guarantees security, from the point of view of the financial institutions, and which, in this sense, helps to finance our economy. There is another issue that concerns us very much, Mr President. And on that, Mr Vitalino Canas, reinforcing the question and also answering Mr Luís Campos Ferreira, the honourable Member says nothing. At the moment, the government solution in Portugal is composed of four parties, a coalition of parties, the parties of the majority, of which three are clearly, with shades or nuances, against Portugal's membership in the euro area.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u144	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u145	And on this matter, the Socialist Party does not say a single word, on this matter, the Socialist Party is silent. And that, Mr President, is of great concern to us because this European spirit which Mr spoke of as a 40-year-old member of the Socialist Party does not seem to me to exist today, because I have never heard Mr when he talks about the populisms that permeate Europe, talk about the populisms that pass through Portugal, particularly the populisms of the parties with which he currently has a coalition in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u146	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u147	And this lack of reference to this matter in the discourse of the Socialist Party, which is so serious and so worrying, makes us seriously concerned. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u148	Before passing the floor to the next speaker, the Bureau shall appeal, and shall appeal again, to the ladies and gentlemen. Members to create conditions for less noise in the Chamber, so that we can work with more appropriate conditions. For a political statement on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The insulting statements of the impromptu President of the Eurogroup towards the people of southern Europe are not an isolated act. With greater or lesser insolence or teariness, we continue to witness daily the most unacceptable pressures and threats to our country from various institutions in the European Union. Announced that it was the achievement of the goals of the public deficit in 2016 and considered imminent the exit of Portugal from the excessive deficit procedure, soon came the European Central Bank, or someone for it, saying that this was not enough to remove Portugal from the threat radar, insofar as « significant deviations in the structural deficit » remain. And the intolerable threat of sanctions, which was thought to have definitely gone through the door, back into the window, now with the pretext of macroeconomic imbalances and accompanied as always by the repetitive avenue of « structural reforms». Definitely, in this process of blackmail and threats, it seems that everything is worth it. at the end of last week, it seems to have reached Portugal the theory and practice of « alternative facts », with regard to the recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box. It seems that there are those who wish that, contrary to what has been done, the recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box is ultimately accounted for in the deficit, so that Portugal no longer leaves the procedure due to excessive deficit. The PSD and CDS came up with this hypothesis and did not hide their joy, although for the time being it was a false alarm. The desire of the PSD and CDS did not come true. It's not like the devil left the door yet. However, even yesterday, another of the recurrent reports from the European Commission, on the non-fiftyth post-adjustment assessment, saying that there is uncertainty about the public deficit target, estimated at EUR 760 million, as if the European Commission had not already shown its total lack of credibility in regard to its accounts on Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u150	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u151	In addition to all this, the gross interference of the Directorate-General for Competition which, not satisfied that the Portuguese State had compelled the Banif to offer Santander at the expense of Portuguese taxpayers, now intends to impose a solution for the New Bank, once again at the expense of the most elementary national interest. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2016, the deficit in public accounts was 2, 1 % of GDP, fully meeting the formal requirements of the European Union. For the CFP, such compliance is not a cause for congratulation. The compression of investment, restrictions on public services and the delay in the replacement of workers' rights are consequences resulting from this option in reducing the deficit.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u152	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u153	It was not the restrictions on public deficit imposed by the European Union and the colossal charges on our taxable public debt, that Portuguese could live significantly better, with better wages, more investment, better public services and more social justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u154	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u155	But the fact that we do not congratulate ourselves is not right for the PSD and CDS. Those who imposed tremendous sacrifices on the workers and the most unprotected social layers in our country, on behalf of a reduction in the deficit that it was necessary to achieve at any cost, and those who increased taxes, cut wages, pensions, rights and investments, and did not even achieve the objectives of reducing the deficit, have no political authority to criticise, much less when using the deficit as a pretext to criticise measures for the replacement of rights and income.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u156	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u157	For the PSD and the CDS, which, already in this legislature, have defended the continuation of endless austerity and have opposed the replacement of rights, wages and pensions and criticized the reduction of the tax burden on labour income, the policy of the replacement of rights and income would always be « caught by having dog and being arrested for not having ». By not meeting the targets of the deficit, it would be criticized for the increase in expenditure and for maintaining Portugal in the procedure due to excessive deficit. Since there has been no breach, it is criticized for being beyond what would be necessary. It was therefore indisputably regrettable that the leaders of the PSD and the CDS expressed their satisfaction with the achievement of the deficit targets, always in the hope that the devil will enter us through the door by the European Commission, the European Central Bank or the Directorate-General for Competition. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: We have to say'sufficient enough! to threats, blackmail and interference from the European Union, on behalf of an ideological agenda aimed at subjugating the weaker countries and condemning their peoples to impoverishment, for the benefit of the economic and financial interests that dominate the institutions of the European Union. It cannot be said that Mr Fulano has no conditions to continue ahead of the Eurogroup. What is needed is to tell you who send the Eurogroup, the European Commission, the ECB and DGComp that Portugal is not a « banana republic ». Portugal is a sovereign state, inhabited by a people who claim their right to self-determination and development, who has the right to fight for their national interests, who has the right to a dignified life, who deserves a minimum of respect and who cannot accept the ignominious submission to which they intend to subject it within the framework of an increasingly distant European Union of the ideals of social cohesion that he allegedly intended to pursue. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u158	Three honourable Members have signed up to request clarification. Members, having Mr António Filipe informed the Bureau that he would reply, firstly, to two Members. Members and then a Member. You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u159	Mr President, Mr António Filipe, it is true and known, it is known from the Portuguese that the Socialist Party and the Portuguese Communist Party do not have the same understanding of the process of European construction. Mr President, we believe in this bench that the fundamental values of the European project are useful in building a Europe of peace and economic and social development. And these values are a heritage that this party and other party-brothers of the Socialist Party have been building. They have been building solutions for a European social model that makes Europe today a continent with 60 years of peace and better living conditions for the generality of Europeans. But let me tell you that there is one aspect in which we converge. And where do we converge? We agree with the idea that, from the point of view of the European institutions, there is prejudice which has led to the application of austerity over austerity in this country, making many of the problems that you have identified in the bank are problems that come from the application of austerity over families and businesses. More austerity over families and businesses results in more problems in the bank, because there is more bad credit and there is more need for recapitalisation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Deputy, on that, let us converge. The Europe in which we believe and want to build and which, to a large extent, is reflected in the Rome Declaration this last weekend is a Europe of citizens, of the social market economy, of an economy that serves the citizens, which generates cohesion and convergence. But let me tell you: we are in the struggle — and we are side by side — for a Europe that respects citizens, that respects all Member States on equal terms and, more importantly, does not apply wrong recipes and that, as you said, insists on the same recipes when we all know that these recipes are wrong. So I'll leave you a question. Mr Deputy, the European project for the Socialist Party has intrinsic value, has the value of peace and development. But let me ask you if we are not confusing this project only with the actors and the policies that some actors wanted to implement in some countries and, in particular, Portugal. It is that more austerity is no longer a European project,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u160	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u161	...more inequality is no longer a European project. The European project is a project of cohesion and convergence, Mr. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u162	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u163	Mr President, Mr António Filipe, your intervention should induce us to reflect on the credibility of the European Union in the eyes of Europeans. I am not talking about the credibility of the European Union in the eyes of the large economic groups or the bank, but in the eyes of the European citizens. It is that on the same day and at the same time that European leaders signed the 60 years of the Treaty of Rome outside the street, Europeans protested against the path Europe is following. In other words, while European leaders exalted the virtues and advantages of the European Union outside the street, Europeans accused the European Union of being dominated by the bank. This way, among the Portuguese, not a rocket was heard. I would say that the 60 years of the signing of the Treaty of Rome literally passed alongside the Portuguese. And indeed, it is not at all because today we have an absolutely worn-out Europe, nothing solidarity, which decides on the great economic interests and always on behalf of its stronger Member States and which is still in authority to continue to pressure, in an absolutely unacceptable way, the Member States and, above all, those States that seek alternative solutions to austerity policies, which, as we know, have not yet resolved. We have a Europe that continues to be built on the back of the citizens, in particular the Portuguese citizens who have never had the opportunity to speak on the path that Europe is following. And an increasingly market Europe and less and less of the citizens and peoples of Europe. That is why it is not surprising that the date has gone completely unnoticed among the Portuguese. But instead of rethinking this path, the central concern of the honourable Members of Europe continues to be that of strengthening the path followed so far. And today, what is being discussed in the European Union is the increase in competences at European level, i.e. less sovereignty for the Member States. We are discussing the existence of a European Union finance minister, perhaps to give more strength to sanctions and pressure. We are discussing whether or not the budget of the European Union should be redirected, especially at the level of the Structural Funds, to promote, of course, public-private partnerships. These are the priorities of you in Europe. And we believe that the reflection on the future of Europe should be the priority of priorities, because, as Europe continues on this path, it cannot last much longer, and what we believe is that this is a question of survival.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u164	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u165	I will finish, Mr. President. What I would like to ask you, Mr António Filipe, is whether, instead of continuing to act with pressure and with sanctions, it would no longer be appropriate for Europe to rethink its future in order to definitely turn to the citizens.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u166	In response to these two requests for clarification, Mr António Filipe of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Eurico Brillante Dias and José Luís Ferreira, I am grateful for the questions they have raised because they actually put before us the debate we need to have about the European Union and the situation that the countries that join it are going through. in the speeches, we easily understand each other. We defend a Europe of peace, of course, a Europe of cooperation, but we also defend a Europe that respects the will of the people, the will of the citizens, and that does not move forward to the shock and regardless of that will, we defend a Europe that respects the sovereignty of peoples, the right of peoples to self-determination and development, and we defend a Europe that promotes economic and social cohesion. But let us look at the European Union, let us look at the process of European integration which has been developed and we wonder: has the European Union done so? from our point of view, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias, it has not been that, it is not that. Therefore, in the face of the dominant European speech, which insists that the resolution of the deep crisis by which the European Union is going to resolve itself with more than that, with more than one flight forward, because the process of European integration has been successively marked by flight forwards, which end up exacerbating imbalances within the European Union — we say that the problems are not solved there. Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias tells me: 'Well, our European project is not what we are watching right now'; and the question we are asking is: has there been another one? Is there another project on the horizon, in this frame? in the context of deepening what has been the evolution of the European Union, is it possible to solve the problems by insisting more and more on the grave mistakes that have led to the situation we are living today? in this sense, we have a difference here with regard to the position that has been defended by the Socialist Party, because we do not see that the imposition of Portugal and, in particular, the most fragile countries in the euro area of a policy of endless austerity, dictated by an ideological policy serving the great economic and financial interests of the major countries of the European Union - which has led to severe constraints on national development and to which Portugal has known only stagnation and recession since entry into the euro - cannot fail to be questioned. The speech of « more Europe, more Europe, more Europe » does not, in our view, solve any of the problems, neither the national problems nor the problems of the European Union. Mr. José Luís Ferreira, in fact, this is the issue we consider inevitable to be on the agenda of the debate within the European Union. In Portugal, in the CFP, we are afraid that we will continue to commit ourselves to this debate and to have a real debate in Portuguese society on the options of our country within the framework of the European Union. We understand that this is inconsequential and that this problem is not solved with ideas made and speeches that invoke what the European Union has always said to be, but that, in reality, it has never been and is increasingly less. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u168	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u169	Mr President, Mr António Filipe, first of all I should like to thank you for the opportunity to re-examine the issue of the European Union. The honourable Member has come up with a point which seems absolutely essential to us, which has been or should have been, over time, at the heart of the debate and which has to do with the blackmails which, in fact, are the DNA of this European construction. at a time when a country, like Portugal, leaves the excessive deficit procedure, and then faces a new blackmail, now due to macroeconomic imbalances, what is seen is that, regardless of what is done or not done, the European Union and the European institutions will always find a blackmail mechanism to put the sword on the head of the countries they consider to be in the tail of Europe. This is how the European Union has treated and led this process of construction and supposed convergence of the European Union. Therefore, it is completely incongruent, it does not have any kind of credibility a project that boasts of solidarity and convergence, when, in fact, what it does is exactly the opposite of it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u170	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u171	On the question of whether, at the time of the sanctions to Portugal — which were eventually withdrawn — by excessive deficit procedure, we were all on the same boat to reject these same sanctions and these same blackmails, the truth is that — there is! — practice and reality always end up being what we have to pay attention to. in fact, we have never all been on the same boat against these sanctions, because over the last 40 years the European Commission's own policies have been perpetuated and supported by the parties that have ruled over the past 40 years. It is therefore important to debate the European project and its future and, already, to raise the issue of extremism and the fight against extremism. How is it that a European Union which allows what is happening in Hungarian territory, where the rule of law and freedom of the press has practically been suspended, a European Union which, in response to these supposed extremisms, only embraces this same xenophobia, placing refugees in real shameful detention camps in European territory itself, can actually be a response to these populisms? Is this not, on the contrary, an acclimatist of these same populisms? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u172	You have the floor to answer Mr Antonio Filipe of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u173	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Pires, has raised questions about very relevant problems and I would like to address two of the problems that have arisen. Its first question was whether, in view of those which are the dominant guidelines in the European Union, what has essentially marked this integration process, we can expect a resolution for national problems. When we see that, particularly with regard to debt, which we consider to be unspent, precisely the biggest banks of the most powerful European countries are the net beneficiaries of our indebtedness, can we expect that the European Union will be willing to resolve, in a realistic and reasonable way, the problems of indebtedness of the Portuguese economy? No, we can't be waiting for that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u174	It's obvious!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u175	But the honourable Member spoke of another problem which I would like to address, which is the issue of the label which the dominant European speech calls on all those who dare to question this path of European integration — the label of populists. It must be said, with all clarity, that there are xenophobic and racist parties within the framework of the European Union that challenge it, but with which we do not identify ourselves — we, the Portuguese Communist Party. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u176	We have nothing strictly to do with far-right European parties and it is rude to want to confuse a left party like the PCP, which is a deeply anti-xenophobic, anti-racist and solidarity party, with the discourse of parties like the National Front... [[PCP applause.]] ... or with the speech of parties like the Hungarian party that joins the European People's Party, of which you are part.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u177	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u178	Forget it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u179	Therefore, it is important that there are no such labels and these anathemas and that the issues are discussed with the seriousness they deserve. Otherwise, I wonder if there is a more populist speech than Mr Dijsselbloem's speech, which accuses the people of Europe of spending money on alcohol and women. I wonder if there is more populist speech than if! [[PCP applause.]] No, this is a completely European speech, no populism, no populism! Open... Therefore, it is good that the issues are discussed with the seriousness they deserve and that the problems that this process of European integration has caused to the peoples and the damage caused to cooperation, to the economic and social cohesion that was necessary within Europe. In fact, it is good to separate 'the wheat from the juicy' between those who defend a Europe of peace and a Europe of solidarity and those who in Europe only defend the financial interests, which, unfortunately, have been dominant in this process of European integration. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u180	To make a political statement, Mr Miguel Santos has the floor on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This government has been in office for one year and four months and, in this period, the left have sought to re-edit History, pretending that the past has not had a cause and that the policies of the previous Government have not had multiple conditions, with the clear purpose of diverting the attention of the Portuguese to the failure of this government. The cause of the past was called bankruptcy and the enormous conditioner of the previous government was called troika, the troika that the disaster of socialist governance became inevitable. But as the forgetfulness leads to the repetition of mistakes, it is important to bear in mind the situation experienced in the health sector in 2011, which was the unsustainable consequence in a recurrent way of the Socialist Party ruling. Six years ago, the National Health Service (NSS) was in a spiral of increasing debt. The debt amounted to EUR 3, EUR 7 billion, such a value that caused the cut-off of the supply of drugs to public hospitals, and the SNS deficit in 2010, the last full year of socialist governance, amounted to almost EUR 800 million. in this difficult period, the PSD/CDS government implemented a debt regularisation programme, paying late payments in excess of EUR 2, EUR 4 billion and recapitalizing hospital units in EUR 970 million. The positive discrimination that the SNS deserved was not limited to financial aspects. The Portuguese health indicators improved: the average life expectancy at birth rose from 79, 5 years in 2011, to 80, 4 years in 2015, and the infant mortality rate decreased from 3, 1 per thousand in 2011, to 2, 9 per thousand in 2015. Between 2011 and 2015, access to health care by the population was proven to be improved. As a result, 7 new hospitals, 129 new family health units and 81 new community care units came into operation and more than 2100 beds were contracted in continuous care and more than 200 beds in palliative care. The number of Portuguese without a family doctor was reduced by 800 000, a reduction of 44 %, and the number of Portuguese exempt from the payment of moderate rates increased by 4, 3 million to more than 6 million. in the years of the crisis, the government ensured cheaper and more affordable medicines for all, increased the share of generic medicines from 31 % to 47 % and guaranteed user access to innovative medicines. Between 2011 and 2015, there was investment in the greatest wealth of the SNS, its professionals, having been hired more than 6900 doctors and 4500 nurses. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since this government has begun its duties, there is a speech that does not reflect the reality of the country. When we look at the results, we see that the results of this governance resemble a Swiss cheese, increasingly with more holes. The implementation of the SNS budget is therefore a sad example of its increasing deterioration. The late payments of hospitals increased from January to February this year by more than EUR 59 million and, in the same comparison, the overdue debt of hospitals increased by EUR 133 million. To say, as the Prime Minister said, that this year the debt of hospitals is at an identical level and that there is therefore no increase in the level of indebtedness is a lie and it is clearly a desire to deceive people. As regards PPPs ( public-private partnerships ), the Government has increased its funding. in these first two months, compared with the same period, spending with PPPs increased 11, 7 million euros, an increase of almost 20 %. At the same time, the investment in SNS fell by 34 % between 2015 and 2016, and in the first two months of this year it withdrew by 56 %, in comparison with the same period, by EUR 3, 6 million. We all know that the result of this policy of dismantling and effective de-investment leads to the degradation of the SNS and the consequent reduction of access to health care. In addition, at the beginning of this month, Mrs Catarina Martins recognized that there is in the SNS, a « huge contraction in investment and a huge contraction in public services ». The government has increased its precariousness by more than 10 % in the last year. The work at the time of the so-called tasks has increased to more than EUR 110 million, constituting a new record since 2011. The lack of medicines in hospitals, the market share of generic medicines froze, as did the progression of medical careers and the working conditions of nurses. The inequality created among professionals due to the contractual link originated equal work situations with different wages and times. The recent crisis with health professionals and the repeated and renewed promises of the Minister of Health reveal a serious dissatisfaction of workers with the erratic government policy. The resignations of directors are multiplied in hospital units, the Hospital Center of Tres-os-Montes and Alto Douro ; the Hospital Center of Vila Nova de Gaia and Espinho and the Hospital Center of Algarve. These resignations are the expected and desperate reaction to the critical situation that many hospitals have reached, due to lack of investment, equipment and human resources. in the medical emergency there are repeated delays in the call service and in the activation of means. in December, the waiting time for call service increased by 350 %, as acknowledged by the President of INEM himself.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u182	Sir, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, to conclude, the Socialist Party, the Communist Party and the Left Block have promised a lot, but, after all this time of tripartite exercise of power, they do not meet and worsen the conditions of access to the SNS. The SNS owes itself to grow, has unstructured expenditure, has less investment, has more precariousness and has the levels of assistance to deteriorate. for our part, we will never give up in defending the interests of the country, the Portuguese and the professionals, presenting proposals that allow us to reverse this cycle. Once again, the sustainability of the SNS is at risk and the accessibility of citizens. Even to finish, Mr President, it is unbelievable and it is unacceptable that this government and these parties have learned nothing from recent history. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u184	Four Mrs are registered. Ladies and gentlemen, request clarification. I ask Mr Miguel Santos how he wishes to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u185	In sets of two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u186	All right. For the first requests for clarification on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Graça has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Miguel Santos, I understand that, like the PSD, you have not changed or learned anything from the past. He gave us an administrative vision, which is excessively administrative, he would even say almost as an accounting company— almost even forgive me perhaps the parliamentary excess, a view of alpaca sleeves, resorting to the old Excel leaf of former Minister Victor Gaspar and the former Minister of Finance Maria Luís Albuquerque, in which there are only expenses and recipes and there is never the factor of people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Miguel Santos may think that, looking at Excel, it is enough that the numbers are very correct. But how good the numbers are to be very correct if the National Health Service does not respond to the needs of Portuguese and Portuguese, if we have less doctors in the SNS, if we have fewer nurses in the SNS...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u188	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u189	... if we increase the moderate rates, from moderators to disincentives of people to health services, if we divert public services to the social sector, as you have tried?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u190	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u191	It is not enough to have the correct numbers, the numbers must be correct, the management must be rigorous, in partnership and in parallel with the effective improvement of Portuguese access to quality health care. And that's what we did in the last year and a half. in the last year and half of governance it was possible to restore wages in public service;...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u192	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u193	... restore the 35 hours weekly normality framework for all workers with public employment contracts and create more attractive conditions for the extraordinary hiring of retired doctors. The number of health professionals in the SNS increased, both in physicians and in nurses. Mr President, we have moved from more than 1, 5 million Portuguese without a family doctor to 500 000 Portuguese without a family doctor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u194	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u195	The progress we have made in just one and a half years of governance is unforgettable. Mr. Miguel Santos, in 2016 the deficit was less than EUR 199 million, the best deficit of the last 10 years. We did all this...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u196	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u197	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I was saying, we did all this without worsening our accounts in the National Health Service. It is worth noting that Mr Miguel Santos and the PSD have come here today to talk about the failure of the government precisely today that the Banco de Portugal sees growth in Portugal — at high — at 1, 8%. Mr Miguel Santos, next you have an opportunity to reaffirm the PSD's political declaration, adapting it to reality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u198	To request clarification on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Galliça Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u199	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Miguel Santos, I would like to congratulate you on bringing to plenary today the health issues, which are central issues for Portuguese people and which, therefore, the CDS has been closely accompanying for more than a year, revealing a reality that many fear not to see. Despite the announcements made by the Minister of Health that the budget implementation would have been excellent in this area, the reality, as you can see, — and the honourable Member made a very detailed portrait of it — is here to deny this irritant and unbalanced optimism for good and evil. The data disclosed in the summary of the budget implementation of the DGO ( Directorate-General for Budget) clearly show that after the artificial debt reduction trend at the end of 2016, by means of an extraordinary injection of more than EUR 250 million in the SNS, the invoices to be paid are again increasing, reaching an amount of more than EUR 59 million in February. So this is more than what we've seen. As the CDS has said several times, this growing debt captures the SNS, threatens its sustainability and social cohesion and compromises the provision of care and the quality of them. The CDS, without any kind of tremendism or demagogy, but following the reality in a responsible way, clearly condemns the policy of increasing indebtedness of the SNS by this government. We can by no means cease to quell the dubious behaviour on the part of the parties that support the government, who once clearly cried out for the destruction and dismantling of the SNS...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u200	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u201	... and that, today, in view of this reality so well described here, they have a complicit silence on the serious situation of the SNS,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u202	... this situation today, of the responsibility of this government, as in fact the sector organisations have recognized, marking strikes, because they are the first to recognize this problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u203	Thank you for finishing up, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u204	I will finish, Mr. President. We well know that in the morning they assume the identity of protest parties, recognize problems and present draft resolutions and then, in the afternoon, face the same problems, spread the grave reality and assume themselves as friends of the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u205	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u206	Finally, Mr Miguel Santos, I wanted to ask you how you see this dubious identity. Do you think this is the Portuguese health solution? Is this the solution to solving SNS problems?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u207	To respond to these first requests for clarification, Mr Miguel Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u208	Mr President, Mr Luís Graça, Mrs Isabel Galliça Neto, I welcome the fact that you have come to this debate. Mr. Luís Graça, frankly, I don't know what I'm going to tell you! [[PS protests.]] The years go by and the way the Socialist Party has to govern our country is recurring. It is the re-editing of a film of bad memory, and we already know, more or less, how this usually ends. I hope that's not the case, but the indicators are all there. If you will allow me, your mouth has fled to the truth a little while ago when you said that the PSD wanted to divert public resources into the social sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u209	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u210	I said! I said, I heard it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u211	Mr. Luís Graça, this says everything about how you see our country and see our social fabric. The health sector consists of the National Health Service, the social sector and the private sector and must act in partnership...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u212	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u213	... and, when the State is not directly promoting care, it should have a regulatory and supervisory role in the use of public sectors. The honourable Member should know this, even because he is a Member of the Algarve, how the Algarve resource parks are being spent on diverting and increasing the number of surgeries in the private sector, for example.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u214	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u215	So the honourable Member came here to say that we wanted to shift to the social sector, but there is no deviation, Mr! There is a use of the resources and synergies of the three sectors and that is, in fact, what we stand for. The honourable Member is a party that he thinks is the party of King Sol, which proclaimed: ‘The State is me’. Therefore, the Socialist Party believes that the State is its own and, being its State, it always has the same way of governing, which is to appropriate itself from the state, using it for the purely electoral purposes that they intend, always trying to satisfy corporations in order to win a landslide, eventually, one day they can win the elections – that is what concerns you. Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto, we clearly share the view of the CDS on the health sector, being a difficult view to hide and to spread, because it is not just the vision of the PSD and CDS, but it is, in fact, what has happened and all Mrs. Members of this House know that it is objectively happening. Still this morning we attended a hearing at the Health Committee with social sector partners, representing 28 agents... [[Protests from PCP MP Carla Cruz.]] ... which presented a study, a formal document which was delivered to all Mr. Members and who had the title The bankruptcy of the continuing care units. So the question is how this government is going to catch up and try to reverse a cycle, which we all know, of the previous government, which was the government of José Socrates. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u216	To request clarification on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u217	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Miguel Santos, as we understand the PSD! We understand well what the PSD is trying to do and what it tries to do every time it goes up to the rostrum: in fact, after applying a policy of burnt land on the National Health Service, it wants to de-responsibility and whitewash its responsibility. Therefore, the party that used to be said strong and determined and that even wanted to go beyond the troika — the cuts that the troika imposed were not even enough, the PSD would go far beyond the troika — now says: "We only did what we did because it had to be." So we know what you want to do. But what they did was for a PSD option, as it was for a CDS-PP option.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u218	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u219	It is that they do not really like the National Health Service, because they want to give these pieces of what they consider to be the market to the private ones and that is why they did everything they did...! Now, in an attempt to take responsibility for your responsibilities, they have no role in making victims on the way and the first ones, as we have heard from the rostrum, are the numbers and the facts, which have been completely tortured. These are the first victims of the PSD in an attempt to deresponsibility. Mr. Miguel Santos, the investment that the PSD has made in the National Health Service in recent years? Oh, my God! You want to talk about the increase in equipment obsolescence? Mr. Deputy, you talked about professionals. As for the increase of professionals and appreciation, do you still remember the cuts that PSD made to civil servants in public service, doctors? Oh, my God! Do you still remember emigration? Oh, my God! Do you still remember the 4400 professionals who were lost in four years? Oh, my God! Mr. Deputy, did you speak in users without a family doctor? Oh, my God! Remember how the PSD could artificially reduce the number of users without a family doctor? You've been hiring more doctors? Don't! There was an increase in the number of users per physician. Do you still remember this? Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u220	I ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u221	Therefore, it is appropriate not to torture numbers and it is appropriate not to deceive the Portuguese with these political declarations that they have come here. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u222	For a new request for clarification, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u223	Mr President, what Mr Miguel Santos has tried to do from the rostrum has been a recurring scene in fact in the PSD and CDS-PP, which is to whitewash the full responsibility they have, and which still have, of the consequences in the National Health Service of your policy. The honourable Member said: "We have improved the accessibility of users in the National Health Service! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Mr President, I remind you of the exponential increase in moderate rates. Have you forgotten that the PSD/CDS-PP government has altered the non-emergency transport of patients, preventing patients from going to treatment and consultation? Oh, my God! Is this accessibility? Oh, my God! Mr President, do not lighten your responsibilities. The honourable Member said that they had increased access to medicines. Mr President, do you think the Portuguese have forgotten the patients who died waiting for hepatitis C medicine? Oh, my God! You haven't forgotten, sir! [[PCP and PS applause.]] Do you think, Mr. Miguel Santos, that the Portuguese have forgotten that, particularly in the Algarve hospital, there were professionals who, without diapers, used plastic bags to replace diapers? No, sir, you haven't forgotten!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u224	It was a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u225	Mr Deputy, are you talking about PSD concerns with professionals? Oh, my God! Mr President, this is actually trying to put sand in the eyes of the Portuguese people, because what the PSD and the CDS did, while they ruled, was to rule against the professionals of the SNS and the public sector. Does the honourable Member forget that we have here denounced the shifts that were not complete because there are no professionals to fill them, especially in the care of patients with red and orange priority levels? But, Mr President, contrary to what the PSD said in its speech, the CFP has acted because, while the PSD has increased moderate rates, by our action moderate rates have decreased.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u226	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u227	While the PSD has made it difficult to allocate non-emergency transport, the situation has changed by our action and it is easier today to have non-emergency transport.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u228	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u229	I'm done now, Mr. President. Today, workers have a wage replacement, there are more workers in the National Health Service and it is also required that the government have tools to combat precariousness. This is indeed due to the action of the CFP. Here is the substantial difference between the policy of the CFP for the National Health Service and that of your policy and practice. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u230	To reply, Mr Miguel Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u231	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Moisés Ferreira and Mr Carla Cruz, I welcome your visit to the debate. Mr. Moisés Ferreira spoke of burnt land policy. I gave several examples in my intervention, factual examples, that exist physically, that can be proved. The honourable Member said that there were no investments, it is a matter of going to hospitals. I hope you don't go for health reasons, but how do you do political visits to hospitals—and very well! — visit them, including those which were opened, opened and made available by the former Government. So when the investment is completely frozen in the SNS, last year and these two months, you point out to me that this is not right. And look, Mr. Member, things must not have been done so bad, even in your view, because in some way the current government, with your support, has been looking for the former Minister of Health for one of the most important missions the country has to face, which is to manage the General Deposit Box.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u232	But look that's not a very good sign either! That doesn't really cheer us up!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u233	You have your support, because otherwise it would not have happened. So, Mr. Deputy, take on any subject... it's a lucky choice. For example, deficit 2016: EUR 200 million, plus the bonus check that came from the finances of EUR 240 million, because otherwise we were again in the socratic deficits. [[Oh, yeah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u234	You know this!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u235	Yes, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u236	I know you know this! We will choose another theme: late payments, extraordinary hours, tasks, plus 10 %. Mr. Deputies, all this will fall on you. Therefore, if I may suggest, Mr President, that you dig a hole, a deep hole and with a wide diameter, to see if you can find at the bottom of that hole the political consciousness of the Left Block, which makes you now say something that is totally different from what you have been saying since your creation until today and at this time. Mrs Carla Cruz, frankly, I had some difficulty in following up the torrent that was her intervention,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u237	It's the facts!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u238	... but I'm going to check, using my memory, that the torrent of your intervention is the same as Mrs. Deputy practiced a year ago, two years ago, three years ago, four years ago, five years ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u239	You see, nothing's changed! We're consistent!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u240	There is only one problem here, Mrs Deputies, that you have mischosen the addressees. The honourable Member and her party, if they passed a blank check to the Socialist Party, if they were in agreement with this government solution, should have been more careful when they held the anti-nup convention, they should have been more demanding, because your marriage does not bring only the bandages and distribution they like to do, it also brings responsibilities. Therefore, the honourable Member points out her torrent there to her left side, because, at some point, the honourable Member and her party will have to respond to this cycle of effective dismantling that is happening in the National Health Service, and I want to see how many faces the honourable Member has. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from PCP MP Carla Cruz.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u241	We have made no arguments!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u242	For an intervention under Article 76 ( 2 ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr António Sales has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u243	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Leiria region is, since the beginnings of our nationality, a region marked by innovation and trait. Since the times of D. Dinis, as celeblers of the famous pinhal of Leiria, the region has since assumed itself as a privileged partner in the first great wave of globalization: the discoveries. Currently, at a time when the country tries to be a new actor in this new wave of globalization, with the aim of competing equally with other economies, in a global space, when opportunities arise to the same extent as ambition, the ability to innovate and undertake, the Leiria district once again presents itself as an important partner in the pursuit of this national goal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Long goes the time when we were shading with the great world powers by controlling a global market, reinforced by our maritime fleet and by the entrepreneurs who have never been afraid of our size or the dangers of what was an adventure towards the unknown. Today this spirit is once again evident in the Portuguese business fabric, but also in the poles of academic and cultural knowledge. The capitalisation of this spirit and entrepreneurial capacity, as well as the innovation capacity recognised in our citizens, is one of the great marks of this government's action. Therefore, we can say that the Leiria district is beginning to reap the fruits of this government action and the legislative initiatives of this parliamentary majority. As a region with strong industrial dynamism and which has, from the outset, been able to anticipate what is today a national emergency, the commitment to internationalization and innovation, as marks of a growing economic activity, the region is ready to continue to contribute to the pursuit of ever clearer national objectives and that are approaching the ambitions of the district itself. After a period marked by the impoverishment of companies and citizens, in which social tension was noticeable, as well as the gap between representatives and representatives, the merit of a government initiative that has already managed to reverse a negative trend, relaunching the country in a new political cycle. contrary to what happened in the past, in which we lacked the means necessary for us to compete with more prepared and modernized economies, we have now managed to overcome some structural limitations, placing our greatest wealth at the service of the country: the mind, the wit and imagination of our fellow citizens. Therefore, we consider it important to take advantage of the most well-prepared generation ever, as a launch ramp for a new phase of development in our country. This is the merit of a political initiative that invests confidence in the capabilities of citizens and creates a means in which they can develop their skills, generating a wave of optimism and trust that would count on the regions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Leiria district is no exception and the work that has been developed at the national level identifies itself with the region's own objectives. This is the model that had remained behind and that now recovers, on behalf of a better country for all, as well as from more competitive regions. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is up to us, as representatives elected by the district, to ensure the convergence of the regional project with the national project. We must continue to defend what has been done, but we must not forget the reality of our region; it is therefore important to defend a strategy that allows us to break some of the asymmetries that occur in the district. To the north, the question of the ageing population and desertification, which contrast with the most popular and dynamic coastal centre at business level, which, in turn, contrasts with the west-west coast, the south in our district, where the sea and agricultural fields can fix many of our young people, whether by the tourist vector, either by the intense agricultural activity that is recorded there. We cannot ignore the potentialities of our district, which, due to its centrality and proximity to the major urban centres, is of course to have a prominent place in the national project. With forestry to the north and marine resources to the south, it is a region that still has an intense agricultural activity, which emerges as a complement to a strong economic dynamism. It is this reality that makes us fight for a national strategy, which allows an integrated solution to areas that we consider as priority in its definition, more specifically in the area of transport and education. A fixation of this agenda includes three strategic regional designs, which, not being merely barrist or parochialist proposals, seek to be a balanced solution between proximity and rationality. I refer to the conversion of the West Line, infrastructure systematically forgotten by previous governments, and that finally in February 2016 was announced its electrification as well as modernization between Queen Meleças and Caldas, on an investment of EUR 107 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u244	Zero! Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u245	I am also referring to the opening of the Monte Real Air Base to civil aviation, and a study is being prepared on the level of the socio-economic impact that the Government will examine with the discernment and responsibility it has. Finally, the reference to the establishment of a university in the region, whose design should not be undermined by a legislative limitation which discriminates the polytechnics on the basis of their designation, diminishing their scientific and pedagogical competences. For those who say that it is preferable for a good politician to a bad university, we answer that Leiria's polytechnic knows how to be an excellent politician and will certainly know how to be an excellent university, because it is an excellent higher education institution. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have also been allies of the government in technological modernization. Programs such as Leiria Digital Region 4.0, in addition to providing the district with a program capable of encompassing various areas of technological development, contribute to the definition of more prepared and capable of presenting themselves as effective methods of linking citizens to public machinery. But perhaps the highlight must be given to the strategy of the region which aims to operate in the areas of employment, especially in the setting of younger people in the region. We are talking about a plan that establishes a very important triangle as a distinguishing factor in what is a strategy for employment, speaking of the triangle that binds Nerlei (Leiria Region Business Association) to business associations, politics and local authorities. This is the key to meeting the specific needs of enterprises and public institutions in the region in terms of labour, while at the same time we present to young people in the region a more integrated way to be able to follow the careers for which they are most prepared and for which they have technical skills. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Despite the diverse business ecosystem, we must also highlight the initiatives of social entrepreneurship, an area that has come to have great growth in the region and which, together with civil initiatives in the field of culture, has needed partners who can nurture this exciting activity. Together with the Government, the region has now been able to ensure another framework for these activities, contributing to a healthier and better social environment to respond to the citizens' own activities. To define, clearly, strategies that meet the needs of the country and of each region, we consider it vital that we be given to the partners who are doing the X-ray of our country, having the need to be determined in the adoption of a strategy, without having to change it in half, because at the moment the definition will be our « Achilles heel ». That is why we advocate the definition of national strategies for the different areas of citizens' lives, ending with redundancy, without which this means a lack of supply to the north, south, on the inside or on the coast. We defend a greater balance in public investment, so that its impact will be seen and contributes to the public's feeling that the state has turned to itself again and not to the outside. To reach this reality there are only two ways, ladies and gentlemen. Members: one of them, which we are already following and much because of the initiative of this government and the parliamentary majority, is the way for the return of trust to the citizens, cutting with a austerity that drains everything on their passage; the other, and perhaps most important, depends on all of us, political representatives of our peoples, interpreters of national cohesion, agents of supra-party consensus, representatives of the regional design whose citizens count on us. This is our responsibility, this is our ambition, this is our commitment: we want more committed citizens, more competitive regions, more balanced Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u246	I welcome the fact that Mr.António Sales has scrupulously fulfilled the time given to his speech, which must be worth a reference. Mr António Sales, the Bureau registered two Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u247	Mr President, for this situation there is no provision for the request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u248	You are absolutely right, Mr. José Luís Ferreira. The Bureau has made a mistake, so thank you for the immediate correction. in fact, the Bureau was making a mistake, because for this type of political declarations there is no provision for the use of a word for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u249	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u250	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u251	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u252	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u253	Mr President, the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party signed Mr José António Silva for clarification to Mr António Sales, and did so when the session was still being chaired by Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic. This is a matter that has never been settled. This dossier of the declarations, which is a proper right which assists each Member, has been repeatedly used by the Socialist Party to make regional declarations, which are perfectly legitimate and acceptable. Moreover, the PSD Parliamentary Group will take this matter to the next Leaders Conference. If we continue in this register, which, I repeat, is legitimate for each and every one of us. Members, the PSD Parliamentary Group will also make available to its Members the possibility of making use of this standard for this type of intervention. As far as it really is concerned, which is the request for clarification, I repeat, the registration for this purpose had been made with President Ferro Rodrigues, and was still accepted, as I said, in the course of the previous political declarations. The Rules of Procedure do not say that it is not admissible. The Rules of Procedure do not state that the request for clarification is not admissible. Therefore, Mr President, I reiterate our registration so that the request for clarification may be made to the honourable Member who has just made the statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u254	Mr President, the Bureau has, of course, received registration for requests for clarification, but indeed, the intervention made under this rule, which is used by the honourable Members. Members — and on this there is no question — as much as I know does not include the possibility of requests for clarification. The Bureau will have — and I will assume that responsibility while I am coordinating the work — eventually involved in a period of interpretation. And so on that, the responsibility lies with the one who currently presides over the Bureau, i.e. it is mine. Frankly, I believe that the regimental figure of the request for clarification is not appropriate to this circumstance, so it is only for some time that the registration was accepted. Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares, I ask you to understand that this was the circumstance.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u255	Mr. President, will you excuse me?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u256	Mr President, I ask you to be brief so that we can get through this incident quickly. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u257	Mr President, not wanting to make this a case and accepting the Bureau's decision, I wanted to tell you two things. Firstly, it is clear that the Bureau is sovereign. It is up to her to accept or not this inscription to request clarification, but the truth is that there have been precedents in relation to this type of circumstance. in previous legislation, in political declarations of the same type as Mr. Ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u258	No, it's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u259	...there were requests for clarification, which is why we made this registration and we want to keep it. We therefore ask the Bureau to reassess the matter by virtue of the precedents which, in this House, still have its custom and tradition. But, Mr President, we will of course respect your decision. Secondly — and I shall finish — I mean that there is nothing in the Rules of Procedure that prevents the request for clarification. By analogy with political declarations—because what has been done was a political declaration—it is perfectly normal and has legal jurisdiction to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u260	to the various Mrs. Members who have asked for the floor to be as brief as possible, however, of your right of intervention, so that we can quickly overcome this procedural circumstance. I shall once again say, on behalf of the Bureau, that it is up to those who coordinate the work, in this case myself, to be responsible for any delay that has occurred, which clearly seems to be the case. You have the floor, Mr. João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u261	Mr President, on this issue, I would like to clarify that it is true that, in other circumstances where statements have been made under this rule, there have been requests for clarification. As the question was raised at that time, the question was brought to the Conference of Leaders and, unanimously,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u262	I don't remember that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u263	... it was understood that this type of intervention did not give rise to requests for clarification. This was the unanimous understanding reached at the Conference of Leaders. If the PSD has any doubts about this, I propose that the matter be brought back to the next Leader Conference to be discussed. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u264	Mr. Carlos César has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u265	Mr President, I do not want to take the time of the House until, on this issue, Mr João Oliveira has already had the opportunity to give the necessary clarification. First of all, I remember that this is not a figure which the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group makes available to the Members. Members, it is a figure which the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic make available to Members in general. Secondly, I also want to say that the intervening Member would certainly have given some time to respond to any request for clarification if he did not have a tradition and a custom which is associated with the use of this regiment figure and which does not include the existence of requests for clarification. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u266	You have time for the political declaration!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u267	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u268	Please, Mr Telmo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u269	Mr President, looking in good spirit to help and cooperate with you, Ex.a., I remember that the Rules of Procedure had an earlier figure very close to what the Socialist Party has done now, which was that of declarations of regional interest. In fact, we have found that several Members of the Socialist Party have made declarations of regional interest, which seems to be, within their legitimate parliamentary creativity, the use of a figure which for many years has not been used for this purpose by the Socialist Party. Mr President, I do not think it is worth prolonging this debate and, like other matters, such as voting until we reach the best conclusions, I believe that we should take this matter to the Leaders Conference, which will surely decide and have a good solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u270	Thank you very much, Mr Telmo Correia. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, I will also give you the floor to speak on this issue, but I would ask that we close this matter as soon as possible. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u271	Mr President, in all simplicity, I would like to add to the historical argument that Mr Oliveira has brought, in relation to the understanding reached at the Conference of Leaders, the legislative argument. Political declarations shall be made under Article 71. the Rules of Procedure. The intervention of Members — and this is what is called — is carried out under Article 76. o. That is why we are not talking about the same thing, although, in our way of describing what has been done now, we have called a political declaration to an intervention. It is not a political declaration, it is an intervention. And it is precisely for this reason that historically in the House there has not been the possibility of requests for clarification by parliamentary groups, in addition to the fact that the time of the Member's intervention is not accounted for in the time of his parliamentary group. This interpretation was unanimously recognised at the Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u272	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to say very briefly that the Bureau takes into account everything that has been brought about by the various speakers and thanks for the attempt to help this situation to be resolved as consensually as possible. in this sense, we are inclined to think that there will have been a delay on the part of the Bureau, which I again assume, and that there is doubts about the validity of the regiment figure of the request for clarification in this context. from the point of view of the Bureau, these doubts have their own place to be clarified, which is the Conference of Leaders. I apologize to the ladies. Deputies José António Silva, of the PSD, and José Miguel Medeiros, of the PS, who signed up to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u273	That's extraordinary! I'm glad you said that! That's more extraordinary!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u274	I suggest that we accept, in the most consensual manner possible, the suggestion that Mr Telmo Correia has put forward, i.e. that this issue be addressed at the next Leaders Conference. It seems to us that this should be done without more. I know that this interpretation may not be absolutely consensual, but it still seemed to me that it was the one that gathered a greater consensus between the various parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u275	Mr. President, will you excuse me?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u276	I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not proceed with this question, but please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u277	Mr. President, I am very sorry, but you just spoke in consensus and I was in a fight. As a Member of the Socialist Party was registered to request clarification, I would like to know what the PS Parliamentary Group's position on the matter is. This is because, apparently, if a member of the Socialist Party signed up to ask for clarifications, it was because the PS understood that registration was regiment. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] Therefore, if the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group then entered the PSD Group, which has a majority in Parliament, then re-subscribes its Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u278	Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares, I fully understand the meaning of his speech, but I would like again to call for this to be put in a very serene manner at the next Conference of Leaders, so that it can be resolved, following the various suggestions that have been put forward in this regard by the various parliamentary groups. The word 'consensual' may be overstated, but it is not so overstated. So I think we can move forward. I thank you once again for your understanding and again for your tolerance so that this solution can be solved in this way. Mrs. Members, let us move on to the second item on the agenda, which consists of the assessment of petitions Nos 13 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — They request the amendment of the General Law on Public Works ( Article 2 ). o ), in order to be excluded from its scope staff with police functions of the Judicial Police [ Trade Union Association of Criminal Investigation Officers of the Judicial Police ( ASFIC-PJ ) ) and 99 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — They request the exclusion of the elements of the research and monitoring career of the Foreign and Border Service from the scope of the General Law on Public Works ( LGTFP) ( Trade Union of the Research and Monitoring Career of the Foreign and Border Service ) together with the projects of lein.o 347 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Excluding the Judiciary Police and the Foreign and Border Service from the scope of the General Law on Public Works ( fourth amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June 2014 ) ( PCP ) and 467 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the General Law on Public Works, excluding the Judiciary Police and the Foreign and Border Service from their scope ( fifth amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June ) ( CDS-PP ). Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u279	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, our draft law is explained simply, but I would first like to congratulate you on the fact that the regiment agenda of the petitions we are discussing today has allowed to schedule, for debate in general, the bill presented by the CFP. So I explain this bill very easily. In 2014, when the general working regime was defined in public functions, the careers of two security forces were excluded from the application of this general scheme, namely the GNR, with the invocation of the military status of its elements, and the PSP. With this exclusion from the PSP, that we do not agree, by our fully justified opinion, why the Foreign and Border Service ( SEF ) and the Judicial Police ( PJ ) — in the case of the Judicial Police, a security force and, in the case of the SEF, a security service— both with police functions were not excluded, as happened with the PSP. The Government of the time has never been able to give a convincing explanation for this fact and, therefore, it has never understood the logic of this non-exclusion of the Judicial Police and the SEF, since the petitions we have discussed today have been submitted — whose petitioners, and some of them are present in the galleries, used to welcome, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group — in particular by the Judicial Police and the Foreign and Border Service, to claim, precisely and logically, their exclusion from the application of the general work regime in public functions. The draft law presented by the CFP is precisely aimed at extending the exclusion included in the general work regime in public functions to staff with police functions of the Judicial Police and to staff in the oversight and investigation career of the Foreign and Border Service. This is what we propose and I am glad that the scheduling of petitions has led to the scheduling of this bill and that, as we see it, there is an expanded understanding in this House to make this exclusion effective. This is the vote we make. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u280	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u281	Mr President, I would like to say that, indeed, this is a relatively simple matter of easy understanding. When the general regime of work in public functions was approved, as has been said, by Law No. 35 / 2014, only the military of the Armed Forces, the GNR military and the PSP, and the PSP had this claim very present and always very active. I would like to say that, from the point of view of the CDS, we always follow this idea and that assumption. There are, moreover, numerous statements made here, at the seat of plenary, either of our current parliamentary leader, Mr Nuno Magalhães, or myself, in order to defend this exclusion with the assumption and with a fundamental idea: the men of the security forces, the men who perform police duties are not mere public officials, so to speak. In other words, they are not, or cannot be, or should not be comparable from the point of view of the status of public service. It is true that there was a failure here, which was not the exclusion of the SEF and the Judicial Police, which can of course be the subject of various interpretations of various opinions. however, making reading in the light of these petitions, which are now presented to us—and I take advantage to greet their authors and all those who work in supervision and investigation, whether by the Judicial Police, whether in the Service of Foreigners and Borders—we ask whether we are in the face of a failure and whether or not this failure should be corrected. in the opinion of the CDS, we are faced with a failure, which must be corrected, and therefore the CDS presented a bill, aiming to solve this matter. In other words, circumstances may not be exactly the same, but there is one thing that seems clear to us: the conditions of dedication, the demand for performance and even the risk conditions of those who perform these functions, whether in the PJ or in the SEF, make the exception also to be applied to them. And, therefore, they should not be regarded only as mere public servants. This is the object and intention of our bill and, of course, we hope that there will be consensus in this House to resolve this matter, which is, from our point of view, full and comprehensive justice. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u282	Mr António Gameiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u283	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As rapporteur for petitions, I would like to welcome the petitioners here. In fact, more than 8000 men and women of these two security forces and other citizens signed and signed these two petitions, which in some way claim with justice what should have taken place when the law was passed in 2014. I also welcome the CDS-PP, because although at the time, in 2014, I made several contradictory statements — some of them. Members said that yes, but then, in the field of expertise, the vote of the PP ended up against the amendment and inclusion of the proposals relating to this matter - in fact, the draft law that the CDS presented comes in the direction of what the PS Parliamentary Group has been defending for a long time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u284	So you're going to vote for it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u285	The bills that are under discussion, as well as the two petitions, deserve us, in general, our agreement. Therefore, I stress that the careers of criminal investigation and supervision, security and expert functions in the PJ should be excluded from the scope of the General Law on Public Works. This is a fair claim and it is not, from a constitutional point of view, understood to have gone to the Constitutional Court and to the supervision of constitutionality. In fact, there is here a deviation from the principle of equality in the circumstances, in the practice and substance of the police practice of the act of combating crime and monitoring the action by the criminal police, in this case the Foreign and Border Services and the Judicial Police itself, which has in this matter, in the materiality of the investigation, the central account of our concrete action to combat crime. Therefore, we accompany the parliamentary groups in their bills and, in the field of expertise, we will see how the PS can contribute even more to improving what has come to the plenary today. I would also like to say that today we feel the mission of bringing the debate to this House, through the action of the petitioners, after 2014, a fair, legitimate claim and which, I think, corrects an injustice that has been committed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u286	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u287	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In a simple and synthetic way, I would like to congratulate the petitioners who brought this debate to the Assembly of the Republic and who, as has already been shown, have succeeded in gaining the appreciation of most of the benches for the claim, which is fair. It will not be strange to remember that the Left Block has been against the General Law on Public Works, debate that still took place under the height of the troika and the compressor roll of the PSD and CDS, but it is important to highlight this position, saying that we follow the proposals that are above the table and that we hope that, in the short term, this injustice can be filled up and amended the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u288	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Silvano.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u289	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners here present, the Trade Union of Criminal Investigation Officers Association of the Judicial Police and the Trade Union of the Research and Monitoring Career of the Foreign and Border Service. These petitions, to which the draft laws of the CDS-PP and the PCP are added, aim, as has been said, to amend the General Law on Public Works, in particular Article 2 thereof. , in order to exclude from this legal regime these professionals, these officials. The reasons already mentioned here have been explained in some depth and refer essentially to the characteristics of these technicians and officials, whether from the Judicial Police or the Foreign and Border Service, who perform, like the military, the GNR and the PSP, to which they are compared, the fact that they have been excluded from the law. It is to ask, and people have to be serious in reasoning, which is what has changed, to change their position in relation to 2014. And it must also be said, with all the tranquility and all the rigor and truth, that it was not the police functions which in 2014 made the PSD apply the exception to these employees but, indeed, the specificity of a PSP's own status, which had restrictions, and restrictions accentuated, particularly in the freedom of the union and in the creation of trade unions. There were, therefore, different restrictions from these employees, SEF and PJ. As for the GNR and the Armed Forces, it was their military condition that made the difference and not the fact that they were a police force. This must be said, with all clarity to realize, that the doubts remain in some characteristics, but we are available to, in the field of expertise, deepen this matter and thus find that some situations have changed. But the main situation that has changed, and that you have not mentioned, but it is important, is the budgetary issue. In 2014, as we all perceive, budgetary restrictions existed and this was the main reason for not all being included and the exception does not apply to all. Therefore, what changed was essentially this, but the discussion continues to be around a specific career, which is not comparable to that of the PSP or GNR, of the professionals present here. We want to say this, with all clarity, that we are available to value these proposals and this qualification in the field of specialty, although with well-founded doubts, to settle this issue in a consensual way. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u290	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for a new speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u291	Mr. President and Mr. Members, just to clarify briefly some aspects. The Socialist Party Member began to welcome me, but I don't know why, Mr President. It will certainly not be to this House that welcomes me and, much less, it will be to this matter, because, honourable Member, what this law did was correct a law of the 2008 Socialist Party which did not contain this exception.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u292	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u293	It was the Socialist Party that made the mistake in 2008, it wasn't us, nor the PSD! The CDS has said, since the first hour, and continues to say clearly, that the police are not civil servants. What I am saying to you is that, in 2014, having voted in favour of the law, some of our Members, particularly those who have responsibility in this area, like Mr Nuno Magalhães and myself, have signed a declaration of vote to say that they voted in the law, even though they consider that it could and should be extended to all security forces. [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u294	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u295	I will finish Mr. President. So our position is very clear. And the question, for us, is: is there a failure or not? There's a failure! What justifies the exception? Risk, availability and dedication. Is it fair or not to approve? And just approve, Mr. Deputies. I hope that this time it will be approved and that it will be voted on. I say: I vote our project and vote in favour of the PCP bill. [[At the moment, public applause was recorded in the galleries.]] I therefore hope that these diplomas will go to vote and that you will take the decision here and do not wait again for me to know why! We want, because it is time and opportunity, to solve the issue. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u296	Mr António Filipe has the floor for a final speech at this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u297	Mr President, in this very consensual environment we really need to understand what has changed. What changed everything was the election results of October 2015. [[It's a fact!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u298	That's what changed! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u299	That's true! Especially for the PCP, which supports the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u300	In fact, the pre-penultimate government of the PS does not exempt anyone, the previous government has excluded only the PSP and did not exempt the SEF and the Judicial Police and during these three years we went here to finish the crossing, because in fact the government did not accept to amend the error. Mr Telmo Correia has told us now that the CDS has always defended this position, although it draws attention to the fact that we are not. The gentlemen. Members were in the government and we had never noticed that this was the position of the CDS, we are now aware of it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u301	But it's been declared!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u302	I am glad, Mr President, that the outcome of the 2015 elections was what it was. I want to give you one last word, Mr. President. There is, in our position, no contempt for the workers in the general careers of the Public Administration, which is the recognition of a differentiation of functions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u303	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u304	The professionals with police functions are also civil servants, like the others. There are no first and second civil servants, there is a differentiation of functions that the law must recognize.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u305	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u306	It is imperative, in fact, that special career professionals have their statutes duly recognized and regulated and that they do not happen what happened in the previous government, which have been promising statutes that they have never approved. It is therefore good that a new chapter should now be opened and that this issue should be answered as it should be. I am glad that this perspective has been opened and we hope that this opportunity will not be lost. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u307	Mrs. Members, we conclude the assessment of petitions Nos 13 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) and 99 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) and of the projects of lein.o 347 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PCP ) and 467 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( CDS-PP ). We move on to the last item on the agenda, which is part of the overall assessment of petition No 165 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — They request that the Portuguese Air Force return to combat directly the scourge of fires in the Portuguese forests ( Jorge Manuel dos Santos Pereira and others) and draft resolution No 769 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government deepen collaboration between the Portuguese Air Force ( FAP ) and the National Civil Protection Authority ( ANPC ) in relief, rescue and, in particular, in combating forest fires ( CDS-PP ). Mr João Rebelo has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u308	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome the more than 30 000 subscribers of the petition that brought the theme of the Portuguese Air Force back to fight directly the scourge of fires in the Portuguese forest. In fact, the fact that the subscribers are more than 30 000 well demonstrates the interest that this issue has had in many Portuguese. in our understanding, the object of this petition is not only useful as it becomes necessary, and that is why we have drawn up a draft resolution on this issue, so that this content can be voted on and gained, in these terms, legal strength. A country that wants to have armed forces with full awareness of its role in the 21st century cannot ignore the importance of the concept of dual use of the Armed Forces and reflect the importance of public-interest missions for society. Indeed, it was with this view that the last Government, the PSD Government / CDS, created a Working Group for the Airways used in Public Interest Missions aimed at... presenting a study with options for the future active involvement of the Air Force with air resources in the prevention and fight against fires and aeromedical evacuation in the territory..., I am quoting, «... continental and island, as well as the articulation of the same means in other public interest missions and their respective model of coordination and management. The conclusions of this Working Group, which appear in the report of 15 September 2015, proposed (...) the change of current service operators to the Air Force, at the level of civil protection, emergency and internal security missions, with minimal changes in the procedures currently carried out (... ) and also ( (...) the existence of a permanent component consisting of state-owned air resources operated by the Air Force, and a seasonal component consisting of permanent means and means to be contracted to meet the needs of the State ( e.g. in the critical phase of forest fires) (... ). It is in this respect, Mr President, that we present this draft resolution, as it is known, and we reserve some time to clarify any doubts about it. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u309	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. Carlos Matias.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u310	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We welcome the petitioners who have addressed us expressing their desire that the Armed Forces, in particular the Air Force, be once again involved in monitoring, preventing, combating and reheating forest fires. With this petition, subscribers reveal concern for the forest and its defense, against the destruction caused by fires that regularly destroy large areas of national forest. A concern justified by the scale of the catastrophe and revealing a civic commitment it deserves to highlight. In fact, it is incomprehensible that the Air Force has not long been prepared and requested to make its contribution to the fight against fires — safeguarding, of course, the essential of its mission and the need for very specific technical preparation for some tasks. If there is no smoke without fire, neither can we look at the aircraft rental business, without expressing our perplexity for so much passivity in front of the rivers of public money that have been running to the safes of these companies, years and years at a time. In a recently approved decree, the current Government decided that the Armed Forces participate in patrol, mobile and air surveillance, prevention, detection, first intervention, heating and post-forest fire surveillance. Therefore, essentially, the petition will be answered. Still, it will come to mind that the need to fight fires, mobilising vast resources, including expensive air resources, arises because, times too many, no good prevention prevents the outbreak of fire. Here, it is never more emphasized the generous effort of firemen and populations throughout the country to fight fires. But we do not fail to note that five times more financial resources are still being spent on combating forest fire than on preventing it. The little attention and support, which for many years has been given to forest slags, which are absolutely essential in the prevention of fires, is the final demonstration of this reversal of priorities. On the other hand, prevention itself is all the more insufficient and more disordered is rural space and, in particular, forest areas. As long as there are large continuous forest spots, the large forest fires are inevitable, no matter how clean they are done, by many means that are available for combat and for much effort and effort that the firefighters of Portugal put in it. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the drastic reduction in burnt forest areas is achieved with better combat (yes! ) , using Air Force aircraft ( of course! ) , with much better prevention and, going to the bottom of the matter, promoting the indispensable forestry reorganisation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u311	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Jorge Machado.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u312	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I naturally begin on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party by welcoming the more than 32 000 petitioners who pose the problem of combating fires and using the means of the Air Force in this same fight. The use of Air Force means in the fight against fire is not a new issue and successive governments have been degrading the capacity that the Air Force could have in this context. But more than degrading the response capacity of the Air Force itself, successive governments have been degrading and privatizing all air resources, maintaining them and also their operational management. What happened to the Kamovs, the shameful process of the Kamovs...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u313	Well, well! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u314	... clearly demonstrates that the process of privatization of means and maintenance of equipment must be terminated and it is important to catch up on this. The CFP argues that the Portuguese State must ensure its own resources and its own maintenance for air-based fire fighting. Having said that, we understand that the Air Force must, first of all, build capacities, this is about building capacities that have been lost, to collaborate in the fight against fires under the protection of civil protection. And the key word, at the constitutional level, which obliges us to repeat it is the word « collaboration». It is not substitution, it is not assumption by the Air Force of missions and assignments that are not theirs and that constitutionally cannot be theirs but, yes, collaboration with the means of protection and civil protection missions. in this sense, we place this same focus on the question of collaboration rather than civil protection and therefore we see no problem in which the Air Force, in collaboration with the means of civil protection, can perform functions under the protection and guidance of the civil authorities in this fight against fires, taking into account this same safeguard. But fundamental is that the Portuguese State ensures the capacity, the air resources to end the flood of private people that PSD and CDS-PP have promoted for many and many years.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u315	Have shame! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u316	Mr Luís Pedro Pimentel has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u317	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The petition and draft resolution under discussion in this debate are aimed at the commitment of the Portuguese Air Force to combat forest fires. I take this time to greet the petitioners here present and say from now on that the PSD Parliamentary Group understands its claim and is in favour of the involvement of military resources in supporting civil protection, in this particular case, in preventing and combating the scourge of forest fires. As evidenced in the draft resolution presented by the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, this is a will that is not new and was launched by the previous PSD/CDS Government. In fact, in 2013 a Working Group for the Airways used in Public Interest Missions was set up to present a study on the active involvement of the Air Force in the prevention and fight against forest fires. This study was completed on 15 September 2015 and left a set of recommendations for the Portuguese Air Force to replace the service operator, at the level of civil protection, emergency and internal security missions, and the existence of a component consisting of permanent State-owned own resources operated by the Air Force, and a seasonal component consisting of permanent means and means to be contracted to deal with the most critical periods, particularly in the peak of forest fires. The PSD does not make sense of duplication of resources and waste of public resources in combating forest fires. The Air Force must be equipped, as planned, with the means that enable it to have a relevant role in this area with the added benefit of the increase of flight hours for our pilots, as is desired by the Air Force. It is also important to note that the Portuguese Army, following a partnership with Portuguese civil protection, will involve around 1300 soldiers this year in the prevention and fight against forest fires, with training actions to be carried out in White Castle and the provision of individual protective material to prevent what unfortunately happened last year, when the military were involved in the heating of forest fires without any appropriate equipment and training. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a fundamental area for the interest of the State and it is important that, more than declarations of intent and political accusations, the best resources can be affected to prevent and combat forest fires. As much as the current government wants to make you feel this is not a new matter, nor is it an unprecedented decision of the Ministries of National Defence and Internal Administration. The use of the Air Force media was already planned and was not only implemented by the previous PSD/CDS government because, despite having won the elections, it was prevented by the left-wing management from again leading the country's destinations, as the Portuguese wanted. [[PCP protests.]] Let us now hope that the current Executive will be able to move from words to acts and, therefore, that this cooperation will really be possible, which will make it possible to make the state's resources more profitable and improve the response in the prevention and fight against forest fires. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u318	For an intervention, Mr José Miguel Medeiros has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u319	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming on my behalf and on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group the subscribers of the petition we are discussing today and which concerns the involvement of the Air Force in the fight against forest fires. It is always a relevant moment for our democracy, when a matter goes up to plenary as a result of a civil society initiative and, above all, when that initiative was signed by more than 30 000 citizens. If there were any doubts about the importance that the community attaches to the problem of forest fires, the object of this petition and the universe of subscribers achieved are well elucidative of the importance that this theme has in Portuguese society. It is also said, because it is fair, that this is a matter that has always deserved attention from this House, both in plenary and in permanent and possible committees. Also because it is true and for reasons of justice, we must say that this is a matter to which successive governments have devoted their attention. Not always successful, too. We are therefore faced with a problem which is not new and which is recognised as transversal and complex and which, as such, requires an integrated response. For this reason, the current government has been successful when, immediately after the critical period of the 2016 fires, elected the reform of the forest sector as an absolute priority, triggering a wide public debate around concrete measures and proposals. this process has already resulted in the adoption, on 21 March, of a set of measures in the field of prevention, surveillance and fire control, together with measures to promote forest sustainability. in the set of measures approved, it is therefore highlighted the effective strengthening of the participation of the Armed Forces in the fire forest defense system, particularly in the operational component, going to meet the National Defense Strategic Concept, which is already visible in the way the Armed Forces themselves are facing this mission, betting on the specialized training of their men and their appropriate protective equipment. this week, it was already possible to see joint work on the ground between the Armed Forces and the National Civil Protection Authority in the training and training of the military in the field of prevention and fight against forest fires. It is in this framework to strengthen the involvement of the Armed Forces, which also includes the direct involvement of the Air Force, in particular their participation in the fight against fires, whether with own resources, either in the management, command and control of air operations, or in the operation of the State's air resources. They have also been approved and forwarded guidelines—and this is a very relevant aspect—in the sense of the Armed Forces and, in particular, the Air Force consider the ability to combat forest fires in aircraft acquisition decisions, valuing the concept of "double use" of military equipment. All this will be done, of course, in a context of permanent analysis of the cost/benefit relationship between the acquisition and rental of air resources dedicated to the fight against forest fires. For all these reasons, we are sure that 2017 will be a year that will positively mark the future of our forest and, in particular, the part of the forest defense against fires. It therefore seems legitimate to us to conclude that the object of the petition we are considering and, as a result, that of the draft resolution of the CDS is already being implemented by the current government, through the policy measures adopted, and that should be a source of satisfaction for all Portuguese and for this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u320	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u321	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, I would like to greet some 32 000 petitioners who addressed the Assembly of the Republic, concerned about something which I believe concerns everyone, which is precisely the issue of forest fires. The Greens have always said, and they repeat — it must be said every time we talk about forest fires — that we have to wager much more in prevention. The investment that is being made in combat is incompatible with that which is made in prevention. And, in this legislature, The Greens, in line with proposals that have already been put forward in other legislatures, but which have been rejected, have been investing a lot, in particular with the Government, to order our forest. in the area of prevention, it is essential to take this step. in this sense, The Greens fought a lot so that, in Portugal, once and for all, if the area of the eucalyptus had stagnated. The firemen, this summer, told us: "Get the eucalyptus out of the way! Take these continuous spots of eucalyptus from the front! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” In fact, we have a forest that looks like a trail, given the continuous hectares and hectares of fast-growing monocultures that, indeed, have an impact on the size of forest fires. And it is clear that the size of forest fires will eventually impact on a much more difficult fight. There is absolutely no doubt about it! I wanted to leave here once again a word of praise to the Portuguese firemen, who are, in fact, absolutely untiring and inexhaustible in their public service to the country. But strengthening the means of combat, in our view, is also important. And if the Air Force has the capacity to make a contribution in this fight, we believe that this contribution must be made and that all entities that can contribute in this direction must be involved. Therefore, we believe that petitioners are right when they say that the Air Force should be involved. This issue of air resources has given much discussion in Portugal, in order to know whether we should have our own means, whether we should have our own means or what means we should have. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what ruinous contracts have been made in this area? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u322	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u323	What consequences have arisen from the privatization of the maintenance and operational management of these air resources? Oh, my God! Open... There were, in fact, absolutely bad policies on this matter...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u324	The Minister was the current Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u325	... and we must also learn, with clarity and awareness of the concrete consequences that have resulted from these bad policies in order, in fact, to rectify these errors. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u326	For one last speech, Mr João Rebelo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u327	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to clarify some aspects which I noted with regard to Mr Jorge Machado. Our draft resolution does indeed speak in collaboration and does not speak in substitution. We speak of collaboration between the Portuguese Air Force and the National Civil Protection Authority. You are right, Mr President, because our Constitution creates some barriers to this, which I do not agree with, and so I would like it to be amended, but it is the Constitution that we have and we must respect. We also know that your party has a clear vision of understanding that, as it is, the Constitution is well, so, as we have to do, the text speaks of collaboration and cannot speak of substitution. I would just like to correct that in relation to Kamov, it was not a decision of the PSD/CDS government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u328	But the maintenance was!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u329	...it was a previous government, at the time, of the Socialist Party. So we have not taken that decision on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u330	António Costa, current Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u331	I just wanted to say that our proposal speaks of permanent means delivered to the Air Force and, in more intense periods of fire, the use of means renting, also operated by the Air Force, to ensure a more effective fight. It is not worth having a lot of resources throughout the year, but rather have sufficient and high resources in the most intense periods of combat. And, of course, in periods where there are no fires, it is important to have the number of sufficient means for training and the readiness of Air Force pilots. With regard to what Mr José Miguel Medeiros said, I note the tone of the honourable Member and I have to tell him that I thought it very positive. As you know, this morning, I don't know what you gave Mr. Minister but you had a... Anyway, I'm not going to say here the words that went through my head, but, as we have seen, it's a subject that unites us, indisputably, it's not a theme to divide us, and I liked the tone that was used by Mr. You are right, Mr, because part of the ideas that developed in 2015 also appear in the document that was approved by the Council of Ministers last Thursday. This CDS resolution project was already waiting to be delivered for some time, but, as you know, the petition was delivered on August 30 last year and so we waited for it to be scheduled to be able to join these ideas. The initiatives are very similar, they are complementary, there are some more intense ones on your side, others more intense on our side, but it would be good for Parliament to adopt this resolution. It is that there was a document approved by the Government, but it would also be a signal to the petitioners that the Assembly of the Republic has a more or less united view of the participation of the Air Force or a more relevant role of the Air Force, in collaboration with the National Civil Protection Authority.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u332	Mr. João Rebelo, I would like you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u333	I'm done right now, Mr. President. I think it would be important for the House to approve this draft resolution to pass this message to the Portuguese population. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-29.u334	Mrs. Members, the discussion of petition No 165 / XIII ( 1 ) is closed. ( a ) and draft resolution No 769 / XIII ( 2. ( a). I should like to inform you that the next plenary session will be held tomorrow from 3 p.m. to 3 p.m. of the first item on the agenda of tomorrow's sitting is the joint discussion, in general, of the proposal for a law No 61 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — establishes the legal regime for the prevention, prohibition and combat of discrimination on the basis of racial and ethnic origin, colour, nationality, descent and territory of origin, and of the projects of lein. 470 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Strengthens the system of penalties applicable to discrimination due to disability by amending Article 240. the Criminal Code ( CDS-PP ), and 471 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Penal Code by strengthening the fight against racial discrimination (BE). in the second point, we will evaluate jointly, in general, the projects of lein.os 457 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amendment to the Law establishing the schemes for the linkage of careers and remuneration of employees who perform public functions ( PSD ) and 475 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establish conditions for equality between workers in career progression by managerial option ( CFP ). in the third point, we will discuss together, in general, the projects of lein.os 436 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Alter the Civil Code, eliminating discrimination between men and women in matters of international time ( BE ), 472 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Review the legal regime of impediments enshrined in the Civil Code, reviewing the time limits applicable to the celebration of marriages ( PS ), and 474 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Ensures the individual freedom of each person to enter into marriage by eliminating the period of time provided for in Article 1605. the Civil Code ( PAN ). Then we will jointly appreciate draft resolutions Nos 656 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government immediately reverse the increase in the cost of tolls of A22 by maintaining its freezing until the requalification works of EN125 are completed ( CDS-PP ), 674 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by abolishing tolls on the Way of the Child ( PCP ), 621 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government suspend the collection of tolls in A22 until the completion of the requalification works of EN125, and to the extent that such works close or produce substantial constraints on circulation ( PSD ), 691 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Determines the elimination of tolls on A22 / Child Route ( BE ) and 767 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Elimination of the collection of tolls on the Via do Infante ( The Greens ). Finally, we will jointly, in general, appreciate the projects of lein.o 476 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Suspends the arrangements for updating the value of meals and the housing supplement in public higher education institutions ( CFP ), 440 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Determination of housing prices and meals for higher education students according to the social support indexer ( PSD ), 473 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Automatic indexation of the maximum meal and accommodation prices for students in higher education than the social support indexer ( PS ) and 469 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Setting housing and meals prices to public higher education students based on the social support indexer ( CDS-PP ). Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your cooperation during this afternoon's work and I wish everyone a good day to continue. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 15 minutes.]]
