ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 10 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. Mrs. Members of the first item on today's agenda are generally the joint debate on the proposals of lein. 83 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establishes the status of the company recovery mediator 84 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the extrajudicial scheme for the recovery of undertakings, 85 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the legal arrangements for the conversion of credits to capital, 86 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amends the legal regime of entry, stay, exit and removal of foreigners from national territory and transposes Directives 2014 / 36 / EU, 2014 / 66 / EU and ( EU) 2016 / 801 and 87 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the tax procedure and procedure and draft law No 429 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the regime for the regularisation of undocumented foreign citizens ( CFP ). For an intervention, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Trade has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: From the outset, the Government has taken as an essential aim for the relaunch of the Portuguese economy the improvement of the conditions underpinning the investment of companies, including the resolution of their financing problems, taking into account, among other aspects, their low level of financial autonomy and high indebtedness; excessive dependence on bank financing and the excessive cost of financing micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. in 2016, the government approved the Capitalization Program, one of the key pillars of our National Reform Programme, organized around five strategic intervention axes. Recalling: administrative simplification and systemic framework; taxation; leverage of financing and investment; dynamisation of the capital market and business restructuring. The package of measures presented here today is an integral part of the reform of the legal regime of the mechanisms for the recovery and restructuring of companies, which seeks to be deeply effective and profound in the efficiency associated with the simplicity of their procedures. The most important element of this reform is the strengthening of the conditions that contribute to ensuring, through a more rapid and early intervention, the recovery of viable enterprises and thus ensuring the continuity of their economic value, the continuing employment they represent and the stability of the business ecosystem in which they operate. These measures, like all the other measures of the Capitalization Programme, were discussed and prepared with the involvement of civil society and in conjunction with the various actors involved, resulting in an open and participatory process, taking advantage of their experience and knowledge. These proposals therefore end up with innovations which are considered to be decisive in improving the context in which Portuguese companies operate, stressing here, first, the creation of an extrajudicial scheme for the restructuring of companies which aims to promote, through the use of an extrajudicial mechanism, the rapid restructuring of firms in difficulties, but with potential viability. This scheme also allows access to the same tax treatment as it has so far been reserved only for agreements in a special process of revitalization and insolvency. Secondly, the creation of the company recovery mediator, who, through its training and experience, can support companies in difficult situations in making a diagnosis of this situation, in preparing a recovery plan and in conducting negotiations with their creditors. Thirdly, the creation of a new system for the conversion of loans into capital, which enables majority creditors of a company to fail to convert their credits into social capital, thus favouring a rapid restructuring of their balance sheet. Fourth, the possibility of companies under extrajudicial recovery arrangements to have payment plans in benefits in the same terms currently provided for in insolvency plans. There is also provision for the provision of additional guarantees under these performance plans, as well as for the inclusion of tax debts relating to previous but only later worked out tax cases. This package of measures also includes: greater flexibility in the management of the resources of the Tax and Customs Authority, enabling the creation of a single counter for the articulated management of its credits and social security, for the purposes of the executive process, and the introduction of amendments to the so-called law of foreigners, transposing three Community directives on the transfer of workers and researchers and adding measures to increase the attractiveness of our country. A special scheme of residence authorisation is thus envisaged for holders, administrators and employees of undertakings moving to Portugal and the extension of the investment residence permits scheme, covering more types of investment, especially in small and medium-sized enterprises, including considering the transfer of capital by €350,000 or more for the creation of enterprises, or strengthening their social capital, provided that at least 5 permanent jobs are created or maintained, and capital transfers equal to or greater than €200 000 in firms in difficult economic situations and which are with a recovery plan. We are therefore faced with the proposal to create a legislative framework which can, and should, be regarded as one of Europe's most advanced business restructuring structures and which aims to provide new instruments for companies, their creditors and investors who wish to bet on their recovery and safeguard jobs and the economic value inherent to viable businesses, and to create a favourable framework for improving the competitiveness of national enterprises, in particular micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, and thereby to increase the competitiveness of the Portuguese economy as a whole, leading them to grow more and create more qualified jobs. This is the objective of the Capitalisation Programme and it is with this conviction that the Government is here today presenting this fundamental set of measures. We want to give even more support to the climate of strong confidence that the economy lives today, we want to give even more support to the pace of economic growth since the middle of last year, with particular emphasis on the evolution of exports and business investment, and we want to give even more support to the favourable evolution of employment indicators in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u3	Mr Secretary of State, you have signed up to request clarifications of four Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Pedro Mota Soares has already said that he wants to answer together.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u4	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the best thing you can say about the regime you have just presented is that it is a bit the gloss of that famous story that happened in the Faculty of Law of Lisbon : this regime has good and original ideas; it is a shame that the good ideas are not original and that the original ideas are not good.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u5	That's not original either.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u6	Let me talk a little bit about the good ideas. It is a good idea to allow, facilitate and encourage the capitalisation of Portuguese companies, and, above all, it is very important that we can reduce the indebtedness of Portuguese companies in our economy. The last given by Banco de Portugal is very worrying: the indebtedness of the Portuguese economy, in April this year, was the highest ever. Only to have a comparison, from March to April rose about EUR 5000 million. That is why it makes every sense that we take steps to help companies not have as their exclusive way, to be able to invest, to go to the bank. That is why, in this sense, this is something positive and, for example, this scheme which allows the conversion of credits into social capital is a good measure. However, it has an originality which no longer seems so positive and which is immediately in Article 2 ( 3 ). The diploma. the State is prohibited to convert the debt it has in the company's share capital. First of all, it seems to me that the State is setting a bad example, i.e. the State is asking the private to do what the State itself refuses to do and, worse than that, a company which has the chance to have debts to the State, even if it has credits to the State, will always remain in an insolvency situation, leading to this also the other debtors to not make this regime of conversion of credits to capital. Therefore, the first question I ask you, Mr Secretary of State, is why. As you know, that does not exist in other regimes. For example, it does not exist in the social security contribution code regime. However, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask you a second very relevant question, which has exactly to do with the situation of these companies which have debts to the State but which also have credits from the State. Undeclared credit, i.e. late payments from the State have now risen by around EUR 1000 million and rose by 46 % in central administration by the end of 2015. The Government had announced in the first quarter of 2013 that it would allow for the compensation of claims between a company which has a debt to the State, Social Security or AT ( Tax Authority ) and compensate for its claims. So I ask you where is this measure, which would be a very important measure for companies. The second good idea that this regime has is to facilitate the extrajudicial insolvency regime, which is, in fact, a good idea that is not original. In the past, very relevant schemes have been made, such as the SIREVE (Interjudicial Business Recovery System) and the PER (Special Revitalization Process) and, in this sense, there have been very important improvements. For example, forcing public creditors, State, Social Security and Tax Authority to dialogue and have a common position before assemblies is very relevant and, in the case of SIREVE, we do not forget that the success rate of SIREVE is 85 %. Therefore, companies that go to this scheme can effectively move from a pre-insolvency situation to a viability situation and that is positive. Certainly, this regime needs improvements. It is normal that, in particular, when assessing these schemes, it can be improved. in the case of the SIREVE until we understand that the low use of the SIREVE has to do with companies resorting more quickly to the PER than to the SIREVE itself, but I want to tell you that I am concerned about some of the measures that are set out here. For example, having as a minimum liability limit 15 %, which at present is one third, when this is added to the possibility that the company will remain in this regime, and can renew it almost automatically, can lead to situations of abuse, in particular harming other creditors who are also companies and thus distort even the rules of the market and free and healthy competition.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u8	I wonder if the Government is available to change this aspect of 15 % and I will keep for a final intervention other considerations on the remaining diplomas. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u9	Mr Paulino Ascenção has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u10	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, of course there is a problem of indebtedness to Portuguese companies, SMEs in particular, and a problem of decapitalisation. To a large extent, this is the result of the crisis and the wrong response given to it by the policies of impoverishment of the troika and the right government. It follows from this finding that the best solution to this problem will be to reinforce the policies that have been tested by this Government of growth, return on income, return on the huge increase in taxes that has been pursued by the previous Government and the commitment to public investment, which is so much lacking in consolidating this path and in sustaining the future growth of the economy. But there is also a structural factor of indebtedness that is inherent to the capitalist model, with its obsession with immediate results, by maximizing profit and the preference for distributing profits, which means decapitalizing rather than reinvesting. However, there is room for other models of economic organization that favour the long-term, collective interest, social and environmental responsibility that are represented by public entities or, for example, by cooperatives, who do not decapitalize, do not distribute profits, do not dislocation and are rooted in the territory. The Government is bringing about a set of measures that will have a positive impact on the recovery of companies. We welcome this intention and, of course, we will contribute to the discussion in the specialty, but we fear that this will not go beyond palliative treatments and that the scope is not too large, leaving from this set of measures the structural transformation that is necessary and only the growth will give that answer. I can still tell you two perplexities. There is a recital, which is the excessive exposure to bank credit, which is considered negative, but by this mechanism of the transformation of credits into capital, we will have this exposure to the reinforced bank, now not as a creditor but as a partner, possibly a majority. Now, is this to solve the problem or is it aggravating you, Secretary of State? Another perplexity relates to the fact that the State excludes itself from this mechanism, i.e. the claims that the State is the holder cannot be converted into capital. I would like to know what the reason is for this exclusion. Mr Secretary of State, in Europe cooperative banks are responsible for a significant share of the loans to small and medium-sized enterprises, but in Portugal it is forbidden by law to grant credit beyond agricultural activity. It is therefore necessary to lift this restriction. Mr. Minister of Economics expressed concern about the identity of the system of the Central Fund for Mutual Agricultural Credit, but these are two distinct things: one thing is having the preserved identity of the agricultural credit system and another is raising this restriction so that other entities can grant credit to the whole economy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u11	To request clarification, Mr. Luís Moreira Testa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u12	Mr President, Under-Secretary of State and Trade, the Capitalisation Programme is essentially responsible for business financing problems. The mechanisms presented today essentially respond to the imperative need to save viable companies that would otherwise succumb. Without these mechanisms, is it possible to evaluate how many hundred companies would be lost in the coming years? It is possible to evaluate. Is it possible to evaluate how many thousands of jobs would be lost in the coming years? It is possible to evaluate. And it's possible to evaluate how? It is possible to assess the recent past, which represented the destruction of hundreds of businesses and thousands of jobs. It is in this sense that I ask the Government what it expects of these measures as regards its objective, obviously saving companies and jobs. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u13	Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u14	Mr President, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Trade, the Government presented, in this package of initiatives, a bill yesterday in the context of a debate in 6. the Parliamentary Commission, it seemed a bit strange to all members of the various parties because it is a proposal which is entitled 'to facilitate residence authorization for investment' but, in fact, the essential of the proposal and the amendments it proposes to the law in order to facilitate investment more seems to facilitate the golden visas, since it lowers the amount necessary to acquire them. Indeed, this proposal, covered by a somewhat pious intention, proposes that this residence permit for investment be channelled to the transfer of capital to the establishment of companies or capital reinforcement or, then, to the introduction of capital for the recovery investment of undertakings under special recovery plan. in practice, this already existed from the point of view of residence permits for immigration that had been contemplated through the acquisition of golden visas. The balance sheet data that the Foreign and Border Service makes from the use of the golden visas, that is, to where the money that they made up the purchase of these visas has been channelled, are quite elucidative as to what they represent from the point of view of the economy. In four years of golden visa application, which amounted to a total of EUR 2400 million collected, only EUR 300 million effectively translated into investment, i.e. 12, 5 % of the total EUR 2400 million. In concrete terms, EUR 300 million. Now these EUR 300 million have been used to create 10 jobs, Mr Secretary of State — 10 jobs! — and the other EUR 2100 million have been applied in the purchase of buildings. Therefore, the intention to channel the amounts applied on golden visas for the economy is pious and it is more worth calling this « residence authorisation for emigration » rather than « residence authorisation for investment ». Mr Secretary of State, in conclusion, I would like to tell you and the Government that, if the aim is to discuss visasgolds, then let us discuss visasgolds without any kind of shortcuts, screens or masks, because they want to introduce or facilitate a practice with which we are in complete disagreement, which is immigration for rich, and introduce a discriminatory practice of immigration based only on the value of the capital displayed and not on the basis of an immigration policy that effectively resolves this discrimination and introduces more transparent criteria, especially more democratic, into immigration. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u15	To reply, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Trade has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u16	Mr President, Mr Heitor Sousa, precisely because of the recognition that the visasgold, in the format that has existed so far, are not producing effects on the investment that can be channelled to the productive economy in Portugal, the Government submits these adjustment proposals to reinforce that this path is managed by international investors and that the money they place in Portugal is not only channelled to the real estate sector but also to create conditions for this money to reach Portuguese companies and, above all, to businesses that have needs for restructuring. That, therefore, is the thrust of the proposal that is now being presented. Mr Paulino Ascenção, from the Left Block, asked whether we are creating conditions for creditors to become business partners. That's true. We are, in fact, doing so, bringing formalism to something that has already happened in practice. When a company has its own capital below its social capital, in practice creditors are already owners of the company. We therefore want to create conditions to make this transparent, protect the economic value of the company, protect the employment that the company represents and protect what the company represents for the ecosystem in which it is inserted, because it has relations with suppliers and has relations with customers. By making this transparent and creating a defence framework for all these interests, we believe that, by this way, we are creating conditions for the company to continue to be active, continue to create jobs and continue to create investment. On the various questions asked by Mr Pedro Mota Soares of the CDS, I want to say that there is an agreement on the diagnosis of the situation that Portugal is currently facing. Portugal has an indebted economy and it was precisely because of this that the Portuguese Government presented the Capitalisation Programme. I remember that from the very first moment—it was in December 2015, just less than a month after taking possession, that the Portuguese Government appointed the Mission Structure that was the origin of the Capitalization Program in 2016—there was recognition of this diagnosis, which led to the presentation of this set of measures. With regard to the fact that the State is being deprived of the possibility of transforming credits into capital, taking into account the magnitude of the problem—and the CDS has just recognised—, we did not seem to have the present state in power in a large set of companies. This must be left to the private to resolve and we are creating conditions for this to be done effectively and quickly. On the issue of the correctness that should be done quickly, it has already been mentioned that there are schemes which allow the creation of this business restructuring mechanism, and in particular the SIREVE has been mentioned. It is true that the SIREVE already existed, it is true that the system was effective in finding solutions for the companies that joined it, but it is also true that few companies have access to the SIREVE. There are a number of constraints that SIREVE has and have been identified in what led to the creation of the Extrajudicial Business Recovery Scheme. The idea here is precisely to create conditions to overcome the negative constraints on access for companies that could be viable if restructured and create conditions for this regime to be more accessible to be used. The ultimate objective is always to preserve the economic value of companies, preserve employment and create conditions for companies to be productive in the medium and long term. With regard to the questions put by Mr. Luís Moreira Testa, of the PS, concerning the objective of the Government, it is not possible at this time to quantify the impact of the Capitalisation Programme in its various dimensions, but the objective is to create a favourable framework for all participating actors who are relevant in the restructuring of companies in Portugal to do so rapidly, effectively, protecting once again the interests of workers, the interests of companies and the interest of Portugal as a whole, because Portugal will benefit from having companies that are robust from the point of view of their capital, since this will allow them to grow more and invest more. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u17	To present Bill No. 429 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the regime for the regularization of undocumented foreign citizens ( PCP ), Mr António Filipe speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The Government submits a bill amending the so-called "foreigner law" with concerns primarily focused on investment and capital. The PCP Parliamentary Group has proposed that this debate of its draft law on the amendment to the law of concerned foreigners, fundamentally, with whom it works, with the situation of the people working in Portugal, who live here and remain in an illegal situation. This is our greatest concern about the law of foreigners, insofar as there is no mechanism which, on a permanent and non-exceptional basis, allows people who have not entered Portugal regularly, therefore, persons who are in an illegal situation but who live and work in our country, who have the right to a legal mechanism to allow their regularization, not being dependent on extraordinary regularization processes, which have already been relatively failed, nor on the goodwill of the services, in this case of the Foreign and Border Services, which, through discretion, can allow the regularization of this or that citizen. Therefore, the CFP proposes that a change to the law of foreigners be made to find a stable criterion allowing a citizen who, for any reason, when he entered Portugal did not have a regular situation, may have his status legalized as long as certain proposals are met, i.e., as long as he is working, he is not, of course, accused of an illegal person who questions his stay or his regularization, has the means to provide his subsistence or who lives in Portugal for a reasonable period of time that enables him to assess the relevance of his regularization. That is what we propose here in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u20	With regard to concerns about investment, with capital, to give rise to the extension of the scope of the golden visas, which have already been shown to be a mechanism, from our point of view, unestimable, what we propose is that people working in Portugal, contributing to the development of our country with its workforce, be recognized with the dignity they deserve and that it is possible to regularize it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u21	For an intervention, Mr Joel Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating three proposals for legislation today, and one is establishing the status of the company recovery mediator, another is approving the extrajudicial system for the recovery of companies and, another, approving the legal regime for the conversion of capital credits. I recall that the PSD government, which inherited a country in pre-banking and had to rule under the protection of a troika, did not cease to take various political and legislative initiatives in the field of the economy. Aware of the difficulties of Portuguese companies, the PSD/CDS-PP Government was tireless in creating legislative mechanisms alternative to insolvency law. And more: the government of then launched the Revitalization Programme in January 2012. This programme had as its priority objectives: the implementation of effective mechanisms for the revitalization of viable enterprises in the areas of insolvency and recovery of enterprises; the development of rapid and effective mechanisms in the articulation of enterprises with the State, in particular with Social Security and Tax Administration ; the strengthening of the financial instruments available for the capitalization and restructuring of enterprises, among others. The PSD/CDS Government also promoted in 2012 the sixth amendment to the Insolvency and Business Recovery Code, approved by Decree-Law No 53 / 2004, simplifying formalities and procedures and establishing the Special Revitalization Process ( PER ). And it is clear that the diploma was approved in this Chamber but with the votes against the CFP, BE, The Greens and the PS's abstention. Times change, attitudes change! In 2015, the Government of then created the Business Recovery System via Extrajudicial Way and, in addition, with the aim of financially supporting business restructuring processes, a new Business Revitalization Support Line was launched in April 2015 amounting to EUR 50 million. The figure of mediation is not new to us either. In fact, this Assembly of the Republic approved Law No 29 / 2013, which came to establish the general principles applicable to mediation carried out in Portugal, as well as the legal regimes of civil and commercial mediation of mediators and public mediation. But go there to know why, that diploma was approved with the votes against the PCP, BE and Les Verdes and, once again, the abstention of the PS. Times change, attitudes change! Already in this legislature, we have presented a legislative initiative on the capitalisation of companies that have deserved the lead of the majority that this government supports. And, however, they now present these bills to us. Times change, attitudes change! Here is the coherence of the parties that support this government solution. In short, PSD has done a lot for companies...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u23	Yeah, he did so much, so much so that it ended with thousands of them!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u24	...and this government is expected to do so too. We expect a responsible government to add to what the previous government has done. That's what the country and companies expect the government to do. In favour of Portuguese companies, it is not enough to say what is done. in practice, what they want to do is repeat what the previous government did with a new layer, saying that these measures are the author of this government. Do it! That's what you're required to do. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u25	Mr Fernando Anastácio has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u26	Mr President, Mr Joel Sá, I fully agree with you on one thing: in fact, times are changing and attitudes must change. So his speech is a speech from the past—in fact, from the rostrum, he did not talk about the problems of the Portuguese today, he did not talk about solutions for the future, he spoke about the failures of his government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is that the measures he has mentioned have led to the greatest destruction of companies in Portugal, leading to the greatest increase in unemployment.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u27	Yours took the country to bankruptcy! To bankruptcy!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u28	And that is why you have omitted, because you cannot really talk about it, because you have no history, you have no record of allowing you to talk about the solution of the problems. Mr President, it continues in the past that we, this government and the majority who support it, are committed to dealing with the problems of Portuguese and the future of Portuguese. With regard to the measures that are on the table today, I would like to highlight a few remarks that have been made here and, in particular, to comment on a reference recently made on why the State cannot turn its claims into capital. It is very strange that it is the CDS-PP to have this concern, i.e. to defend the participation of state capital in companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u29	To reply, Mr Joel Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u30	Mr. President, Mr. Member, I would like to ask you where you were in May 2011...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u31	What about April 25th? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u32	...and remind us of the bankruptcy situation in which your government and your party left us. [[PS protests.]] It is important not to forget and remind the Portuguese that all the sacrifices for which they passed were thanks to their government and it was thanks to your action that led to the bankruptcy in which they left our country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u33	I was hoping that the honourable Member would ask me a question, but he evidently put the question to the CDS, because he also had no question to ask us. We proved in the government that we were concerned about the recovery of companies and...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u34	They were, they were! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u35	...with the bankruptcy situation in which you left the country. The difficulties that companies have gone through are due to your governance, it is due to what you have done while they have ruled.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u36	What about the companies that failed?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u37	Thank you for what you have done, taking the country to bankruptcy. Therefore, the PS here should be ashamed to speak to the Portuguese in the business situation, because it was the PS that left companies bankrupt and in a difficult situation. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u38	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The indebtedness and difficulties of access to financing by micro, small and medium-sized enterprises are structural problems of Portuguese business fabric that have become even more serious with the increase in tax burden and the dramatic situation that this represented in conjunction with the deep crisis and the impoverishment that the right policies imposed on the country. But these problems, of course, are inseparable from the fundamental issue, which will still come back to the debate at this meeting, which is the role of the bank and the financial sector in the national economy. And this role has been and has been of weakening, asphyxiation and drainage of the resources of the economy and of the companies of this country. Therefore, any approach to the question of the capitalisation of companies that do not face the underlying problem, the strategy of the operation of the bank and its control will inevitably be an incomplete approach and palliative measures. We agree that, in this context, the country's experience with these processes — PER, SIREVE, Revitalize, etc. — it is far from brilliant. The relevance and impact of these processes on the economy are far from having the brightness that the PSD and CDS come here to boast. In fact, they have very little to boast because, for example, social security itself would have much to tell about the impact that many of these processes have had on workers' heritage. With this extrajudicial business recovery regime, there is a concern that has already been raised, which is the issue of the vulnerability of companies to the bank and the financial sector. This issue of vulnerability, fragility and inequality of the negotiating position, totally at the mercy of the bank that has these credits, is a concern that comes from behind and that remains in this discussion. With this extrajudicial company recovery scheme, the new figure and the new status of the recovery mediator is proposed, which was from the outset one of the measures outlined in the programme. With regard to this proposal, it is important to stress that the intervention of well-qualified, specialized management professionals can be crucial to the success of the plans approved in negotiations between the debtor and some of the creditors. It is important, of course, that the conditions are created for these professionals to respond effectively to these solutions, and it will be important, therefore, to ensure the best solutions in the regulation and application of this scheme, from specific training to the requirements and conditions of activity, without forgetting a very important issue which is that of the conditions under which the IAPMEI may respond to the particular responsibilities it will assume with the management of the entire process in this field of mediators, and of course we are talking about the means and working conditions of the IAPMEI, starting even with the stability of the links. As regards the proposal for a law on the legal regime for the conversion of loans to capital, the question has already been raised here in which the State itself is a creditor of companies and the role it may or may not take in these proceedings. But there is a fundamental concern that we highlight in this matter, which is that it does not become a scheme for the recovery of enterprises and their viability, which is something else that would pervert this objective and give rise to a kind of legal regime of the butter funds. That is, if an indebted company with negative own capital is confronted with someone who has acquired the credits, if the answer to the company's difficulties is to enable it, to certain entities that acquire the non-subordinated credits, above and above the friend price, to the creditors of these companies, concentrating most of these credits to carry out proceedings...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u40	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u41	I will finish, Mr. President. ...purchasing and concentrating, or even dismantling and selling to the parts for rapid gains and moving to the next company, then, we are facing a problem that has to be put in the debate and must be taken into account for what we are discussing and approving. These are the concerns that we want to leave at this stage and that we have taken all of you into account. Ladies and gentlemen. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u42	Mr António Eusebio has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen: the times change, attitudes change and therefore we need to develop new solutions to continue to generate confidence in entrepreneurs. The Government's programme has thus assumed among its main objectives for relaunching the Portuguese economy and creating jobs to reduce the high level of corporate indebtedness and improve the conditions for investment, in particular by eliminating or mitigating constraints currently facing companies in access to equity or other financing. The definition of these objectives is underlying the assumption that business investment should play a leading role in the strong and sustained recovery of economic growth. The proposed law which the Government is bringing us is intended to approve the status of the company recovery mediator, which should assist a debtor undertaking in a difficult economic situation or in insolvency, in particular in negotiations with its creditors, with a view to achieving an extrajudicial restructuring agreement aimed at its recovery. The proposal also aims to create an extrajudicial system for the recovery of companies, an instrument through which a debtor in a difficult economic situation or impending insolvency may commence negotiations with all or some of his creditors with a view to reaching a voluntary free content agreement and, as a rule, confidential, tending to recover them. On the basis of the five strategic axes, the Government approved the Capitalisation Programme as a strategic programme to support enterprise capitalisation, to resume investment and to relaunch the economy, with the aim of promoting more balanced financial structures, reducing the liabilities of economically viable enterprises, even with high debt levels, and improving the conditions for access to the financing of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. This programme has two priorities: on the one hand, capitalisation, with which it aims to promote a structured approach to financing instruments, stimulate the use of sources of financing alternative to banking credit and stimulate and accelerate access to structural funds and foreign investment; on the other hand, the creation of financial instruments designed to restructure and relaunch viable enterprises with potential for expansion and the optimization of the legal framework applicable to business restructuring. To this end, the proposal is still intended to provide companies and their creditors with legal and professional tools to assist recovery processes, in particular by judicial means. Finally, at the level of corporate capitalisation, the measures which have resulted in a strong fiscal stimulus to the strengthening of equity through the extension of the scope of the system of conventional remuneration for social capital, ensuring fiscal neutrality vis-à-vis bank credit financing, as well as capitalisation incentives for startups. In order to achieve greater efficiency in the management of treasury and in the medium and long-term financing of companies, the implementation of the self-liquidation of customs VAT, included in the State Budget Act for 2017 and the lines of Credit Capitalize, is highlighted. This is a fundamental proposal for many companies, this is a proposal that responds to the concerns and difficulties of many entrepreneurs, ensuring their recovery and, with investment, the maintenance of thousands of jobs. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u44	Mr José Silvano, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: It does not seem but we are also discussing a proposal for a law of the Government on the legal regime for the entry, stay, exit and removal of foreigners, and also a draft law of the CFP on the regime for the regularization of undocumented foreign citizens. I must say, in order to be consistent, that a few days ago, when we also discussed the nationality project here, I have categorically stated that the primacy of stability and legal certainty in these matters must be an essential value. He also said, and I repeat today, because it is even more current, that if Portugal has a policy of integration of immigrants capable of appearing in 1. the location of the index of evaluation of immigration integration policies, I do not understand very well — indeed, I don't think anyone understands — that there are continuous changes to legislation. To do what? In addition to 1. the place, there's nowhere else to be. I also have some doubts that, from the amendments introduced here, we cannot risk losing this place and what the current legislation has brought up to date in the economy, tourism and other activities that depend heavily on people's trust and on this matter. Therefore, in relation to Bill No 86 / XIII ( 2 ). (a ) presented today, which deals only with the transposition of three Community directives on this matter, we have nothing to oppose, i.e., is the consequence of the transposition of these directives which leads to some changes in immigration law. So we'll say it's natural. The proposed amendments are a consequence not of an own initiative but of the application of these directives and because they specifically concern the country, including highly qualified research activities, seasonal employment and even the transfer of workers to businesses. These are activities that need to be regulated for this competitiveness that we have in our economy. However, the proposal of the CFP, in our understanding, has requirements that can cause some risks.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u46	So say there!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u47	by making it dependent on the legalization of undocumented persons only on two conditions, i.e. having minimum economic conditions for the support of themselves and residing since 1 July 2015 in Portugal may be insufficient, or not sufficiently substantiated, requirements to achieve legalisation. We have doubts, at least. And the doubts are not only ours, but also other entities clearly say that the minimum conditions for the sustainability of themselves should also extend to the family. Why is it that the minimum conditions for sustainability are not of the own and the family aggregate, since the legislation also wants the family aggregate to have access to the existing documentation? This is a question that arises not only to us, but also to some entities that have spoken here. There is also doubt whether the Advisory Council for Immigration Affairs (COCAI), by having access to concrete data from immigrants itself, can also not violate, as the National Data Protection Commission ( CNPD ) says, access to personal data, that the Commission itself sends some recommendation and some caution. We therefore say that, with regard to this proposal, we need to study more, to deepen, not to take risks, because the risks in this area can be risks to the national economy. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u48	Mr Pedro Mota Soares, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u49	Mr. President, I am renewing my compliments recently. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this debate, in addition to matters that have to do more directly with the Capitalisation Programme from the point of view of the recovery of companies, there is also a change to the regime of residence authorisations. I wanted to say, on behalf of the CDS, that we consider that this regime is, and was, a frankly positive regime,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u50	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u51	... a very important regime for the urban rehabilitation of our cities, a very important regime for the entire real estate sector which, in a very difficult time, has effectively managed to generate employment, generate more wealth for the country with this same change, a regime in this sense very similar to those that happened a little throughout Europe. But these regimes — we know from the beginning — always involve difficulties and risks. The first risk is that of the continuing legislative amendment, which is something that is not positive. Investors like stability, they do not like permanent changes to these regimes. I recall, moreover, that the last significant change to this regime was adopted in this House, but it was negotiated in all its points between the majority of the height and the largest political party of the opposition, the Socialist Party, and the Government, when it sent legislation to the Assembly of the Republic, jointly sent the regulation itself in such a way that it was clear and transparent to all who were concerned. This does not happen now, even if there are points in this diploma which seem to us to be worrying, particularly when the need for capital is greatly reduced, which is only €200 000, in the case of the entry of capital of a company in the process of PER (Special Revitalisation Process), which, of course, greatly enhances the risks that this scheme has — we know it has — and which must be corrected. Just to finish, Mr President, one last note. We now realize that the Socialist Party continues not to understand what the actual difficulties of companies are. Allowing the State to convert its capital credits is not to enter the capital of the companies, it is precisely to allow the company not to close, that the company does not go into insolvency.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u53	It's normal for this doubt to come from exactly the same people who promised until the end of the first quarter...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u54	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u55	... a scheme allowing tax credits to be compensated for the debts of the companies themselves, which has not happened so far. It is clear that they are far from what the real concerns of businesses, entrepreneurs and their workers are. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u56	For an intervention, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Trade has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think it was consensual in this debate that Portugal and Portuguese companies, particularly micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, are facing a debt problem today. It was recognizing this debt problem that the Portuguese Government, from the outset, assumed, appointed a mission structure which was responsible for conducting a study, an analysis of what was the starting point, either from the point of view of the problem, or from the point of view of the conditions that exist today to solve it, and this mission structure presented concrete proposals to improve what exists today. These proposals have benefited from what has been — and I would like to highlight this — the full participation not only of the Ministry of Economics but also of the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance, of the whole Government, but above all these three areas have worked in a great way to present the bills that are being submitted to Parliament today. The underlying and fundamental idea of all these bills is to ensure that viable companies can have conditions to make this viability effective. The problem that exists today is that viable companies only late enter the recovery system. It is necessary to anticipate this entry into the system, it is necessary to anticipate this ability to find solutions in advance in order to ensure that the economic value of the companies, that the employment they represent, has continuity and is not extinct by the fact that the process is not speedy, the process does not create conditions for coordination of what are the economic agents involved in the process. As regards the vulnerability of companies, it is true for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, but it has attempted to create conditions, in particular through the creation of the mediator figure, which is being presented here, in order to bring balance to what is the relationship between the company and its creditors. I believe that this can be guaranteed in this way and improved in the debate that will take place in the specialty. We are convinced, as a government, that today's proposals are a fundamental step forward that it is necessary to create guarantees for companies to survive, when they have the conditions to survive, and above all that these conditions give them structural survival assurances. We do not want there to be just a little breath, we want this intervention that these bills, if approved, allow them to generate, can ensure the effective continuity in operation of companies and that this once again translates into more employment, more growth, more investment in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u58	Mrs. Members, we have thus concluded the agenda item one with the joint debate, in general, of the proposals of lein. 83 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ), 84 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), 85 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), 86 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and 87 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and draft law No 429 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PCP ). We move on to point two, with the joint discussion, in general, of the proposals of lein. 88 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Partially transposes Directive 2014 / 91 / EU as regards the functions of depositaries, remuneration policies and sanctions, and 74 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Regulates credit recovery funds. To submit the bills, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u59	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: The legislative proposals that we are presenting today in this debate are another example of the priority that the current government attaches to strengthening Portuguese confidence in the financial system. Portuguese people are increasingly confident in the recovery of the economy, in the growth of employment and in the increase in their well-being. This is sustained and lasting progress, and the Portuguese understand that. Savings play a central role in any modern market economy and the confidence of economic operators in the financial system is essential for their savings decisions. It does not save itself in a financial system in which it does not believe in preserving value for the future. in this framework, it is essential to adopt measures that prevent so many families from seeing their savings again fade away one day at a time. Cases such as the failure of BPP or the resolution of BES and BANIF cannot be repeated. The priority of « ensuring effective market regulation », expressed in the Government Programme, is essential for financial stability, for balanced, healthy and sustainable economic growth that results in the creation of quality employment and a lasting increase in well-being. It is in this sense that today we are presenting the bill on collective investment agencies, investment funds. This proposal, which transposes a Community directive, has given particular importance to the protection of those who apply their savings in the productive sector of the economy through investment funds. by strengthening the security and protection of savers, we are boosting the functioning of the Portuguese capital market in the financing of productive investment and increasing the autonomy of financing the Portuguese economy. A proper regulation, which protects the rights of those who apply their savings in investment funds, is an essential contribution that the State makes to the functioning of the economy, which stimulates economic growth and quality employment. The law that we present to this House acts at three levels: the remuneration of managers, the obligations of depositaries and the sanctioning regime. Firstly, it is essential to prevent aggressive, perverse and inadequate remuneration policies from causing investment fund managers to take on excessive risks. Taking risks that often do not control and put at risk the savings of so many savers in exchange for crying prizes for less scrupulous managers. But this law also intensifies the requirements and obligations of depositors of investment funds. This law is responsible for depositary institutions in the functions and responsibilities of controlling and safeguarding the savings of savers, placing a significant emphasis on the prevention of conflicts of interest between the investment fund, the company that manages it and the depositary entity. Finally, the law we present has established a sanctioning regime dissuasive of unscrupulous behaviors, adopting sanctions proportional to the seriousness and consequences of the acts performed. This is a law that protects those who save and returns trust to those who apply their savings in investment funds. It is a law that stimulates the capital market and its role in the financing of investment and in the internationalisation of companies. It is a law that contributes to the diversification of the financing of companies, so relevant at a time when access to finance is still a relevant limitation for so many and so many companies. A second bill that we present regulates credit recovery funds and aims to protect customers and strengthen confidence in the financial system. It is essential to ensure the defence of unskilled investors, who are damaged by the manifest failure of the mechanisms to control the marketing and disclosure of information, by inducing wrong investment decisions on the basis of adulterated information. The law we present is the Government's response to the work done in this House, in particular with regard to the recommendations arising from the report of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry to the resolution of the Banco Espírito Santo, which was unanimously approved in this House. The government thus responds to the imperative to compensate investors not qualified for losses suffered in financial instruments sold abusively and in the face of the non-operence of the mechanisms of brakes and counterweights, public and private, that it was the recent case of the sale of commercial role of companies of the Espírito Santo Group to Banco Espírito Santo counters. The loss mitigation mechanism suffered by unskilled investors that we present has an innovative charities. the State has the crucial role to play in ensuring mechanisms that enable the defense of the legitimate interests of families that suddenly have been deprived of the savings of life. The proposed law we present defines the organisation and operation of credit recovery funds. This new type of funds promotes the creation of autonomous heritages with a special status. These heritages enjoy a set of benefits assured by the State that promote an effective and prompt recovery of value to those who have been deceived. The State grants a set of benefits and guarantees that allow the injured, by associating themselves, to sue those who have deliberately harmed them and must therefore respond criminally and financially to repair the damage and damage they have caused. This is a decisive step so that abusive practices of aggressive marketing of financial instruments can be effectively repaired. The diploma we present gives the State the role of catalyst for the process, ensuring access to financial resources and a reduction in the costs of litigation for the weakest part of these contracts: the injured. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u60	Mr Secretary of State, two Members were registered to request clarification, so I asked you how you wanted to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u61	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u62	So, the first request for clarification is from Mr Carlos Silva, so I give you the floor immediately.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members, the treatment of this matter has been marked by the deepest opacity. We continue without knowing the terms of the agreement reached by Mr. Prime Minister's friend with the injured BES, that friend for all occasions. The Minister of Finance, when asked about the document of the agreement with the injured, never replied. And, I note, Mr Secretary of State, which was a number of legislative questions, there were several parliamentary debates. Of course, without knowing the agreement, we do not know whether the proposal here brings materiality to us today. Well, Mr Secretary of State, today you have a good opportunity to put an end to this desperate lack of transparency. Despite the little we know, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that once again the Government generates an archdylous solution that ends up putting Portuguese against Portuguese. Don't come to the left saying that we are against a solution to solve the problem of the injured. We're not! We defend the injured; however, we are concerned about the solution in which, once again, it is the money of all Portuguese who is used to pay the right of some. It is not the Portuguese without exception that, with their taxes, they have to bear the ruinous investments that some bank customers have been keen to make. in this situation someone got his money. So, these, aren't they called to answer? Oh, my God! We see a lot of indignation about those who are left without their investments—it is understandable—but against those who are left with their savings, we do not see any indignation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u64	This solution, in a socialist way, is that someone has to pay, you don't know when or how much. It's another remedy for management, at the expense of the Portuguese. Thus, the management, through the Prime Minister's friend, has arranged a solution that is summarized in the following: to banish vigarists who sold snake bath to bank customers;... [[All right!]] [[Protests of PS, BE and PCP, hitting hands on the sides of the benches.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u65	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, please... You would like to continue, Mr. Carlos Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u66	Mr. President, I would like to thank you for a short time, as long as I was interrupted. [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u67	Derecia was a "red card"!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u68	Mr. Carlos Silva, please continue. [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, create conditions for the honourable Member to continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u69	Mr. President, isn't he saying anything? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u70	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the evaluation of the actions is with whom they practice. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u71	I don't do that kind of evaluation, it's not my role. Mr. Deputies, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u72	I ask the Socialist Party if Dr. Ricardo Salgado wasn't a vigarist. [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u73	And who has deceived you? Oh, my God! At the time, he had a lot of respect!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u74	Mr. Deputies, please continue. [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, please... [[Pause.]] Mr. Carlos Santos Silva, please proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u75	I will once again refer to the terms of this agreement: iliba vigaristas who sold cobra bath to bank customers;... [[PSD applause.]] [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] ... confuses police with thieves, when the police accused themselves of assaulting the castle, passing the thief at the intervals of the rain;... [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] ... coverage of the left of Parliament to vigards and irresponsibilities;... [[Protests of PS, BE and PCP, hitting hands on the sides of the benches.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u76	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen... Mr. Carlos Silva, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u77	... creation of new injuries, which are all the Portuguese contributors; and Antonio Costa, the « Prime Minister Wonder» laughing in Alice Country. This is the result of this negotiation. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, I would like to ask the honourable Members whether they intend to finally inform the Members of the alleged agreement concluded with the representatives of customers affected by the trade role of BES ; whether this agreement will or will not involve a guarantee from the State — and to state the conditions, terms, costs and true exclusions ; whether there is further confirmation that there are exclusions for several injured customers who have subscribed GS products under conditions similar to those covered by the agreement, in particular migrants residing in Venezuela, South Africa, France, and Switzerland. [[PSD applause.]] I also ask, Mr Secretary of State, whether the injured customers living in Portugal who have subscribed to this trade role in BES sales channels in Portugal, but whose operations have been formalised in international jurisdictions, are or are not covered and also whether New Bank workers are expressly excluded from protection and waiver in respect of judicial actions and, as regards supervisors and the Resolution Fund, their workers are not excluded. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u78	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Miguel Tiago, from the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, really, in this House of the Republic, we see a little bit. We just heard a Member who supported and supported the previous government, PSD / CDS, which nationalized the damage of banking fraud promoted by the Holy Spirit...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u80	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u81	... and let the « vigarista» flee with the product of the vigarice,... [[PCP, Os Verdes and PS Members applauded.]] ...come now bring the matter to Parliament. I ask for some tolerance, Mr President, as far as time is concerned, because I have even been shocked by this intervention by the PPD. [[PSD protests.]] Mr. Secretary of State, I have signed up to request clarifications, but before that, I wanted to address to those present this debate in the galleries of the Assembly of the Republic, to those who were directly injured by banking entities or bank administrators, a word of greeting for commitment to seeking a solution and a word of understanding by the revolt of those who, in many cases, lost savings from a whole life, because they focused them on products often imposed by the Bank itself with the only means of obtaining money at the expense of customers. [[PCP, P.S. and Greens applauded.]] Mr Secretary of State, the question that the CFP Parliamentary Group has to make on the proposal for a law that the Government submits, and I refer in particular to Bill No 74 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) defining the characteristics of the credit recovery funds — has to do with a substantive option as to how the problems that may arise in the financial system are solved, in particular through the placing of products, mainly as a commercial role. It is either that there is the possibility to act on a public guarantee, having been offset by this possibility, or then we are only assuming that it is the State that pays, if it is not achieved, through litigation and the judicial system, to meet the needs to fill the debts incurred. And this is a very strange message about the past, because the State assumes that it is available to pay but was not available for, as the PCP has always proposed, to go look for the heritage, the offshore accounts, the inheritances, the Holy Spirit Health and, with these riches, to be able to pay the debts that the owners of these companies contracted with money that was not theirs. So, Mr Secretary of State, the question that arises is this: is the Government and the Socialist Party available or not to enable the activation of a State guarantee to satisfy debts incurred with customers of the banks that have been deceived to be dependent on the capacity of the nationalized State, to integrate into its heritage the wealth, assets, companies that may still be called upon to pay for these debts? In other words, are they available so that those companies, offshore accounts, the real estate that was acquired, in this case, by the Holy Spirit, can come to be nationalized and the State, so, yes, can activate a guarantee, being resorbed by the nationalization that has just taken place? Oh, my God! The other option is to be called upon to pay and not to be compensated for this loss, thus assuming the risks of a business. That is, bankers deceive customers, customers are deceived by bankers, the state pays the damage—is the paradise of financial capitalism! [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u82	You now have the floor to answer, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u83	Mr President, I must say that I was, in fact, very perplexed by Mr Silva's speech. The damage we are talking about is not a group of greedy people who just bought certain types of assets at the bank counters simply because they had a higher income. We are talking about a group of people who bought a set of assets that were sold in a misleading way, with information that was wrong, information, this, which had been validated by a set of entities, some of them public. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Public entities, these, who have not performed their duties and who are today being prosecuted by the injured, and are being well demanded. They are being demanded because, if they have not performed their duties, those who have been injured have the right to demand compensation and to be rewarded for the failures of the operation of brake and counterweight mechanisms. So when it's said that we're going to benefit some of what's a cost to everyone... It is that a cost for all Portuguese people already exists because, when the State, in court, is found guilty and should eventually come to compensate the injured, that compensation will be paid for all. What the government is doing here is solving a problem that has been left and is reaching an agreement that allows a number of people who have been deceived who, on the one hand, the State assumes its responsibilities and, on the other hand, that there is a cost sharing between the State and the injured and that also allows these injured, organized, to ask those who have effectively deceived them and who go after what you have identified as criminals. But criminals is something to be decided, it is something that, in a rule of law, is not identified by this House, it is not decided by this House, it is decided in the courts. That is the rule of law. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What the State does, through this diploma, is no agreement with the injured BES. What the State does is to present a mechanism, a recovery fund, which enables all those who have been or have been injured in the future to associate themselves and have access to a set of guarantees and a set of benefits in terms of legal costs that allow them, in an organized way and less costly for those who are the weakest part, to demand judicial and criminally those who have read them, questioning the savings of so many years of savings. with regard to workers and those who are or are not free, what is done in this proposal and what will exist is the possibility to sue all those who have been guilty in some way — and guilty in other words painfully —, that is, those who have, sadly, acted in order to harm these people. These, yes, will be sued in court and will be sued in order to answer judicially and criminally. There are no people here who are exempt or have immunity from this matter. with regard to the issue raised by Mr Tiago and the possibility of activating a public guarantee in which the State will pay what has taken place and which has resulted from the actions of the bankers, it is true. It is true that, for some time now, the State has been paying for what has resulted from the painful action and even from the criminal action of some bankers. But we must also not forget that the State is a party and that the State has also failed; the State institutions responsible for supervising and regulating markets have also failed. That is why the State has to have, and must have a role here. The State must assume its responsibilities, its failures, and contribute to a solution and to maintain the confidence of investors in the markets, because the State will not allow such issues and attitudes to be repeated again, at least in what can be anticipated, predictable and eliminated by this legislation. It is in this sense that we present this proposal. It is a balanced proposal, it is a proposal that allows us to share the risk between the State, the injured and, in some way, to demand the responsibility of those who read them. We therefore put forward a proposal that contributes to financial stability. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u84	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by congratulating the many people who are attending our debate today, particularly those who are injured. What the CDS has always defended in this area — was, and is, a very difficult objective — is that a solution can be reached that is acceptable for everyone: for the injured, for BES, for the New Bank and for the two regulators — CMVM (Commission on the Real Estate Market) and Banco de Portugal — which, many times, and unfortunately, during this period have walked from one side to another, each of them in a position without reaching an agreement. In order to reach an agreement, everyone must give in, and I must also say, in this Parliament, that we know what this agreement is, so that we can vote knowingly.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u86	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u87	I would also say, with regard to what has already been said, that we will not collaborate in a whitening of those who have actually deceived these people. [[All right!]] [[Protests from PCP MP Miguel Tiago.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u88	That there is no idea that the fact that this is a police case and a case of justice will be forgotten. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u89	That does not pass also the idea that these goods have all fled abroad and that many are not arrested in Portugal. That also does not pass the idea that there are no defendants and that we, respecting the principle of the separation of powers, do not expect and do not demand that justice work. It would be very bad for Parliament to give way to this debate or pretend that this case is not, in fact, a police case and a case of justice. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u90	Mr. Secretary of State, going directly to what we are discussing, I would also like to say the following: it is true that what we are discussing today is a credit recovery fund, but it is no less true that it aims to solve the problem of certain people and certain situations. It will not, of course, tell me that, from now on, anyone who has been a victim of fraud, whether banking or otherwise, will have access to a State-guarantee recovery fund. So it's important to understand what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u91	So you better explain!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u92	And there are very specific questions that, I think, should be defined by law to know what we are doing. First: who acquires, through this solution to be voted on, the right to reduce losses, with the approval of the State? It is because if we are, in some cases, talking about damage to the commercial role, it is no less true that there are other types of injuries. What, for example, will we say to the bondholders — and the bank itself — who, on the basis of a resolution from the Banco de Portugal that was said to be only for qualified investors, are, after all, unqualified investors who have been completely injured and in some cases only imagine titles that have been traded after the resolution? It is essential for them to find a solution, as it is also essential to understand how the situation of immigrants remains, as is the situation, for example, of the damage of BANIF and in which molds it is whether or not it is equal to that and also what is the treatment of fair justice among the so-called "damaged commercial role". It is very important to realize, for example, whether each person, each contributor, with a certain value will correspond to the same loss or whether the loss has to do with the formal distribution of the heritage that it has in units of participation, which, I think, is not acceptable, from the point of view of fair justice. At each value that each person, each contributor, has to correspond to a similar loss. Finally — but very important too — Parliament is not the House of blank checks. What is envisaged is a guarantee from the State and it is important that what is approved here should say how much is that guarantee and how much it can materialize. That is, I put things in a very simple way: how much will this cost each Portuguese and what impact will it have on public finances? Without this being written, black in the white, it is very difficult, however we want, to find a workable solution. It will not be the CDS stopping this workable solution, but it will not be the CDS passing blank checks either. That is not what is expected, nor is that what is possible, I believe, of each of us. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u93	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr. João Galamba, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I cannot fail to reply to Mr Carlos Silva saying that it does not seem to me that, given the problem we have in hand and the background of this case, in which all the parties unanimously voted in the Committee of Inquiry to BES a recommendation to find mechanisms to solve and reduce the losses of the injured, which the injured here today deserve their intervention. And I don't think your party deserves to have done that either, because your party didn't have that attitude in the Committee of Inquiry either. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It has been disproposed, out of tone and, indeed, if you think a little about what you said, you yourself will see that it makes no sense. We don't create confusions where they don't exist. No one here, nor the Socialist Party, nor any Member of any other party, nor the Government, certainly, has ruled out whoever it is, Mr. All legal mechanisms remain in force and people will be prosecuted.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u95	Let's see!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u96	And there is no action, no project or initiative of the government or of these parties that has illegalized whoever it is. It was good for you to recognize this, because the last thing we need in such processes is to create confusion where it does not exist, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If I may, the Socialist Party has always defended Ricardo Salgado's immediate exoneration and departure at the end of 2013. There were entities that chose to keep Ricardo Salgado in front of the BES and that assigned him the mission of separating... the so-called "ring-fencing". It was certainly not the Socialist Party or this government that did so, and Mr President, it is wrong to insinuate you that the opposite has happened. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Those who are injured by BES deserve to take seriously what we have said about them. The thousands of Portuguese who, for various reasons, but also because of the failure of the State, have lost their savings deserve and have the right to be treated with decency and to give them answers to their problems. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is also what your party recommended, because it unanimously voted on the report of the Committee of Inquiry. This is also what this government has done: it has found a pending problem and has sought to find a balanced solution—which does not excuse anyone, but is balanced and also responsible to the State—for the thousands of Portuguese who, without having any responsibility, have invested and bought products without knowing what they were buying, also because of the State. We owe these people an answer and that is what this bill, which we are discussing today, allows. This bill is not the agreement with the injured, it is the legal solution that makes any agreement with the injured possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u97	Do you know the deal? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u98	I believe that you will also recognise that an agreement with the injured, a solution for the injured is necessary. As for the existence of the guarantee, we must say the following: we are not creating new liabilities for the State. That would only be true if the State had not been involved in this issue from the outset. The State has thousands of actions against it and it was Mr. Deputies, his party and all the Members who participated in the BES Committee who admitted that when they recognized that supervision failed. It is therefore because we have to be consistent with the things we say in the committees of inquiry and with the recommendations we make here today that we are discussing this proposal. And the people who are here deserve more than your speech, Mr. So let's look at the solution. When it is said that the guarantee is a problem because we are paying something private, no, we are just recognizing, codifying and trying to give an answer to a responsibility that already exists. Mr President, you can be sure that what your party and other parties have said in the Committee of Inquiry is of legal significance. When we all recognize that the State has failed and when we all recognize that the State has to give an answer, then the State has to give an answer, Mr. [[Protests by PSD Members Carlos Santos Silva and Carlos Abreu Amorim.]] And this solution is balanced. We must not forget that all the damage done by the BES who adhered to this solution is without any action against the State. Therefore, the State does not limit itself to paying, or affording, or guaranteeing. The State also finds here a solution that not only benefits the injured but also benefits the State itself. Mr President, to cease an infinity of actions against the Banco de Portugal, against the CMVM, which are public entities by which taxpayers are ultimately responsible, find a solution in which the State, because this exists, gives a guarantee to enable a solution, it is not to pass checks blank, nor is to pay for the mistakes of others, it is to assume our responsibilities and give a full answer, Mr. [[Protests by PSD MP Carlos Santos Silva.]] And that's what we're doing today. The question I address to Mr. Secretary of State is about the defined criterion and the damage that may be made to this fund. What is the fundamental criterion? Is it not true that the fundamental criterion is the identification of State failures? That's why and that's all. So we can't talk about anyone who lost money in the bank a or bank b. in this case, they are specific people, with concrete problems, in which the State is involved and believes that the guarantee of the State is not a blank check, nor is it to pay to some without paying others, is, yes, a way to solve not only the problem of the people who are here and of the thousands injured of the BES, but also their own problem. [[Protests by PSD Member Carlos Santos Silva and the CDS-PP Member Cecilia Meireles.]] That is what the government has done. That is what you have put forward and that is what we are discussing here.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u99	Mr Secretary of State, Mr João Galamba, at the end of his speech, asked him a question. On the question of organization of work, I would like to ask you whether we can leave the answer to your two final minutes. Do you agree, Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u100	Of course.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u101	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing two bills today, one that regulates investment funds, another that regulates a credit recovery regime that will respond to the damage caused by BES. I would like to start with the first, that of the investment funds, and to say that we disagree with the explanatory statement when it is said that the recent situations of the financial system have negatively affected this market, in particular that of the investment funds. We understand that it only changed its perception on the market who had a wrong idea about that market, i.e. who was convinced that the structured product market was a risk-free market and when it contracted a structured product it was actually contracting a deposit. This problem of perception, which is a problem that remains in the Portuguese financial system, will not change with Bill No 88/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) which regulates the investment funds, although it is well intended and has improvements, which we accompany. But it was necessary, and we kept that idea, going a lot further. It was necessary to prevent unskilled investors and clearly have no capacity to contract certain types of products. It was necessary to assess this possibility and prevent banks from selling these products. The Left Block has presented a number of proposals that go in this direction. The most important ones—we find—which would solve the root problem were systematically rejected here in the Assembly of the Republic. There is another disagreement, underlying this proposal, which is the idea that, with the right regulation, liberalisation, financial integration and the development of financial markets is in itself the desirable result that promotes economic growth and financial stability. What the last 40 years have proved is that the financing of the economy has only brought us more unstable, weaker, less resilient economies with secular problems of economic growth, lack of productive investment, inequality, injustice and also loss of value and labour income and distribution of income. These effects of fragility of the financial system are inherent in its functioning and have different effects in different countries, according to its organization. In Portugal it's the bank that prevails, it's the boss. It's always been! And so it was in the bank that this fragility became more felt. The fraud that was the reflection of BES is also the reflection of this fragility. Fraud is not the exception of the financial system, fraud is one of the characteristics of the functioning of the financial system, and BES has shown us that. BES is a maximum example of this fragility which is endemic, which is endogenous to the system's own functioning. Because it is such a blatant example of the integration between fraud and the functioning of the financial system, the question of BES raises questions that are difficult to resolve. The first question we have to answer is: how do we deal with the most direct victims of this fraud, which are the damage of BES and which, I take advantage of, to greet? On the other hand, how do we solve this problem, but prevent us from creating a perverse incentive that is the idea that the State can always guarantee private losses? These are difficult questions, but I think it must be taken into account its specificity and the specificity of this case. We are talking about unskilled investors, in which there has been evidence that the sale has been fraudulent. We are also talking about serious institutional failures, in which the Banco de Portugal did not know how to respond or gave a wrong answer, when it could not have done so, when the New Bank, already under public height, gave a wrong answer and created expectations that it should never have created and therefore failed these people at a time when they needed the public institutions most and that the State was a guarantor of this stability. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, whoever has met these injured people and who has seen their despair knows that they are not great investors and knows that they are people who have lost everything. Only people who have lost everything is that remain in this state of despair and manifests itself in this way. It is necessary to see these people to understand this and to respect the personal dramas of people who have lost everything, the savings of a lifetime. Therefore, Mr President, to justice what is justice! Who actively participated in an inquiry committee, as the PSD also participated, and knows that this commission contributed to Ricardo Salgado being brought to justice, cannot have the courage to come here saying that someone wants to isolate him! No one, in this Assembly of the Republic, wants to illibar Ricardo Salgado, much less, the Block of the Left! [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] Repeat : much less the Left Block! So we don't accept the charges they make us. Mr President, it is true that we say 'justice what is justice', but we also say 'what is the Assembly of the Republic'. Now the honourable Member voted a resolution saying that a solution had to be found for the damage caused by BES. The Left Block has also voted for it, takes this commitment and will not let these people get hurt or without a solution!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u103	We want to know what that solution is!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u104	There are deficiencies in this solution. That's right, sir. There is a public guarantee, but this guarantee should be of the financial system, and there are problems of equality with regard to migrants and their access to this solution. It must be understood whether this solution is entirely designed — the question has already been referred to — or by subscription, despite the total amount being the same, but with different subscriptions. Not being this perfect solution and having some shortcomings, it was the possible agreement and the position of the Left Block is that it will not be by our will or our initiative that these people will once again see their expectations destroyed or postponed. So, as far as it depends on the Left Block, these people are entitled to a solution and they are going to have it. Having weaknesses or problems, we certainly want to solve the problems, but this was the possible agreement. These people have waited too long. Therefore, on the part of the Block, what I can say is that there is a will for the process and the answer to be speedy and for the solution to exist. But we do so with the same will that we have to change the rules of the financial system so that we will never, I repeat, ever again, have to deal with a situation like this and not have to deal with the dramas of these people who have lost their savings in the hands of a completely uncontrolled financial system. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u105	Mrs Mariana Mortágua, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira wants to ask you a question. As it only has 10 seconds, the Bureau will have some tolerance to be able to give its answer. You have the floor then, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, but I would ask you to pay attention to the fact that you have very little time to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u106	Mr President, that will be enough for the question I will ask you. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, allow me to quote two passages from an interview she gave to the Economic Journal dated 13 January 2017. The honourable Member said: 'There are three possible banks: public, national and foreign private (...)'. He also said that (...) the State should not guarantee private business. Either it is a private initiative or it is not. A private initiative at the expense of the state is avian capitalism, which is what we have had. It is the idea that the State does not get involved in business, when the State is always protecting private businesses with public money(...) ». in this context, Mrs Deputy, a legal framework such as that proposed by your Government, thereby authorizing that the past or future charges with any damage to any private bank, and not only the BES/GES, be borne with taxpayers' money, is it? What is it, Mrs. Member? It will be a form of avian capitalism, theorized by V.E. but to which it says it opposes. The creation of funds for the recovery of appropriations, such as the one proposed by your Government, considering the possibility of granting a guarantee by the State or the direct assumption of payments by the State, is what, Mr. Deputy, if not a form of avian capitalism, theorized by you, but to which do you object? in this context, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, or Mrs Deputy and the Left Block assume that they are against this bill because it constitutes a form of avian capitalism, or, as usual, the consistency of the Block lies in the block, not in the Left Block, but in a block of notes! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u107	Mrs Mariana Mortágua, you have the word to answer with some restraint, temporary, you understand. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u108	I hope so, Mr. President. A rotating door where we have banks, such as BPN, which go to bankruptcy, full of members of political parties such as PSD, is avian capitalism. Energy yields that have passed through various governments, including those of the PSD, is avian capitalism. [[Protests by PSD Deputies Angela Guerra and Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] Banks saved from state money is avian capitalism. Public-private partnerships maintained and also negotiated by the PSD are avian capitalism. [[Protests by PSD MP Angel War.]] Save and give an answer to small savers who have lost their lives in the face of the fraud of a gentleman called Ricardo Salgado, to whom everyone beats continence, including in his party, is not avian capitalism, it is the state's decency to give a reply to who most needs it! [[PSD protests.]] See only, Mr. Member, this time they are not the big ones, they are the small ones who are looking for an answer and the state has been able to find! Is it perfect? It's not, of course. But don't confuse the state's decency with avian capitalism, because that capitalism is what we've been fighting over the past few years.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u109	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u110	on the contrary, the honourable Member and his party have been unable to do anything other than the perpetuation of avian capitalism which has, in fact, brought the crisis to the Portuguese economy. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u111	Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The Government brings here two bills. One seeks to transpose a Directive on the financing of the market in national financial instruments and we have nothing to oppose on this matter. But, let's be clear, the ride, and half the couch, brings us another bill that we've really been discussing.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u113	Soupa? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u114	For a while I didn't even give it to her!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u115	We know, in particular, that this bill is a tailor-made fact for someone about whom we would like to know much more than what we know. On this subject, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be clear: it is necessary to find a solution for the damage caused by BES. We say this today and we say it when we adopt the conclusions of the committee of inquiry. We didn't take a comma from what we said that day. There has to be a solution for the injured. Secondly, we know from the social communication that there is an agreement and we also know that this agreement was concluded by the Prime Minister's friend. But, Mr Secretary of State, like you, the Socialist Party's bench has already shown even disrespect for the functioning of justice, because it assumed that the State will be guilty of the actions that the injured have against the State itself, thus avoiding the clearance of responsibilities — something that we have no fear. If there were oversight failures, they would be identified. If there is any responsibility for these failures, they will be identified.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u116	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u117	But you are already replacing your own justice by saying that the state will be condemned! Therefore, this disrespect that you have for all the institutions also has for Parliament. Mr. Secretary of State, the Rules of Procedure, which are law, says that the Government has 30 days to answer to this House. In December, we asked Mr Prime Minister to send us the agreement that was established and passed not 30 days, but 180 days and that agreement did not come. The reason must be asked: why do you hide the letter of Parliament's and the country's agreement? It is a disrespect for the House of Democracy and that is what raises so many doubts and perplexities, Mr. Secretary of State. And you still can't tell us why you don't make it public! Mr. Secretary of State, we know that there are many incongruences, for what is read in the media. They have already been mentioned here, but here too the explanations have not been given. However, if we thought this bill was meant to be a tailor-made fact, the truth is that it is much more than that, because it simultaneously opens the door to the future saying that all injured, in the future, can benefit from State guarantees. This is the truth, Mr. Secretary of State! in the past, if they have been injured by BANIF, injured by another financial institution or if they have other problems between private businesses tomorrow, they can ask for public guarantees. This is written and you don't hide it. It's a Pandora's box and they're opening the door for all taxpayers to pay for bad business in the future. But with a single safeguard: they want to whiten the behavior of supervisory entities, because—and it's clear! — in order to gain guarantees from the State, any damaged, in the future, must abdicate to ask for responsibilities and that we will never do so. [[PSD applause.]] [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u118	You're the ones who retrained Carlos Costa!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u119	Mr Miguel Tiago of the CFP, for an intervention, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: We have just heard a PSD member say that it is necessary to hold the supervisor accountable if there have been failures. Mr President, in this specific case of the injured, I recall that the supervisor determined the establishment of a provision of EUR 700 million, which would be sufficient to pay the trade role to all the injured. But because your government has been lying and has said that it would be worth EUR 4, EUR 9 billion to solve BES — but, after all, it needed much more — the Banco de Portugal was using this provision to capitalise on the Bank which had no capital needed and consumed the provision that was for these people, or rather, what it should have been for these people.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u121	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u122	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u123	There's a big mistake of the supervisor, a big lie of his government. They're responsible! [[PCP applause.]] The supervisor is responsible and is responsible for the PSD and CDS government, which has been playing and lying, hiding problems and allowing these people who were being punished for being deceived by the bankers to take all the wealth they had stolen from the country. [[PCP applause.]] Mr Duarte Pacheco, the PCP proposed from the very first moment, I would like to remind you that the goods, the heritage of the Holy Spirit and the great shareholders of BES and GES were frozen. He proposed that the Holy Spirit be nationalized, that the beneficiaries of the transfers that read BES and ESI should be identified. But all of this deserved the vote against PS, PSD and CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u124	That last fake is completely false!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u125	This problem we now have has no private counterpart on the part of those who have stolen the money, precisely because these parties did not want to put their hands on them and allowed them to be sprayed and no longer able to be nationalized. There is still wealth, there is still heritage, there will certainly be a lot of money in offshore, because this money has not disappeared; and there is BES Art & Finance, there is the Heritage of Behavior, there is real estate, in Portugal and abroad.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u126	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u127	This heritage is nationalized and yes, the guarantee needed to pay the expenses that BES and its bankers have been making at the expense of the people who are attending the debate in the galleries and many others, because all Portuguese have ended up paying. The damage caused by BES paid more, because they had put money on commercial paper, but all Portuguese, even those who did not account for BES, eventually paid the dismissals of the government, the Banco de Portugal and the bankers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u128	Would you like to finish, Mr. Deputies, please?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u129	Mr President, let me just note the following: on the side of the CFP there is every effort to find a solution, but a solution in which the State does not pass blank checks to safeguard businesses and fraud that have been committed to the bank counters. A solution that holds public guarantees with the capacity of the State to take full possession of the wealth that has been acquired or gathered with stolen money. A solution that, after all, does not pass the wrong message either, Mr. Government members, who do not tell today's bankers that they can fool themselves, who do not tell today's customers that they can be deceived at will because the state will come to pay. Mr President, for the Portuguese Communist Party, capitalism, whether of avian or outdoor breeding, does not serve the interests of Portugal! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u130	For a second speech, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Duarte Pacheco, it is even appropriate not to throw the confusion where it should not exist. The honourable Member says: "Responsive of the supervisor! The Bible says: “He does not know what we are doing. ” What was the party, against the opinion of all the other parties, which remanded the supervisor after identifying its failures? What was it, sir? [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, Mr President, you cannot say phrases that all Portuguese, including Mr, know that it makes no sense. The honourable Member has come here to repeat that the State is involving guarantees in private business. No, sir! The guarantee exists for the simple reason that the State is involved. Therefore, it is a business between privates, where the State played a role and failed in this function. The honourable Member then said: "It is an disrespect for justice because you are admitting that I was going to lose..." Mr President, what are you saying is that when the State is involved in judicial proceedings it cannot agree with the counterpart? Do you necessarily have to take the process to the end, even if you don't think it's in your interest? This is what comes from your words. I repeat what the Socialist Party has just said, Mr President, that this is a solution that brings about the unanimous recommendation of this Parliament. It is a recommendation that seeks to safeguard the capital interests of the State and taxpayers and the guarantee is justified because the state and taxpayers' estate was already involved. contrary to what you have always said, the idea that the resolution had no cost to taxpayers was a myth. She always existed and the judicial actions were there to prove it. What this solution does is to prevent this situation from extending for years and to take years until many of the injured see the money that was theirs. The State does not do more than its obligation and the PSD should also consider that it was its obligation since it voted and participated in the Committee of Inquiry. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u132	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that both those who were known as « the injured people of BES », or all those who were injured by successive crises in banks, who are all Portuguese, would have deserved a discussion that would have been conducted in different terms than we have seen today. In any case, what we have had cannot erupt two fundamental issues. It is not worth being here trying 'to cover the sun with the sieve'. We have the right, but also the duty, to ask the obvious question, which is to know how much this will cost all Portuguese and what is the amount of this guarantee from the State. To pretend, purely and simply, that this does not exist and that it will not cost any money to all taxpayers is to spread the matter. We have not only the right to want to know. It is said that what we are approving is simply a fund, with all honesty, it is to want 'to cover the sun with a sieve', because it is not simply a fund. On the other hand, it seems perfectly clear that some of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, who are doing their duty, know the agreement, so much so that they come here to say that there are no perfect agreements. Of course, there are no perfect agreements, indeed, there are no perfect worlds...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u134	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u135	... and, starting from this assumption, we arrive at much more sensible solutions. I just say the following: we have the right and the duty to want to know what this agreement is and we cannot simply say that the rule is the intervention of the State or that, by judicial proceedings, the result would necessarily be this. It's not true. If it were easy to prove mis-selling and if the judicial results were true we would not be here today. That is not an argument, nor does it seem to me that a satisfactory and desirable agreement should depend on a proper judicial outcome. If we say we want to solve the problem, then we will take it and we will take it to the end and, as I have already said, it will not be the CDS to hinder this solution, but we have the right and the duty to ask.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u136	I ask you to conclude, Madam Member, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u137	Of course, Mr. President. in the specific case of bondholders there is a direct intervention of the regulator put them out of a perimeter, as qualified investors, when they are unqualified investors. The solution may not be the same, but there will be some solution. I conclude by concluding that I did not have time to give my opinion on the other diploma which, being connected, is not on the same subject and, unfortunately, the government has also forgotten to send here the opinions and to legislate this is not easy and it is not liable to do so. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u138	To close the debate, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Finance, Ricardo Mourinho Félix.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Starting with the issue of the agreement and whether it is public or not, I would like to tell you that if you go to the website of the CMVM (Mobiliary Market Committee) the agreement is there! So, if you guys are. Ladies and gentlemen don't know the deal is because they haven't been looking for it. The agreement is public, it's on the CMVM website, I think it's also on the website of the BES Commercial Paper Association. [[PSD protests.]] On the role that the State plays in this recovery fund, I must say that, by providing a guarantee, the role of the State is not to inject public money. by giving the guarantee, the State will ensure that the Association constitutes the fund and that this fund enables to anticipate payments to the injured, so that they can have access to what, otherwise, will take an extended set of years to dispute in justice. That's what's gonna happen. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u140	And given the recovery that exists, it is not expected that the State will have costs. The State shall recover the value of the security in full provided that the security is given for a sufficiently prudent value as regards the recovery that the injured persons make of their applications. That is the principle that has to be followed and is not a principle of making any lease out of what is at stake here. With regard to the bill, of both: either it is abstract or it is a custom-made fact, you decide. It's no custom. The proposal under discussion was made for everyone within the scope of its application as defined in Article 2. the, can access the recovery fund. Therefore, it is very clear who can access and all those who are in these conditions — whether they are injured by BES, GES or whatever — can access a recovery fund, provided they meet the criteria set out in this bill. The proposal is general, it is abstract, it is not a measure of fact, but it allows to respond to a concrete problem that is the sale of the commercial role of GES to the BES counters, which has damaged a number of people, who are in the galleries and who deserve our respect. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Carlos Santos Silva, PSD and CDS-PP Member Cecilia Meireles.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u141	I ask you to conclude, Mr Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u142	Of course, Mr. President. Finally, speaking also of the other diploma, which concerns investment funds, let me say that in modern economies, investment funds are a useful way to finance companies and allow them to diversify the base. If what we complained about for many years was the excessive banking of the economy, the excessive financing through the bank, which led to the concentration of risk, of course these funds are a way of diversifying this risk and deconcentrating. It is essential to ensure that those who access these funds know what they are doing, have the conditions to assess them and to make conscious decisions. We will therefore defend and defend, within the framework of legislation to be presented to this House, in particular the DMIF ( Financial Instrument Markets Directive ), that criteria are tightened and that only those who have sufficient knowledge can join these funds. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u143	We have reached the end of the discussion of this point on our agenda today. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to the next point, I would ask Mr Emília Santos to make an announcement of the file he has entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, you have entered the Bureau and Mr President has accepted Parliamentary opinion No 38/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 49 / 2017 of 24 May establishing the single contact point for international police cooperation ( CFP ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u145	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now going to start the vote on the Rules of Procedure. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 199 presences, to which 7 are added, signalled to the Bureau, of Deputies Duarte Pacheco and Teresa Leal Coelho, of the PSD, André Pinotes Batista and Carlos César, of the PS, João Rebelo, of the CDS-PP, and Antonio Filipe and Miguel Tiago, of the PCP, which makes 206 Members present, so we have quorum for deliberation. Let us then begin the voting, beginning with vote No 342 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — In spite of the death of Chancellor Helmut Kohl ( PSD ), which will be read by Mr Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u146	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The news of the death of the former German Chancellor Helmut Kohl, on June 16, at the age of 87, calls us to recall the greatness of the life of this post-World War II statesman of Europe. Kohl symbolizes the German unit, given its central role in Germany's reunification process after the fall of the Berlin Wall. He was the great master of German reunification, despite all those who wanted to convince him of the inseparability or even of the impossibility of the task. The success of East Germany's integration into the Federal Republic of Germany was anticipated by him, but not by many of his contemporaries inside and outside Germany. Helmut Kohl helped to establish the youth party of Christian democracy and dedicated his political life to the building of representative democracy and the social market economy in Germany in peace with his neighbours and with the world. The German people rewarded him with the greatest political longevity in the history of democratic Germany, with regard to the head of the federal government. It would never waver in its political values, nor was it ever mistaken for the danger and perversion of totalitarianism. In addition to a remarkable German Chancellor, Kohl was also one of the founders of Europe. Together with France, with whom he considerably deepened the ties, with particular symbolism at the meeting of Verdun with the French President of the time, François Mitterrand, Kohl was one of the founders of Europe, with Maastricht and with the euro, but also with the preparation for the accession of the young democracies of Eastern Europe. We could hardly find a deeper legacy. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Helmut Kohl, with respect and admiration for his life and his work. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u147	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP and PAN and votes against the CFP and the Greens.]] We turn to vote No 345/ XIII ( 2. ( a ) — In spite of the death of Helmut Kohl ( CDS-PP ), which will be read by the Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u148	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Helmut Kohl, former German Chancellor and one of the historical leaders of European Christian democracy in the second half of the 20th century died on June 16. Its legacy is closely associated with German reunification and the European integration project. Born in Ludwigshafen in the state of Rhineland-Palatinate in 1930, he soon became an active activist of the Christian Democratic Union ( CDU ). After completing his Ph.D. in Political Science at the University of Heidelberg, he was elected a member of the regional parliament of the reindeer state and in the first half of the 1970s would reach the leadership of the CDU, a post he held for 25 years, 16 of which as a Chancellor of the German Federal Republic. The years that preceded World War II were of intense academic activity for Kohl, and the experience of having lived part of his adolescence in a war that divided Germany into two parts for more than half a century marked indelibly his political course. The defence of peace guided his long political life, which would culminate in German reunification and his country's link to European integration, translated by himself, into the famous formula: 'We want a European Germany and not a German Europe'. Recognized and appreciated by the German people, Helmut Kohl was named « Unit Chancellor », in an allusion to the role he played in the German reunification process. This unity determined and promoted a new configuration of the European order, which included the creation of a common currency, the enlargement to 28 Member States, the consolidation of Europe as the largest regional area of peace, freedom and prosperity in the world and a close and strengthened framework for Atlantic cooperation. Equipped with a solid and pragmatic thought, Helmut Kohl is one of the unmistakable figures of Europe of the 20th century, which leaves a life of firmness dedicated to peace, unity and freedom, which deserves to be remembered and honored by the Assembly of the Republic, which presents its sorrow to the German people. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u149	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP and PAN and votes against the CFP and the Greens.]] The following vote No 343/ XIII ( 2 ) shall be taken: ( a ) — Despite the death of Sergeant-Assist of Transmissions Gil Fernando de Paiva Benido, military of the Army, victim of a terrorist attack in Mali ( National Defence Commission ). The gentlemen. Members of the National Defence Commission have asked me to inform the House that they are not here today because they are visiting the sites affected by fires. I ask the Secretary, Mr Diogo León, to proceed with the reading of this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u150	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last June 18th, in a terrorist attack at a hotel in Bamaco in Mali, the Sergeant-Assistant of Transmissions Gil Fernando de Paiva Benido, military officer of the Army Staff Command. The military integrated the national contingent within the framework of the third mandate of the European Union Mission in Mali ( EUTM ), approved by the Council of the European Union, in March 2016, in order to contribute to the restoration of the military capacity of the Mali Armed Forces, preparing them for the conduct of military operations aimed at restoring the territorial integrity of Mali and reducing the threat posed by terrorist groups — a mission of which 26 European countries are involved. The National Defence Commission received the unfortunate news with dismay and deeply regrets the loss of this Portuguese military who gave life for common security in the context of the European contribution to the global fight against terrorism. Your availability, delivery and sacrifice will not be forgotten. Since this is a moment of suffering, the National Defence Commission expresses, firstly, to the family of the Sergeant-Assist of Transmissions Gil Fernando de Paiva Benido his deepest regret, extended to the Army and the Armed Forces as a whole. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u151	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u152	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u153	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u154	Mr President, it is to inform us that we will present a statement of vote on voting Nos 342 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) and 345 / XIII ( 2. ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u155	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to vote No 351 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — In spite of the death of Luís Miguel Coucier Pizarro Belleza ( PSD ), which will be read by Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u156	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Luís Miguel Coucier Pizarro Belleza died last night in Lisbon at the age of 67, victim of a cardiorespiratory stop. Born in Coimbra in 1950, it was in Lisbon, then ISCEF, which graduated in Economics. Still very young, only 29 years of age, he doctored in Economics, in the United States, in MIT. He was unanimously regarded as one of the best economists in his generation. He lived in Washington, between 1984 and 1987, as responsible for Portugal and Spain in the International Monetary Fund. in a decisive period of our democratic history — the preparation of Portugal's entry into the European Monetary System until accession and integration into economic and monetary union — was an exemplary servant of the public case, first as Minister of Finance, in the XI Constitutional Government, led by then Prime Minister Aníbal Cavaco Silva and then as Governor of the Banco de Portugal, having exercised a significant influence in the process of Portugal's accession to the euro. Professor of Professor of the Faculty of Economics of the New University of Lisbon, he liked to teach and mark generations of economists, who keep from him the memory of a teacher with exceptional qualities. On 9 June 1995 he was decorated with the Great Cross of the Order of Merit and on 28 June 2005 he was decorated with the Great Cross of the Order of the Child D. Henrique. Miguel Beleza was one of the most prominent PSD militants and was a brother of another illustrious social-democrat, Leonor Beleza, former Minister of Health and former Vice-President of the Assembly of the Republic. Far from active political life for several years, he had been present in social media bodies, commenting, invariably arguably and relevant, on important events of the national economy. Man of bright intelligence and living spirit and bite, Miguel Beleza leaves us prematurely. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session on 23 June 2017, expresses its regret at the death of Luís Miguel Coucier Pizarro Beleza and sends the most sympathy to his family, the Social Democratic Party and all those who have become accustomed to recognizing and admiring his personality. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u157	Dr. Leonor Beleza and Dr. Teresa Beleza are in the galleries, among other members of the family, who enjoy greeting, also expressing my deep solidarity and personal sadness. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the votes of regret, we will keep a minute's silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote No 340 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Congratulations on the classification of Castro Verde as the UNESCO Biosphere Reserve ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[On June 14, at UNESCO headquarters in Paris, the International Council for the Coordination of the Human and Biosphere Programme (Man and the Biosphere — MaB) classified Castro Verde as UNESCO Biosphere Reserve. Humanized ecosystem of high natural value, located in the district of Beja, Castro Verde is the 11th Biosphere Reserve and the first south of the Tejo, in Portugal, classified as a territorial area for the protection of natural resources. Over the past decades, the commitment to the preservation of biodiversity and natural, cultural and landscaped values has given Castro Verde a unique and specific diversity, and have allowed to create an identity that is the brand of the municipality. The victory of this candidacy, promoted by the City Hall of Castro Verde, the Association of Farmers of the White Field and the League for the Protection of Nature, came to recognize the form of being and being of this territory, where harmony prevails between the agricultural activity and the conservation of the landscape and nature. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, welcomes the classification of Castro Verde as a UNESCO Biosphere Reserve.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u158	We turn to the vote on vote No 347 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a) — Congratulations on the classification of Castro Verde as the UNESCO Biosphere Reserve (The Greens). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[It is as follows: The candidature of Castro Verde the Biosphere Reserve was approved last day 14 in Paris by the International Council for the Coordination of the Human and Biosphere Programme (Man and the Biosphere—MaB) of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) which aims to classify territorial areas for "the conservation of biodiversity, the improvement of the quality of life of populations and the promotion of sustainable economic development". Castro Verde, with the classification now achieved, becomes the 11th Biosphere Reserve and the first south of the Tejo River, in Portugal, to be registered on the UNESCO World Biosphere Reserve Network. This important classification is the recognition of the work done by Castro Verde, which was able to add efforts and which, together with the League for the Protection of Nature (LPN) and the Association of Farmers of the White Field, promoted and dynamized the candidature. The UNESCO recognition of Castro Verde as a Biosphere Reserve has also confirmed that it is possible to reconcile the conservation of nature, landscape, ecosystem preservation, cultural and social identity and the management of the spatial planning instruments with sustainable economic development, which has resulted in the maintenance of the largest area of the cerealifera of our country, created by centenary practices of an extensive agriculture, which led to the formation of a rich mosaic of habitat, where a community of two hundred species of birds were included, with emphasis on the beet, the sision and the periphery of the towers. Castro Verde has therefore recognized its efforts, which are based above all on a sustainable agro-ecosystem, with all the benefits resulting from this, especially in the fight against desertification and climate change. Because of the importance that the classification of Castro Verde as a Biosphere Reserve represents, not only for the municipality, but also for our country, in particular with regard to preserving nature, preserving ecosystems and sustainable development, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session on 23 June 2017, welcomes the classification of Castro Verde as a UNESCO Biosphere Reserve and welcomes all those involved in its candidacy, in particular the municipality of Castro Verde, the League for the Protection of Nature and the Association of Farmers of the White Field.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u159	Let us now vote on vote No 348 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Congratulations on the classification of Castro Verde as a Biosphere Reserve ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[On 14 June, the UNESCO International Council of the MaB Programme (Man & the Biosphere) decided to assign the distinction of World Biosphere Reserve to Castro Verde. This classification results from the work carried out over 30 years by the City Hall of Castro Verde, the Association of Farmers of the White Field and the League for the Protection of Nature and the candidacy presented by the same entities that it had based, as stated by the municipal chamber, "a humanized ecosystem of high natural value, the result of a continuous work of several decades". The Town Hall of Castro Verde is the 11th place with this classification in Portugal and the first south of the Tejo. This international recognition has come to appreciate the importance of the compatibility of interests in the territories and demonstrates the importance of the occupation of the territories also as a safeguard element of biodiversity. The work, which culminated in this UNESCO recognition, began to be developed from the resistance to the mass planting of eucalyptuses intended to be installed in the cerealiferous steppe of that municipality and from the support to the development of agricultural practices compatible with the preservation of natural resources with particular relevance to biodiversity. The Assembly of the Republic welcomes this decision and welcomes the work carried out by the City Hall of Castro Verde, the Association of Farmers of the White Field and the League for the Protection of Nature and also the populations of the Town Hall of Castro Verde, which thus prestigious its Town Hall, the Alentejo and our Country.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u160	We turn to the vote on vote No 346 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Greetings for World Refugee Day ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[This is the following: The World Refugee Day was marked on June 20. This was another opportunity for us all to remember a reality that affects more and more people all over the world and that has become absolutely dramatic. According to recent UNHCR data there are 22.5 million refugees in the world, with approximately half under 18 years of age. Every minute, on average, 20 people are forced to flee because of conflict or persecution. Europe has been challenged by unique circumstances of escalating conflicts and new wars, responding to the extraordinary influx of refugees who desperately pass through the Mediterranean, in search of survival and a new life, with unimaginable risks. In 2016 alone, more than 4400 refugees lost their lives on this journey, causing what can be considered a humanitarian disaster. We therefore need joint, effective and unprecedented action at European and international level in the search for durable solutions for refugees. There is a need for a renewed global protection commitment for people who run away from conflicts and persecutions, who sell and overthrow the xenophobic and fundamentalist prejudices and all their walls and barriers. Portugal has demonstrated an example of commitment and willingness to welcome, fully affirming its humanist matrix, with cross-sectional support throughout Portuguese society. The latest figures show that our country has been able to promote the integration of 1376 refugees, with the involvement of 92 municipalities throughout the country and covering 10 different nationalities. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, marking the World Refugee Day, reiterates its unconditional commitment to the protection of refugees and the indeclinable defence of human rights, in the name of peace and fraternity among all the peoples of the world.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u161	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u162	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u163	Mr President, it is to inform us that we will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u164	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall vote on the application submitted by the PS, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without a vote for a period of 60 days of the bill No 81 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Defines the objectives, priorities and guidelines for criminal policy for the biennium 2017 - 2019. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The bill thus drops to 1. the Commission. We shall, in general, vote on Bill No 90 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The fourth amendment to the Criminal Code, approved by Decree-Law No 400 / 82 of 23 September, to the fifth amendment to the Code for the Enforcement of Penalties and Privatative Measures of Freedom, approved by Law No 115 / 2009 of 12 October 2009, to the first amendment to the electronic surveillance law, approved by Law No 33 / 2010 of 2 September, and to the second amendment to the Law of the Organisation of the Judicial System, approved by Law No 62 / 2013 of 26 August. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on Bill No 83 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — establishes the status of the company recovery mediator. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 6. the Commission. Mrs. Members were submitted by the PS three applications, two, requesting the discharge of the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works, without a vote for a period of 60 days on the proposals of lein. 84 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the extrajudicial arrangements for the recovery of undertakings and 85 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the legal regime for the conversion of credits into capital, and the other, by applying for the discharge to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without a vote, for a period of 60 days on the proposed law No 86 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amends the legal regime of entry, stay, exit and removal of foreigners from national territory and transposes Directives 2014 / 36 / EU, 2014 / 66 / EU and ( EU) 2016 / 801. Let's vote them. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the general vote on Bill No 87 / XIII ( 2 ). (a) — Amend tax procedures and procedures. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall generally vote on Bill 429 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the regime for the regularisation of undocumented foreign citizens ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We are now voting in general on Bill No 88 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Partially transposes Directive 2014 / 91 / EU as regards the functions of depositaries, remuneration policies and penalties. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall vote on the application submitted by the PS, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization, without a vote for a period of 60 days of the proposed law No 74 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Regulates credit recovery funds. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u165	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u166	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u167	Mr President, to inform you that I will present a statement of vote on the fact that this diploma has not been voted on, basically.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u168	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Mariana Mortagua asks for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u169	For the same purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u170	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 805 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government review the territorial management instruments of the Southwest Alentejan and Costa Vicentina Natural Park, while compatibility the protection of nature and the preservation of natural values with the economic development and well-being of populations ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 890 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government revise the spatial planning instruments relating to the Natural Park of Southwest Alentejo and Costa Vicentina ( PNSACV) in order to make nature protection compatible with population occupation ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 891 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote an information and awareness campaign for the population and the various agents of the Southwest Alentejan and Costa Vicentina Natural Park to safeguard the compatibility of the various economic activities with environmental, landscape and social values ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against the CFP and abstains from BE and the Greens.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 896 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends an extended participation in the process of renewing the Plan for the Management of the Natural Park of Southwest Alentejo and Costa Vicentina to the special programme and the creation of support and incentive mechanisms for the creation of local employment ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against the CFP and abstains from BE and the Greens.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 908 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government resume the planning plan of the Southwest Alentejo and Costa Vicentina Natural Park as an integrated and participating development tool ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 399 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to ensure the stopping of freight trains in the Alentejo, in particular in Évora, New Sales and Marble Area ( Estremoz, Borba and Vila Viçosa ) ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u171	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u172	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u173	Mr President, to announce that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u174	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, with regard to draft resolution No 654 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Combating job insecurity in the Port Metro ( PCP ) system, the PS requested a point vote, and we will therefore vote separately on points 1, 2.1, 2.2 and 2.3. Let us begin by voting on point 1. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] We shall now vote on point 2.1. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 2.2. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP and the Greens, and abstentions against the PS and the NAP.]] Let us vote on point 2.3. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention from the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, also with regard to draft resolution No 654 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), the body of point 2 shall not be voted on. Let us then vote for it. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention from the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u175	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u176	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u177	Mr President, to announce that we will present a statement of vote on this draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u178	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u179	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u180	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u181	Mr President, it is to be announced that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u182	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 685/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government intervene in the replacement of trains in São Marcos da Serra ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u183	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u184	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u185	Mr President, to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u186	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 822 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government publish a report on the assessment of the Portuguese refugee policy ( BE) ( the initial text was replaced at the author's request ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote on the request made by the CFP for a vote by the plenary on proposals for amendments to Article 2 ( 6 ). Article 5 ( and 5 ). the Decree-Law No. 45 / 2016 of 17 August, which adopts a set of complementary rules of the process of transition of teachers of higher education political, regulated by Decree-Law No. 207 / 2009 of 23 August, as amended by Law No. 7 / 2010 of 13 May[ parliamentary assessments n. 22 / XIII ( 2. a ) ( BE) and 24 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PCP ) ]. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Having approved the request, we must, in particular, vote on the amendments tabled by the CFP to Article 2 ( 6 ). Article 5 ( and 5 ). the Decree-Law No 45 / 2016, of 17 August.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u187	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u188	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u189	Mr President, the author is always entitled to submit the proposals in 2 minutes. However, the practice has also been to assign 2 minutes to each parliamentary group so that they can pronounce themselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u190	Therefore, two minutes will be allocated to each parliamentary group, which may or may not be used, as they understand, to decide in the specialty on the proposed amendments submitted by the CFP. For an intervention, Mrs Ana Virginia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I greet the teachers present here, leaving a warm greeting to their persistent struggle, decisive for the approval of these proposals and for the replacement of their rights. With the contribution of the CFP, it was possible to extend the transitional period to obtain the degree of doctor or specialist degree. With the proposal of the CFP, any restrictions on career progression and remuneration were eliminated. With the action of the CFP, the expenditure of the teaching service was approved for the completion of doctoral services, which we want to see fulfilled with the allocation of conditions to the institutions so that they can, without budgetary and staff limitations, dispense their teachers with the achievement of the degree. Whereas it is essential to ensure all the conditions for these teachers to obtain their doctorate, we advocate the proposed amendment to Article 2 ( 6 ). that of the Decree-Law already stated by Mr. President, to remove another fundamental obstacle, the payment of propines, whose exemption was rejected by PS, PSD and CDS. We affirm that teacher training only contributes to improving their professional and personal level, but it is also essential for improving the political institutes where they perform their duties. Another key point of the PCP proposals, which are also rejected by PS, PSD and CDS, is the exclusive commitment regime, which, in addition to financial issues—to be taken very seriously into account for the personal and family stability of teachers—is also of major importance to the institutions. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have before us the possibility of definitely closing a cycle of precariousness and injustice that we cannot waste or the responsibility of not doing so. from the PCP, the fight does not end here. We will continue with the teachers to fight for the end of precariousness in public higher service institutions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u192	Mr. Luís Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since 2009 the Left Block has been fighting for the creation of a mechanism to ensure that political teachers were able to finish their doctorates and then to integrate the teaching career and the frameworks of these institutions. This struggle has been fought for years: in 2010 the government of the time launched this transitional regime and now in 2016 the government also launched a new decree extending this transitional regime because the Left Block presented a draft resolution at the beginning of this legislature, just for that purpose. The fact is that the decree-law that the government presented did not comply with what it had previously announced in a set of issues and left many teachers out of that transitional regime. The parliamentary review requested by the Left Block and the amendments tabled were largely approved, so it was possible: to extend the scope of the law decree, ensuring that all teachers hired or whose contract was being processed on 31 August 2009 were now covered by this process; there was a correction in the categories of career, passing the assistants and paired with assistants to the category of assistant teacher; to include career entry into the categories of assistant teacher or coordinator teacher; to reduce the necessary time of service for public evidence of assessment of competence for 15 years and to extend the possible time frame for them until 31 December 2017; and, finally, to repeal the proposed remuneration restrictions and defended by the Socialist Party in the change of category. These are important and fundamental steps for a teacher's struggle to combat precariousness in political education, and the Left Block will be here in the future, as in the present and in the past, to ensure, regardless of the more or less correct wishes that Minister Manuel Heitor sometimes has in these matters, justice in political higher education. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u194	Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u195	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We shall shortly vote on the final text of the Committee on Education and Science on this diploma, and the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of it. But, now, what we are looking at is two specific amendments tabled by the Portuguese Communist Party, and it is about them that I am going to pronounce myself. The proposed amendment to Article 5 ( 5 ). the aim is to ensure that, the requirement of the person concerned, teachers are hired in exclusive dedication. Now, in the light of the final configuration of the diploma, this proposal is very bad for teachers. After the amendments have been approved, in committee, the normal rules of progression apply, for which binding is exclusively dedicated. Therefore, a standard that obliges teachers to demand what they have right does not make sense, introduces legal uncertainty and makes it uncertain a right already recognised to teachers. That is why we will vote against and do not understand this step taken in committee work. The CFP also submits a proposal for an amendment to Article 2 ( 6 ). the, which aims to ensure the total dispensation of teaching service to those who now benefit from the extension of the deadline to do doctorate. On this matter, I wanted to say that first of all the extension of the transitional regime operated by Decree-Law No 45 / 2016, which extended significantly — until August 2018 — the transitional regime, was already a compensation for some shortcomings in certain minority cases of the application of the transitional regime. But worse than that, the CFP's proposal would also apply to those teachers who, having previously benefited from the dispensation of service, have not taken advantage of it to advance in their doctorateship and could now ask for exemption again, even if it did not lead to any progress in their doctoratery.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u196	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u197	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that, moreover, the total dispensation of teaching services has obvious financial implications, since it involves hiring other teachers not to permanent places but to substitutes. For these reasons, we will vote in favour of the final text, but we will vote against these specific proposals. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u198	Mr Duarte Filipe Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u199	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are faced with a diploma in which, once again, as happened with the pockets, the government announces one thing to the people and then in the proposal it makes another. One hand and take the other. They said to the pocketmen: "Let's give you a contract for life! », but deep down, it was like giving someone a shop in exchange for a rented apartment. That's what happened and in this case it's the same. The government has two sides. [[Protests of PCP Members.]] What the PSD did, together with the PCP, with the Left Block and the CDS, was to give justice and balance to the proposal of the Government and the Socialist Party. It was thanks to the Members of the PSD, the Left Block, the PCP and the CDS who almost seven years ago created the transitional regime, precisely in a socialist government, to give these teachers a chance to complete their doctorate. Once again, seven years have passed, they are again the same parties that implement what the government announces and then does not. Fortunately, the proposal we are going to vote today will give more conditions to the polytechnic teachers, because, when this law was passed, there was a government of the Socialist Party, in the time of Prof. Mariano Gago, who told the teachers: "Make the doctorate. They have a programme here, which is the Protec (Protec Programme to support the advanced training of polytechnic higher education teachers), which will give you conditions and guarantees to be able to do doctorate over time, with support in the tips and with a reduction in the number of hours». They presented this Programme and it lasted only one year; in the following years of the same government they ended this Programme. That is why we are doing justice to these teachers today. If it is to give them a new opportunity to enter the careers and complete the doctorates, unless this is done in conditions and not only more precariously, which is what would happen again with the Government's proposal. This is the confirmation that this government announces one thing, does another and the Socialist Party applauds. this time, the PCP and the Left Block did not shut up — happily! — and neither do we. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u200	Mrs. Members, we are in a position to proceed to the vote, in particular, of the amendments tabled by the CFP, to Decree-Law No 45 / 2016 of 17 August, which adopts a set of complementary rules for the process of transition of polytechnic higher education teachers, regulated by Decree-Law No 207 / 2009 of 31 August, as amended by Law No 7 / 2010 of 13 May[ parliamentary assessments n. 22 / XIII ( 2 ). a ) ( BE) and 24 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PCP ) ]. We shall therefore vote on the proposal for an amendment to Article 2 ( 6 ). the Decree-Law No 45 / 2016, of 17 August. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the proposed amendment to Article 5 ( 5 ). the Decree-Law No 45 / 2016, of 17 August. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The following is the overall final vote of the final text, submitted by the Committee on Education and Science on Decree-Law No 45 / 2016 of 17 August, which adopts a set of complementary rules for the process of transition of polytechnic higher education teachers, regulated by Decree-Law No 207 / 2009 of 31 August, as amended by Law No 7 / 2010 of 13 May[ parliamentary assessments n. 22 / XIII ( 2 ). a ) ( BE) and 24 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PCP ) ]. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u201	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u202	To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u203	Mr President, as we have already told the Bureau, we intend to make an oral vote at the end of the vote on what we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u204	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we shall vote, in a comprehensive final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on the proposal for a law No 63 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the European Criminal Investigation Decision by transposing Directive 2014 / 41 / EU. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We then, in a comprehensive final vote, voted on the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 64 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Regulates the Lophoscopic and photographic judicial identification. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall generally vote on the text of the replacement tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the drafts of lein. 240 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Reposition of limits to the expulsion of foreign nationals from national territory ( Fourth amendment to Law No 23 / 2007 of 4 July approving the legal regime for entry, stay, exit and removal of aliens from national territory ) ( PCP ) and 264 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter to Law No 23 / 2007 of 4 July establishing the legal regime for the entry, stay, departure and removal of foreigners from national territory ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes held in the speciality at the Commission. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We proceeded to the vote, in a comprehensive final vote, of the same replacement text, submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the drafts of lein. 240 and 264 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The general vote on the replacement text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on Bill No 52 / XIII ( 2 ), follows. ( a ) — Establishs the system of balanced representation between women and men in the administrative and supervisory bodies of companies in the public business sector and listed companies in the stock market and draft law No 406 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Promotes gender equality in the composition of State administration bodies ( BE ). [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, BE, The Greens, the PAN and 6 members of the CDS-PP (Ana Rita Bessa, Assunção Cristas, Filipe Anacoreta Correia, Hélder Amaral, Isabel Galliça Neto and Pedro Mota Soares), votes against the PCP and 7 members of the CDS-PP (António Carlos Monteiro, Cecilia Meireles, Filipe Lobo d’Ávila, Ilda Araújo Novo, João Pinho de Almeida, João Rebelo and Telmo Corres) and abstentions of the CDS-PP (Álvaro Castello-Branco, Nuno Magalhães, Patrícia Fonseca and Vânia Dias da Silva).]] [[On your feet, applause from BE, PAN and from PS and CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u205	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u206	To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u207	Mr President, to announce that I shall, on my behalf, present a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u208	Of course, Mr. Deputies. Mr Luís Testa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u209	Mr President, to announce to the House that I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u210	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u211	Mr President, to inform the Bureau that the PCP Parliamentary Group has already submitted a vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u212	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u213	Mr President, to announce to the House that I will present a statement of vote on my behalf.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u214	You have the floor of Mr Vania Dias da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u215	Mr President, to announce that, on my behalf and on behalf of Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco, I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u216	Of course, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs Inês Domingos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u217	Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u218	Of course, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we shall vote in favour of the plenary of the indexary votes held in the speciality in the Commission's office. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the overall final vote of the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the proposal for law No 52 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establishs the system of balanced representation between women and men in the administrative and supervisory bodies of companies in the public business sector and listed companies in the stock market and draft law No 406 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Promotes gender equality in the composition of State administration bodies ( BE ). [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, BE, The Greens, the PAN and 6 members of the CDS-PP (Ana Rita Bessa, Assunção Cristas, Filipe Anacoreta Correia, Hélder Amaral, Isabel Galliça Neto and Pedro Mota Soares), votes against the PCP and 7 members of the CDS-PP (António Carlos Monteiro, Cecilia Meireles, Filipe Lobo d’Ávila, Ilda Araújo Novo, João Pinho de Almeida, João Rebelo and Telmo Corres) and abstentions of the CDS-PP (Álvaro Castello-Branco, Nuno Magalhães, Patrícia Fonseca and Vânia Dias das Silva).]] [[On your feet, applause from BE, PAN and from PS and CDS-PP.]] We shall vote, in a comprehensive final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security, on the proposal for a law No 57 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Sets minimum requirements for the protection of workers against the risks to safety and health to which they are or may be subject due to exposure to electromagnetic fields during work and transposes Directive 2013 / 35 / EU, the European Parliament and the Council of 26 June 2013. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on Bill No. 75 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Excludes the existence of investor members and ensuring the democratity of the functioning of cooperatives by the first amendment of the Cooperative Code, approved by Law No 119 / 2015 of 31 August, ensuring compliance with Article 82. paragraph 4 ( a ) of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 356 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to the Co-operative Code by ensuring effective respect for the cooperative principles of the International Cooperative Alliance ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] We shall generally vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on drafts of lein.o 75 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Excludes the existence of investor members and ensuring the democratity of the functioning of cooperatives by the first amendment of the Cooperative Code approved by Law No 119 / 2015 of 31 August, ensuring compliance with Article 82. paragraph 4 ( a ) of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic ( BE ), and 356 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to the Co-operative Code ensuring effective respect for the cooperative principles of the International Cooperative Alliance ( CFP ) and the proposed Law No 44 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Co-operative Code. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS and the CDS-PP, votes against the CFP and the Greens and abstentions of BE and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote in favour of the plenary of the indexary votes held in the speciality in the Commission's office. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the overall final vote of the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on the drafts of lein.o 75 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Excludes the existence of investor members and ensuring the democratity of the functioning of cooperatives by the first amendment of the Cooperative Code approved by Law No 119 / 2015 of 31 August, ensuring compliance with Article 82. paragraph 4 ( a ) of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic ( BE ), and 356 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to the Co-operative Code ensuring effective respect for the cooperative principles of the International Cooperative Alliance ( CFP ) and the proposed Law No 44 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Co-operative Code. [[The vote was taken and voted on in favour of the PS and PS, votes against the CDS-PP, the CFP and the Greens and abstains from BE and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, we are voting in general on the text of the replacement tabled by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea on the drafts of lein. 162 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves a new law of the baldiums, ensuring its use to the local communities that historically and according to the uses and customs to it are entitled ( BE), 276 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Repeals Law No 68 / 93 of 4 September, returning the buckets to the peoples ( PCP ), 282 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Establishs the bases for the organisation, management and operation of the baldiums ( PS ) and 295 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Revocation of the Baldies Act, Law No 68 / 93 of 4 September ( The Greens ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention from the NAP.]] We shall vote in favour of the plenary of the indexary votes in the speciality held in the Commission's office. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Let us now proceed to the overall final vote of the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea on the drafts of lein. 162 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves a new law of the baldiums, ensuring its use to the local communities that historically and according to the uses and customs to it are entitled ( BE), 276 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Repeals Law No 68 / 93 of 4 September, returning the buckets to the peoples ( PCP ), 282 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Establishs the bases for the organisation, management and operation of the baldiums ( PS ) and 295 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Revocation of the Baldies Act, Law No 68 / 93 of 4 September ( The Greens ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention from the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u219	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u220	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u221	Mr President, we have already given an indication to the Bureau, but I would like to inform you that it will be Mr João Ramos who will proceed to the oral vote on this last vote on the buckets.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u222	Of course, Mr. Member, but first of all, we still have to vote on the opinion of the Ethics Sub-Commission...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u223	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u224	You have the floor, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u225	Mr President, it is to indicate that we will also make an oral statement on the previous vote and that will be produced by Mr Matias.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u226	Mrs. Members, first, we must vote on the opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, and then on the oral statements of the PS, on a previous vote, and on the PCP, PS, BE and the Greens, concerning the baldiums. I call on Mr Duarte Pacheco to read the opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u227	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of Judge 2 of the Local Criminal Court of Loures of the Court of Justice of the Northern Lisboa District — Case No 6890 / 2014 —, the Subcommittee on Ethics decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Susana Amador ( PS ) to intervene in the framework of the reference procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u228	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if there is no objection, we shall vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now initiate the explanations of vote. Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u229	Mr. President and Mr. Members: We voted today the law amending Decree-Law No 45 / 2016 on the so-called "transitional regime in polytechnic higher education", which follows from the revision of the Statute of the Teaching Career in 2009 which introduced the doctorate, or the title of specialist, as a requirement for career entry and therefore created the so-called transitional regime for teachers to meet that requirement. Having not approved all the solutions found, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group voted in favour of the final text for two main reasons. The first reason is to converge in several of the amendments introduced to the transitional regime, with emphasis on the substantial extension of the subjective scope of the diploma, which now covers all teachers who were in the institutions in full-time or exclusive dedication on the date of the entry into force of the original decree, when before only those who had been in the institutions for at least five years had been covered. The second reason for having voted in favour of this result is that it was possible to avoid some serious errors that were proposed. Specifically, the production of a certain number of injustices related to other teachers has been avoided. For example, there has been a avoidance of the Statute of the Teaching Career, with regard to the experimental periods of entry into the career. Overall, we confirm what we said when this parliamentary assessment began: first, the decree-law was a significant step forward in relation to the previous situation, opening an added opportunity for teachers who had not yet benefited from the transitional regime, and, therefore, no parliamentary group, even proposed the cessation of force; second, it was possible to improve the transitional regime, which was done on the basis of the contributions of the only three parties that presented proposals, i.e. the CFP, the EB and the PS. in this improvement we have committed ourselves, in favour of teachers and the qualification of political higher education itself. We therefore vote in favour today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u230	Mr. João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u231	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese right has always been ill-accompanied with Community property. It is a question of ileological prejudice regarding a property that, being a community, is its community based on ancestral uses and customs, always longing to transform it into private property. This was the meaning of the Law of the Baldies of the PSD / CDS in the previous Legislation, approved only with the votes of these parties. The Law, still in force, changed the concept of sharing, extending this condition to those who did not have that right, thus promoting the conflict, simplified the extinction of the buckets, eliminating and requiring judicial decision, limited the autonomy of the shares to decide on their property, promoting business and legal trade. PSD and CDS attacked the buckets to the extent that they never cared about family farming, looking only for the agribusiness and the big owners. Therefore, a new composition of the Assembly of the Republic was obliged to restore the right of the local communities to their baldiums, which was reconquered on 25 April, after their usurpation by the dictatorship. It was essential to strengthen the buckets and the right of shares to their heritage. The baldiums have been throughout the history of the country, and still are, fundamental to promote the fixation of populations. Today, and given the dramas that the country has experienced, of course, the country needs to be inhabited. The baldiums may be an important element in promoting this occupation. The CFP proposal was different from what we voted today. This legislation does not faithfully correspond to the CFP's position on this matter. But today's Baldios Act has had the commitment of the PCP Parliamentary Group and represents a considerable advance in what PSD and CDS had done — an advance on the part of Community property, an advance on the side of local communities, a step in the right direction. The shares are now safer in their right, access and use of their Community property. This was the purpose of the CFP when it presented its proposal. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u232	For a statement of vote on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Joaquim Barreto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u233	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Socialist Party, we welcome the approval of this new Baldios Law and express our appreciation, and our testimony, for the work done by the Members who have made this new law possible. And also for those who, by not agreeing with it, have made their contribution, regardless of the position they took in the discussion and voting of this law. This new Law of the Baldies changes the condition of sharing, giving it more powers, brings a greater identity with the experience of rural communities where there are rocky areas, promoting and valuing its multiple use, particularly by people who most enjoy these forest spaces, the shares, be they shepherds, hunters, beekeepers and others. We hope and hope that, with this approval, if we have a greater use of the baldiums and more and better forest, with direct and indirect benefits for the populations of the interior of Portugal, thus contributing to greater social cohesion and combating the desertification of rural areas. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u234	You have the floor for a vote on behalf of the BE Parliamentary Group, Mr Matias.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u235	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this vote that we have just made a mark of a victory in the struggle of the people of the hills and is a new step forward. In good time the Left Block opened this process with the presentation of a bill something different than it was finally approved and to which others followed. The new law reaffirms and reinforces the Community character of the property of the baldiums in accordance with the Constitution. It removes the threats of privatization and ends with imposed interference, situation permitted by the previous law created by the majority right. On the other hand, the law that we have just approved reaffirms the uses and customs based on the management and experience of the baldiums by the local communities. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the new law defends the incomes of local communities, clarifying the conditions under which they should be managed, aggregated or even their property transferred to the authorities. Today, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are opening a new page with new challenges to the people of the baldiums, based on democratic, transparent and profitable management. The Left Block trusts the people of the stables. They will certainly overcome the difficulties and weaknesses that exist and will overcome the new challenges, because with the law we have just passed they are surely much more defended. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u236	For a statement of vote on behalf of the Green Parliamentary Group, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u237	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as our history has shown us, over time, there have been several attempts to remove the buckets from the Sierraan peoples and to share them. The last known attempt is the one that was led by the PSD / CDS government, which made an amendment to the Baldies Law which went through, in particular, extending the reasons for extinguishing them, exempting them until the judicial decision, adulterating the concept of sharing, passing over centuries of uses and customs, integrating the baldiums into the private heritage of the parish and the municipal chambers, by directly interfering in the internal life of the governing councils and opening up their surrender to the private. This was the work of the previous government in this area, a real attack on the Community ownership and management of the baldiums, allowing them to be divested and privatized, although our Constitution foresees within the sectors owned by the means of production, the Community means of production owned and managed by the local communities. The Greens therefore welcome the fact that the Portuguese, by voting, allow or create the conditions for this House to now be able to return the buckets to the people of Sierra and to the parties and, in a way, also make a new approximation to our constitutional precepts. [[Congrats from the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u238	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus ended the voting period. We re-examine the agenda, with the discussion, in general, of Bill No 89 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Authorizes the Government to regulate the access and exercise of the activity of credit intermediaries and the provision of consulting services in respect of credit contracts by transposing Directive 2014/17 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 February 2014 on credit contracts to consumers for housing buildings. For an intervention to introduce the debate, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u239	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill we present in this Chamber authorizes the Government to regulate the access and exercise of the activity of credit intermediary, allowing the completion of the transposition of the Mortgage Credit Directive. The regulation of the activity of credit intermediaries is essential to ensure consumer protection, as is already the case in other countries of the European Union. Consumers often use the credit intermediary figure to present and advise alternative credit options, either due to lack of time available to pursue the best solutions, or insufficient financial literacy. Credit intermediaries allow the final choice of the consumer to be made in circumstances of greater balance between the consumer and the financial institution granting the credit. The credit intermediary is important to present and advise different options and can be useful even to consumers, especially those with a lower degree of technical and financial preparation. But the existence of this activity in a regulated environment is essential not to leave customers exposed to the risk of dealing with unskilled entities or without the necessary suitability for this purpose. The diploma submitted by the Government shall clearly define the requirements required for the performance of the consultancy and credit intermediary activities and the entity which shall issue the authorisation for the exercise and control the suitability. With this regulation, we will only have a market with registered entities, subject to supervision and with the profile required to advise and work on such matters. We shall ensure that the criteria of confidentiality and exemption are met properly. At the same time and recognizing the vast universe of credit intermediaries operating on the market, three categories of intermediaries are expected to be established: the linked intermediaries, the unrelated ones and the accessory intermediaries. These categories differ between themselves from the relationship that they establish with financial institutions and with consumers and the type of activity they develop. With this diploma, a legal framework is created which ensures the appropriate level of consumer interest protection, regardless of the type of credit contract in question, either a housing credit contract or a consumer credit contract. With this diploma, the State fulfils the function of an entity that regulates the market so that it, left to its free will, does not question again, by unscrupulous agents, for the benefit of few, the trust and savings of so many. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u240	For an intervention, Mrs Hortense Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u241	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are in the presence of a bill requesting legislative authorization from the Assembly of the Republic to regulate credit and consultancy activities in various aspects contained in Directive 2014 / 17 / EU. I stress the sense of increasing consumer protection in terms of credit contracts for housing buildings. We all know the importance of financial activities, in particular in the granting of credit, for economic activity and, in particular, for individuals themselves, in housing. This legislative authorization is duly accompanied by the draft decree, which allows, of course, to have a very concrete idea as to the intentions of the Government as a legislator. It also has perfectly defined the scope and objectives, of which we highlight: the regulation of access and exercise of credit intermediary activity and the provision of consultancy services in relation to the credit contract to be concluded with consumers, activity, as we know, increasingly frequent and urgent regulation, as other countries have already done. But in this financial activity there are equally relevant issues that cannot be overlooked, as we have seen in the case of the bank. This is the assessment in terms of suitability. As regards this issue, this initiative aims to establish a regime for the control of the suitability, knowledge, competence and exemption of natural persons who develop the activity of credit intermediary, but also for legal persons and administrative bodies, and, of course, of natural persons to whom the function of technical responsibility for credit intermediary activity is assigned. This Directive is also known as the Mortgage Credit Directive and aims to ensure that all consumers who hire this type of credit to buy property are properly informed and protected from the risks of non-compliance. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, information to consumers is crucial. In fact, we saw this on the issue of Banif's injuries and also on the issue of BES. We must therefore ensure that we provide better information to consumers and not just more information, because, as we know, this is not synonymous with quality. Information must be understandable to the consumer in general, even to the so-called unqualified consumer. For this, it should be clear that they understand what is the most appropriate product for them. What is perceived is essential for the formation of scenarios with regard to variable interest and foreign currency loans, for example, so that these consumers are alerted to possible changes in interest rates and impacts on their ability to fulfil their repayment obligations as referred to in the Directive. in the background, what is intended to be stopped is unsustainable indebtedness, through stricter rules on the marketing of such services. in granting mortgage credit, as is the case with housing credit, we need to have rules that ensure that the bank client receives the appropriate assistance from those who lend the capital and receives interest. in the background, there is a need for greater control of this activity, in order to avoid problematic situations for consumers. I also highlight an issue which this diploma contains, which is the very assessment of the implementation of it, which we welcome. It is, of course, that after this diploma comes into force, for which it has a deadline, the evaluation of its implementation is planned, which is, of course, a good thing for this draft bill of law, which we hope will actually be implemented within the time limit that is set for the protection of consumers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u242	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Inês Domingos.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u243	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This bill we are discussing today is intended to transpose a European Union Directive on intermediaries and consultants in the credit field. It is a very important initiative, of course, given that private debt in Portugal is very high. No 1. the quarter was over EUR 400 billion, representing 220 % of GDP ( gross domestic product ). It is in fact a very high debt value in the private sector and calls for greater responsibility throughout the lending process in Portugal. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, in this particular situation of the Portuguese economy, what is very surprising is that the government has taken more than one year after the final deadline for transposition of this Directive to finally do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u244	Very competent! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u245	This costs all Portuguese, and the deadline for transposition of the Directive was March 2016. We are in June 2017, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! This government has delayed the transpositions of all directives, which now occur in the triple of the time in which they occurred.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u246	That's right! Somebody has to remember this!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u247	With the previous government, delays in the transpositions of directives were practically zero, were below 1 %,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u248	... but the most recent data indicate that at present these delays are three times higher. So what we demand from the Government is that, please, we transpose in a timely manner the directives that are fundamental to the life of all Portuguese people. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u249	You now have the floor on behalf of the CFP, Mr Paulo Sá.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u250	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : The proposed law under discussion today aims to regulate access and exercise of the intermediate credit activity and the provision of consulting services in relation to credit contracts and may result in greater protection of the rights and legitimate interests of consumers. There are, however, some issues on which the draft bill of law could be improved. In particular, we refer to a better definition of some concepts, eliminating ambiguous interpretations that could compromise the proper application of the proposed regime, as well as the need to enshrine the duties of the Banco de Portugal as a supervisory entity of this legal regime. Such improvements will not cease to be made in the debate in the speciality and in the process of passing the decree by the Government. But, Mr. President and Mr. Members, the approval of this legal regime, aiming to regulate an activity so far deregulated, will not operate miracles. The problem of abuses in the financial system, which generates deep mistrust in credit institutions and other financial system institutions has deep roots and cannot be overcome with the addition of successive regulatory layers and allocation of new supervisory powers to the Banco de Portugal. The collapse of BPN, resulting in a harmful management, led to a strengthening of the powers of bank supervisors and regulators, but this did not prevent the same problems from occurring in BES on an even larger scale a few years later. Just as strengthening the protection of bank customers did not prevent BES from deceiving customers by selling them « cat per hare ». in fact, Mr. President and Mr. Members, the problem is not in the dishonesty of any banker or in the greed of a particular credit intermediary or, even in the incompetence of a certain supervisor, the problem is that the financial system is controlled by large capital and placed at the service of the interests of that large capital, which adds to the fact that a low-wage policy has pushed workers into a massive recourse to credit. It is not worth feeding illusions, thinking that layer on the layer of regulation and supervision will prevent the financial system from parasitising the economy, diverting resources to speculation, exploring bank clients or misleading those who need to resort to credit. The successive scandals of the financial system that have occurred in recent years show the exhaustion that a financial system dominated by the great capital and its service is always a step ahead of the legislator and the supervisor, succeeding in circumventing the law and circumventing supervision. The resolution of the problem requires that the financial system in general and the bank in particular be placed under public control, managed not with the aim of rapidly obtaining fabulous profits, but rather at the service of the people and the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u251	Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u252	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : Credit intermediaries already exist and therefore their activity must be regulated and we must protect the people who resort to them, until they are normally people in a fragile situation, in cases already over-indebted or in cases where they have no alternative, even because of failure to yield. It therefore seems good to us that there are criteria of suitability, of clear and transparent information to provide these people with contractual protection, without prejudice to the fact that we can improve in the specialty, in particular as regards, and has already been referred here to the powers of the Banco de Portugal. But there is a fundamental problem, which is the following: over-independence of economies and families in Portugal and in the western world is not resolved by more regulation of financial intermediaries. It is logical that, with financial intermediaries, they have to be regulated, but the underlying problem of over-indebtedness is not that, the underlying problem of over-indebtedness is the expansion of finance to areas of society that were previously free of finance. When public health falls, what appears is health insurance and is finance; when education ceases to be free and affordable, what appears are loans for education; when there are no housing policies, what there are housing loans; when there are no public policies, when there is no social state, what always appears to compensate for the absence of the social state, is finance. Therefore, finance enters into all spheres of life of families, people, who become dependent on financial markets, their moods, the excess of information and inequality of the relationship that necessarily exists between someone who wants to access a service and an institution that has much more power and will always have more power than that person who wants to enter the service. That is what ultimately determines whether a debt or a level of private indebtedness, in this case, of families, is sustainable or not. As long as finance continues to be the way to compensate for the decline in real income, as long as finance continues to be the way to compensate for the decrease in the weight of labour in the product, as long as finance continues to be the way to compensate for the lack of public services, we will always have cases of over-indebtedness, regardless of what regulations we want or can do. That is why we should certainly regulate — the Left Block will be here for discussion in the specialty and believe it is an important step — but let us not forget that the problem of over-indebtion is solved by two measures: increasing the real income of work and withdrawing the finance of spheres of our social and collective life where it should never have entered. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u253	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr João Pinho de Almeida.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u254	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Returning to the discussion for what is actually at stake, we are here discussing the transposition of a Directive and a legislative authorisation which goes a little beyond the transposition of that Directive on the brokering of financing contracts, and of financing contracts which, in the case of the Directive, even have a very specific object, which is that of housing credit. I believe that no one in this House is calling into question the importance and necessity of such a credit, not only in an economy of the kind of ours but in any economy, though much stronger and even with average incomes greater than ours. Obviously, it is an activity that exists, which makes all the sense that it exists and therefore has to be ensured that citizens have sufficient tools to make informed decisions about options for recourse to financial services. If there are intermediaries in this matter, is there sufficient information for citizens to make their decisions? Not always. Are there conditions on the part of the State to monitor and supervise these types of entities? in the Portuguese case, no, because there is a legislative omission. That is why I do not call into question the market, and this legislative omission must be fulfilled which obviously undermines the State's role in regulating that market. That is what is intended to be done, and very well, in relation to the principle. Then, of course, regulatory options always have an inherent level of discussion, because they may or may not contribute more to the clarification or more to the bureaucracy of the system, and they themselves may damage the relations that are normally established on the market between the different entities and the citizens individually considered. from our point of view, and it has already been said, either in relation to the role of Banco de Portugal or in relation to the complexity, especially at the three levels that are established for intermediaries, the debate in the specialty may be important for us to achieve a better final product than the bill presented here. In short, therefore: it makes sense, of course, to transpose the Directive, it makes sense to use the transposition of the Directive to fill a legislative vacuum, but it makes sense to favour, firstly, the informed decisions of the citizens and a regulation that does not prejudice the functioning of the market within rules that obviously have to be defined by the State. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u255	There are no further inscriptions on the part of the parliamentary groups. Mr Under-Secretary of State and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u256	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: First of all, I would like to thank you for the interventions that have been made and that are going precisely to welcome the diploma we have presented here. The diploma, as mentioned above, is not only a transposition of the Mortgage Credit Directive, it is a more complex diploma, insofar as it overcomes a market failure to regulate credit intermediaries in general. And so it took longer. There is a set of stakeholders, and a wide range of stakeholders, and therefore it was necessary for a long-term discussion with several associations, precisely to ensure what has been said, i.e. the need to regulate the market in an efficient way, asking for the information necessary to ensure the quality and suitability of the services provided, without requiring excessive bureaucracy to the intermediaries of consumer credit, which, of course, grant much smaller credit than what is required to mortgage credit intermediaries. So it was in this sense that we worked, this is the proposal that we put forward here, and it is the proposal that we consider appropriate to solve this gap. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u257	Mrs. Members, the general debate on the proposal for a law No 89/ XIII ( 2 ) is thus closed. ( a). Let us now proceed to the debate of draft law No 555 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Ensure parental assistance to childbirth ( NAP), in general, in conjunction with draft resolutions 928 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government act to ensure compliance with the rights of women in pregnancy and childbirth ( NAP ) and 929 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the provision of water delivery in the National Health Service ( PAN ), Bill No. 563 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 15 / 2014 of 21 March, in order to strengthen the rights of pregnant women during childbirth and puerpera after hospitalization ( The Greens ), also generally, and draft resolutions 934 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strengthen measures to monitor pregnant women and puerpera in the National Health Service ( PCP ) and 935 / XIII ( 2. ( a) — On the choice of water delivery in the National Health Service (The Greens). To begin the debate, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u258	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The rights of women in pregnancy and childbirth have been widely discussed in contemporary society. The objective is an adaptation to the reality of each epoch and a constant attempt to improve the circumstances in which this same reality occurs. We live in a country that has a national health system that, with all the imperfections that we can point out to it, is functional, and this is a great advantage for maternal and child health. in this search to improve the circumstances we need to look at what is yet to be done. in one of the three initiatives that we bring to the debate today, we propose to comply with the recommended by the World Health Organization ( WHO ) on the need for greater support from the government and social development partners against disrespect and abuse of women during pregnancy and childbirth. For the NAP, it is urgent to bring this issue to debate in Portugal, not only because it has already been recognized by the World Health Organization that abuses, disrespect and ill-treatment during childbirth constitute a violation of human rights, but also because of the results of the investigation, prepared in 2015, by the Portuguese Association for Women's Rights in Pregnancy and childbirth, whose representatives are here today and we greet, who witness situations of violence that are not only residual. We therefore propose that women's rights be guaranteed dignified and respectful assistance during pregnancy and childbirth and that the institutional delivery plan be implemented. On the other hand, it is known from existing studies in the area that, when there is continuous support for the couple, the participation of the parent in childbirth is more active and the moment can become an experience with benefits for all. in this sense, in a second legislative initiative, we argue that the parent is not considered to be a companion of health services and that the law ensures the right to their presence, as well as the right of the couple to choose a companion who can provide support to both, trying to ensure that a safe and happy delivery experience is achieved for all actors. in the third legislative proposal that we bring today, we have also proposed that the hospital units that already have physical and technical means to offer the possibility of giving birth in water become operational so that the choice about the type of delivery is assured to women. Water deliveries are already used in European hospitals, particularly in England, Germany, Sweden, Belgium, and also in Australian and New Zealand hospitals, meeting recommendations for the promotion of the World Health Organization's normal delivery. In Portugal, there are three hospitals with the necessary physical conditions to provide delivery in the water: the Hospital de São Bernardo, in Setúbal, the Hospital Garcia de Horta, in Almada, and the Hospitalar da Póvoa de Varzim. however, this option is not yet available for women. Water delivery costs less for the hospital entity, requires a lower number of health professionals and the administration of fewer drugs.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u259	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u260	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is a problem that worries and moves several Members of all the parties represented here. Without entering into reducing controversy over terminology and succeeding in putting aside sterile prejudices, I believe that we all agree that a more humanized and less mechanized birth, accessible to all women and not only those who can choose it financially, will bring us undeniable collective and civilizational benefits. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u261	To present the legislative initiatives of the Greens, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u262	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first idea I would like to stress in this debate is that the maternal and child mortality levels in Portugal are extremely low and worthy of a developed country. in this sense, all measures taken in the Assembly of the Republic in relation to childbirth should take into account that we should continue to walk to even higher levels in terms of the development and protection of mothers and babies. Today the Greens present two projects to the Assembly of the Republic. in draft law No 563 / XIII ( 2. ( a) The Greens make it clear that the decision to follow up the birth is in fact the woman. If she decides to be accompanied in all stages of labor, or if she decides to be only partially accompanied in the stages of labor, or if she even decides not to be accompanied, it is a decision of the woman. We believe that this issue should be overcome by law. On the other hand, the Greens also consider that childbirth is not the final end of a process. in this sense, considering that, for example, postpartum depression affects between 10 and 20 % of women and that, at the stage when women are puerpera, there may be several uncertainties, several states of doubt that may in fact promote anxieties, sorrows, fatigues, frailties, health services and, essentially, the National Health Service (NSS) should not fail to provide support to puerpera at this stage, in order to ensure greater safety for the mother and the baby. In particular, given what I have just mentioned, childbirth, which is not a final end, is a process that deserves this follow-up at the next stage. This is because, if this security exists at the time women are accompanied at the stage of maternity admission, the passage home may constitute a phase of insecurity. However, if there is a direct line or form of contact with the service where the delivery was made, we believe that there is a possibility that these uncertainties and weaknesses will decrease substantially. On the other hand, the Greens also present to the Assembly of the Republic a draft resolution on the option for underwater delivery or delivery in water, as we understand to call it. We believe that this birth can only be materialized, and this is evident, if it is natural and low-risk delivery. There are certain conditions, such as some level of risk, which cannot, at least, generate a woman's right of choice in this matter. But in the circumstances in which it can be practised we must also internalise that it can be a way — for now, it should be a woman's option, of course, in cases where it can be materialized — to prevent women from subjecting themselves to other invasive methods and which also have secondary consequences, as we all know. in this sense, taking into account the experience done at the Hospital de São Bernardo, in Setúbal, taking into account a petition, which entered the Assembly of the Republic, by maintaining this experience, taking into account the opinions we already know of the Order of Doctors and the Order of Nurses, taking into account that the Directorate-General of Health and the World Health Organization do not find a technical pretext to prevent underwater delivery, what the Greens propose is that the Directorate-General of Health prepare a report...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u263	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u264	I will finish Mr. President. As I said, what The Greens are proposing is that the Health Directorate-General not only prepare a report on delivery in the aquatic environment, referring to international studies and practices in other countries, and also in Portugal, and that the same should be delivered to the Assembly of the Republic, but also an information guide for women to be able to make a conscious and consented choice about the matter and, finally, they propose that a pilot project be created in Portugal, within the framework of the National Health Service, where the underwater delivery can be materialized in two public hospitals, one in the north and the other in the south.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u265	To present the legislative initiative of the CFP, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u266	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As has already been said today, the rights of follow-up of pregnant and puerpera women have allowed in our country to significantly decrease maternal-child mortality levels. The PCP does not defuse this decrease in maternal-child mortality rates with the creation of the National Health Service. We believe, moreover, that it was the creation of the National Health Service, the dissemination of care at the level of prenatal and postnatal follow-up that actually allowed these advances. But we do not fail to point out that for these advances, for these internationally recognized levels, it has competed with the increasingly specialized training of health professionals who are involved in childbirth, both nurses and doctors. Similar to what has been the attack on the National Health Service and the provision of health care by successive governments, the area of follow-up of pregnant women and puerpera has suffered with this. We will give only a few examples that have contributed to the reduction in the quality of health care, which, in fact, is not so felt, given the clarity and commitment that professionals have performed in this area. in the Amadora-Sintra hospital, 20 nurses are currently missing in the Departments of Pediatrics and Women. Many hospitals are today confronted with the difficulty of ensuring complete scales of the emergency service of gynecology and obstetrics, because in the black years of governance PSD / CDS-PP have left the National Health Service many professionals, especially doctors, who today need to ensure these emergencies. [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] We also know that, today, there are still many shortcomings with regard to operating blocks, which do not allow women to exercise the right to be followed during the cesarean process. In this sense, it is to strengthen the health care that is provided to pregnant women and puerpera women and the public response that we present a set of recommendations. From the outset, we recommend that the Government hire the professionals needed, whether nurses or doctors, to ensure the sexual and reproductive health of pregnant women and puerpera; that it improve the working conditions of these professionals in view of the dignity of careers, providing effective professional valorization; that it undertake a survey on all operating blocks, in the National Health Service, of the conditions that are currently preventing pregnant women from being accompanied; and that, following this survey, proceed to the works, to allow the exercise of this right. We also recommend that the Government strengthen teams with other professionals, including physiotherapists and psychologists, in preparation for childbirth courses to treat and work areas that are not currently or are still very insufficient, and that it extend, in primary health care, the provision of health care at the level of gynecology and pediatrics. With regard also to postpartum depression, we believe it is essential that it be reinforced...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u267	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u268	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, with regard to postpartum depression, we think it is essential that medical and psychological monitoring be strengthened in this area. In conclusion, Mr President, with regard to sub-water delivery, we argue that the Directorate-General for Health should draw up an opinion, which should be preceded by a scientific study, which will in fact allow us to verify the conditions under which this type of birth should occur and if there is no danger to maternal and child health following its completion. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u269	Mr António Sales, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u270	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The work of delivery in a hospital environment has brought together decreasing numbers in relation to infant and maternal mortality, whether it is a normal birth, or a dystocic birth. The rules for control and prevention in hospital and asepsis, as well as the protocols and standards for clinical guidance, have also improved the indicators mentioned above. These impara developments have greatly contributed to the evolution of our main indicators over the last decades and have allowed our system to assert itself as one of the most secure in this chapter. Although he is even born in Portugal than he was a few decades ago, he is born today with more quality and safety. That is why, associated with security, we must do everything to humanize this moment and transform it into a moment of psychological involvement for the triad father, mother and child. We therefore welcome the NAP, The Greens and the CFP for the initiatives presented, because in this country, founded on ideals of freedom and equity, there can be no dubious laws that challenge equal access.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u271	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u272	in a country of ideological bases based on equal opportunities, it cannot be the moment of birth a moment of discrimination for the child, for the father or for the mother. The current legislation, being less clear in some aspects, cannot and should not serve as a conditional element to family rights and to the set of options that, after duly safeguarding the security conditions, preserve the responses today possible and those that are considered, from a scientific point of view, such as best clinical practices at the international level. We therefore accompany the NAP and Les Verdes projects on parental care for childbirth and the strengthening of the rights of pregnant women during childbirth and of the puerpera woman after hospitalization, as well as on the choice for delivery in aquatic environment, provided that duly substantiated about the degree of risk to the mother and to the newborn. We also follow the draft resolutions of the CFP and of Les Verdes, which recommend strengthening measures to monitor pregnant women and puerperas in the National Health Service and the fulfilment of their rights. It is also important to highlight the Socialist Party's history of intervention in the field of maternity and paternity rights, and therefore its approach cannot be exhausted from the important progress being made in the meantime, including a diversified set of cross-sectoral measures that include measures in the field of health, education and employment. The delivery results from a natural physiological issue and, as such, must be humanized and demedicalized and, if possible, allow a lower use of medical interventions, depending, of course, on the will of the woman, after full clarification of the pregnant woman and prior informed consent. Underwater delivery should occur only in situations of normal delivery, low-risk pregnancy and with all duly guarded safety assumptions. The last two years have been years of enormous investment in health professionals, trained with a high level of demand and with great professional preparation, which has already begun to reflect on the inversion of low birth rates, the improvement of neonatal mortality rates, as well as maternal mortality. The year 2016 was, in fact, the one in which this same trajectory was consolidated, investing a decline trend in a recent past that compromised our population balance.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u273	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u274	I'm done now, Mr. President. For the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, it is imperative that mother's safety and baby's safety be always guarded and that the levels of quality and safety to which the SNS has used us continue to contribute to make Portugal today a global reference in maternal and child health care. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u275	For an intervention, Mrs Isaura Pedro, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u276	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today a set of six initiatives, mainly aimed at the important issue of maternity. These initiatives aim, essentially, to extend women's rights during childbirth and puerpery, to strengthen follow-up measures during pregnancy and also to provide delivery in water in a hospital environment in the National Health Service. Bill No. 555 / XIII ( 2. a ), presented by the NAP, proposes that parental care be guaranteed at birth, leaving the father of the child to be considered a companion, thus allowing the presence of another companion at the time of delivery. Indeed, provided that at your request and that there is no risk to the safety and health of the mother and the baby, we must view as positive the possibility of that power to benefit from the support and follow-up of a third person of your choice. The draft resolutions 929 and 935 / XIII ( 2. (a) presented respectively by the NAP and the Greens, and recommending to the Government the provision of delivery in the hospital environment in the National Health Service, it is true, that there is an acceptable assumption, but that it should bear in mind the safety of mothers and babies, and that is a requirement of which the Democratic Social Party will never abdicate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u277	Neither do we!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u278	This matter has already been discussed in the past legislation and there has been a clear difference in the scientific community, particularly between the Order of Nurses, which considers that this practice is a safe option in healthy women, and the Order of Physicians, who does not recognize a scientific basis that bases the benefits of delivery on water, claiming that there is no benefit to the baby and even assuming some concern of serious harm. with regard to draft resolution No 934 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) submitted by the Portuguese Communist Party, which recommends to the Government the strengthening of measures to monitor pregnant women and puerpera in the National Health Service, it is said that it makes unacceptable allegations about the successive Governments of the PSD and the CDS, which deserve us immediate repudiation. We all agree with the strengthening of human resources, with the improvement of the working conditions of nurses and doctors, but accept the basis of discussion that the PCP claims would be to deny the principles that have moved all governments over the past 41 years and the sacrifices that the Portuguese have made, especially in recent years. I shall finish, Mr. President and Mr. Members, saying that the Social Democratic Party expresses openness in relation to all proposals that deepen parental rights, that safeguard the interests of the child and that contribute to the improvement of the quality and humanization of health services. That the results achieved in recent decades, in our country, on maternal-child mortality are never called into question. We believe, therefore, that it is worthwhile to reflect with the scientific community on some of the proposals before us today, in order to ensure that generous and well-intentioned ideas cannot represent any risk to the life and safety of mothers and children. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u279	You now have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u280	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss various initiatives of the NAP, the Greens and the CFP relating to pregnancy, childbirth and follow-up by the SNS after delivery. with regard to support for maternity, the right of pregnant women to better health care, follow-up during childbirth, the position of the CDS is clear: we must therefore welcome the many positive developments that have occurred in recent decades, but we will not fail to fight for the improvements that still have to take place in this area. Parturients cannot be prevented from being monitored during labor and, in cases of scheduled and risk-free cesareans, guaranteed that the conditions of safety in the care should not cease to occur either. As I have already had the opportunity to mention in this House, we understand that this practice in nothing affects the maintenance of asepticism with good rules of surgical practice that all health institutions, whether public or private, should observe. As regards the conduct of deliveries in water, the CDS believes that there should be caution and weighting in this area, requiring consistent and robust investigation and compliance with the best technical and scientific guidelines of the competent authorities. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the birth of a child, birth, is one of the most striking moments in the life of a woman, a family. Being a natural physiological process, however, it is not free of risks, even in cases where pregnancy occurred normally. As you know, at any time during labor or at the time of expulsion a complication may occur. And this complication, which can't always be expected, can bring serious consequences to both the mother and the baby. So mother's safety and baby's safety must always be guarded. Portugal is from countries with a lower rate of birth mortality. We are a country of reference worldwide in matters of maternal and child health, and we want to continue to be. Whether births occur inside or outside the water, either occur in a marquisa or in an anatomic chair, the important thing is to ensure always two essential factors: the authorization previously granted by the mother, in an informed consent process, and, most importantly, the guarantee that the hospital where the delivery occurs right there has at the disposal of the mother and the child a multidisciplinary team to ensure an urgent or emerging effective action at the time when a complication may arise. I repeat what I have already said: for the CDS, the mother's safety and the baby's safety are always and in any circumstances in the first place. It is essential, in any case, to ensure quality clinical assistance and to ensure that such a significant, important and happy moment, such as the birth of a child, does not turn into a painful moment. There is clearly room for improvement, and it is essential to maintain the humanization of their services and professional teams and to guarantee the working conditions that can achieve this objective. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I end by repeating, once again, what I mentioned here in February last year, i.e., the CDS defends more and better health care, better support for maternity and the humanization of care activity, in the certainty that what, for us, is fundamental: that people are even at the center of the health system. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u281	For one last speech on this debate, Mr Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u282	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal has today, and thanks to the National Health Service, one of the best indicators in the world regarding maternal and child health. This is the way we must continue, further improving these indicators and at the same time humanizing — that is our challenge — the National Health Service and the provision of health care, particularly in pregnancy and childbirth. To reduce, for example, the use of cesareans, favouring natural or vaginal delivery, or to reduce instrumentalization in childbirth, the high rate of episiotomy, as still happens today, must be steps to be taken in the future. There must also be a way of humanizing the SNS, always maintaining the safety of the mother and baby. On the proposals under discussion, I should like to say that we have already taken interesting steps in this Parliament, in particular by clarifying the right of women to appoint one or a companion, the significant person who fully understands, to accompany birth, even in the case of cesarean section. It is now essential to assess whether all hospitals, particularly those of the National Health Service, are already making available, they are already guaranteeing this right to women, because we know that there may be constraints, in particular the operation of the hospital or even of the birth block itself, which may not be guaranteeing this right to women. It is important that hospitals do so and, if necessary, adapting their own spaces to ensure this right. On follow-up during the postpartum period, it is important to increase the connection with primary health care hospital services, particularly in the immediate postpartum periods, for example, to prevent depression, which, as we know, has a significant rate in women. Regarding delivery in water, there is data, evidence that shows that it can reduce anxiety and pain, can facilitate and enhance natural delivery, can reduce the use of instrumentation and drug induction, and it is positive that it is. There is, however, some controversy with several health professionals and, therefore, we find it important that the Directorate-General of Health should address the issue, that it should raise scientific evidence and, above all, that it should state in what conditions is that delivery in the water can be done so that, by taking advantage of the benefits it brings, it is not at any time put at risk the safety of the woman and the baby. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u283	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we finished the session, I would ask just a little more tolerance and ask Mr Duarte Pacheco to announce some initiatives that have entered the Bureau. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u284	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, draft resolutions 938 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Extension of the port metro network — Porto ( Campo Alegre ), Matosinhos and Vila Nova de Gaia ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 939 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Concretization of works at Basic School 2, 3 Avelar Brotero, in Odivelas ( PCP ), which goes down to 8. Commission, 940 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends the urgent construction of the new building of the Court of Justice in Coimbra ( PCP ), which falls to 1. the Commission, and 941 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that measures be taken to increase vacancies in specialized boarding schools ( PCPs ), which fall to 9. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-23.u285	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work. The next plenary meeting will take place on Wednesday, 28 June, beginning at 3 p.m., having as the only item on the agenda the 15th year debate with the Prime Minister. I wish all the Members and all the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 14 hours and 7 minutes.]]
