ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 8 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities who open the galleries, please. Mrs. Members, let us begin our agenda, which starts with the general discussion of Bill No 104/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — transposes the amendments introduced by Directive ( EU ) 2015 / 1794 to Directive 2001 / 23 / EC and Directive 2009 / 38 / EC as regards seafarers. To present the bill, Mr. Secretary of State for Employment, Miguel Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The adequate protection of workers from different sectors of activity is one of the noble and fundamental objectives of public policies and, in particular, of labour laws. It is precisely in this area and in a sector with relevant particulars and challenges — the maritime sector — that the bill currently under discussion transposes a European directive with aspects relevant to Portuguese law. Proper and complete transposition of directives ensures greater harmonisation of rules in the Member States. This ensures a better guarantee of fundamental freedoms and rights, particularly of workers, as well as the proper functioning and regulation of the European internal market. in this framework, the Government approved at the Council of Ministers on 16 November a bill to the Assembly of the Republic to transpose into the national legal system Directive 2015 / 1794 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 6 October. This Directive is relevant insofar as it amends a set of other previous directives which exclude or allow Member States from the exclusion of seafarers from various rights in different areas. In particular, five directives are concerned: Directive 2008 / 94 on the protection of employed persons in the event of insolvency of the employer; Directive 2009 / 38 on European works councils and on information and consultation procedures in groups or undertakings with a Community dimension; Directive 2002 / 14, which also sets out a general framework for the provision of information and consultation of workers; Directive 98 / 59, to bring the laws of the Member States closer to collective redundancies; and finally Directive 2001 / 23, to approximate the laws of the Member States to maintain workers' rights in the event of transfers of undertakings or establishments. As I said, these directives excluded seafarers from their scope or allowed each Member State to choose to exclude them. In particular Directive 2008 / 94 excluded paid fishermen by percentage and Directive 2009 / 38 excluded merchant marine crews. Other directives made it possible to exclude or exclude workers from the fisheries and merchant marine sectors within the scope of seafarers. however, and despite the specific nature of the maritime sector, the European Union understood and, in the view of the Portuguese Government, it was well understood that these exclusions were not justified in the name of adequate social protection and labour rights of workers, so that this new Directive better regulates the labour market in this sector at European level and, in particular, improves the way in which the working conditions and labour rights of maritime workers are safeguarded. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is important to say that the Portuguese law was already in line with the amendments which the new Directive now introduces in part of the Directives I mentioned. however, this was not yet the case with the amendments to Directives 2001 / 23 and 2009 / 38 concerning, respectively, the European works councils and the shape of the transmission of the establishment of which maritime workers were still excluded. With the approval of this diploma, in addition to the exercise of the right to participate in the business councils, in cases where they exist, of course, the proper protection of the rights of maritime workers in the event of transmission of an undertaking or establishment, as provided for in the Portuguese Labour Code, is guaranteed, thus ending with the exception that so far existed in this sector. That is why an important step is being taken in improving the working conditions and the rights of workers in the maritime sector. It is a positive step that will bring significant improvements to the worker of such a sector relevant to the national economy and with so many specific challenges. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u3	For an intervention by the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State for Employment and Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs: We have today a proposal for a law which basically transposes three European directives, all relating to the same sector, that of maritime workers, and which essentially address three essential issues. They are, on the one hand, the protection of employees in the event of insolvency of the employer; on the other hand, the establishment of a European works council or a procedure for informing and consulting workers in undertakings or groups of undertakings of a Community dimension; and, thirdly, the approximation of the laws of the Member States with regard to the maintenance of workers' rights in the event of transfers of undertakings or establishments. They are, in this case, amendments that stir in detail into two existing diplomas, Law No. 15 / 97 and Law No. 146 / 2015, but which are relevant in the way that seafarers, in particular, have their protection or not, which regulate the activities of seafarers and which, on the other hand, establish the legal regime of the individual labour contract on board fishing vessels. From these amendments, it ends with a situation of exclusion of some activities and some workers of these regimes, which were previously excluded, covering all of them now. I would like to leave a note on one of the amendments that are at issue here, since, in fact, in addition to creating greater harmonisation throughout the maritime sector, we are extending the protection of workers. The proposal which will be of greatest interest to transposition is that of transmission of the company or establishment, whose regime, we know, is currently under discussion in the Chamber of the Republic to undergo changes that protect workers most, in this case due to situations of possible fraud. This ends up being positive because we are including workers in a sector which is already very precarious and which has added difficulties. thus, these workers may also be included in the amendments they intend to make. It is desirable that this process be as fast as possible so that these workers too are covered by the protection they want to give and the more rights they want to give to the workers who may be in this situation. Therefore, the Left Block has no further indication of the transpositions being made here, because they actually extend the horizon of protected workers in this area and in this sector, which is very relevant. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u5	For an intervention, Mrs Sofia Araújo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This bill transposes into the domestic legal order the amendments introduced for maritime workers by Directive 2015 / 1794 to Directives 2008 / 94, 2009 / 38, 2002 / 14, 98 / 59 and 2001 / 23. Law No 104/ XIII aims to improve the level of protection of rights covered by the Charter of Fundamental Rights in Labour Law in the European Union and to ensure equitable conditions throughout the European Union. It is therefore of particular importance to facilitate the harmonisation and improvement of the protection of the rights of maritime workers and to treat them equally in all Member States, thus not undermining competition on the European market. It also aims to promote employment, improve living and working conditions, provide adequate social protection and dialogue between social partners, thereby increasing the number of maritime jobs for European citizens and the quality of these activities by reducing the exclusions that affect maritime sectors in Union labour law. This initiative is part of the Blue Growth Policy adopted in the Limassol Declaration by European ministers responsible for maritime policy and the Europe 2020 strategy, and is part of a more intelligent European framework for employment and health and safety at work that the Commission understands as fundamental in the context of the Agenda for New Skills and Jobs : A European contribution to full employment. The impression that seafarers are less protected by European Union labour law than other workers, and may contribute to the lack of interest in these careers, will be safeguarded by the elimination of exclusions or the application of requirements adapted to special employment circumstances at sea. In Portugal, the six directives covered by this proposal were transposed without any exclusion from seafarers, benefiting from the general rules applicable to other workers. Given the different treatment given to the same categories of workers in the different Member States, this initiative improves the equality of conditions between ships. This transposition thus reinforces national sovereignty in the face of the need for Member States to ratify European initiatives, contributing to an improvement in working conditions, in view of their applicability, also to Portuguese seafarers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u7	For an intervention by the PCP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretary of State : Maritime workers were placed outside the scope of Community legislation which, although limited, ensured certain rights. The Government now states that it submits a proposal on business transmission and establishment procedures to improve the working conditions of seafarers and their information and consultation. The legislation in force in our country does not safeguard the following: ensuring a procedure for informing and consulting workers in Community-scale undertakings or groups of undertakings and guaranteeing the maintenance of workers' rights in the event of transfers of undertakings or establishments or part of undertakings or establishments. The draft law refers these matters to the application of the Labour Code, which does not necessarily mean that we should rest. As has already been said, in the Committee on Labour, there are several bills on the need for clarification and improvement of this scheme, because it has been used, and in particular in recent months, fraudulently, by PT Altice, to disresponsibility of workers and proceed to a process of redundancies. Therefore, in this regard, we believe that the reference made by this proposal for a law to the Labour Code is correct as long as future amendments to this process are safeguarded. from the CFP, we believe that there are matters that have in fact to be guaranteed, from the outset, the guarantee of the maintenance of all contractual and acquired rights, in particular in respect of remuneration, antiquity, professional category and functional content, as well as acquired social benefits. It is also important to ensure the application of the existing collective labour regulation instruments at the time of the transmission of the undertaking or establishment, the right of opposition to the transmission of establishment, without loss of rights to workers, which is a matter which is not currently enshrined in the Labour Code. It is also necessary to ensure that the implementation of the transmission of business or establishment depends on a binding opinion of the ministry responsible for the labour area, before a phase of compulsory negotiation with the representatives of the workers, a mechanism which, even today, applies to layoff situations. We want this matter also to be extended to situations of transmission of a company or an establishment, because this alone means safeguarding that we are not faced with a fraud in the transmission of workers to lapse rights and collective bargaining, but, on the contrary, that they are safeguarded. on the part of the CFP, we will intervene in this process, even more when we understand that these matters should be preceded by public discussion, which has not yet happened with regard to this proposed law which we are now discussing on why we understand that, until the end of the period, it is very important that we be able to analyse with the rigour that the pronunciations of workers' organizations and representative structures require us. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u9	For an intervention by the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Let us begin this plenary session by discussing the transposition into the internal legal order of the amendments made to seafarers by Directive 2015/1794 of the European Parliament and of the Council. in European legislation, seafarers had not been covered by previous directives regarding the maintenance of workers' rights in the event of transfers of undertakings, establishments or part of undertakings or establishments. Let me say from now on that one side, which has already been mentioned here, is that this is a matter which is under discussion, in particular, in the Committee on Labour and Social Security at this time and that the proposed law of the Government, implementing the Directive, refers to the legislation currently in force. Therefore, it is a matter which will, of course, need to be assessed in the field in order to verify what is intended to be done with this equivalence. Again, it should be noted that although seafarers in European terms have not been included in these regulatory forecasts, the fact is that in Portuguese legislation this is already happening. Portuguese law was before European law. That is why, of course, we agree that in this context, what is our advance in the treatment of seafarers is maintained. It is obvious that we must also take note that when implementing a directive we are talking about legislating to domestic law by adapting what is European legislation. Why, then, does the Government — at least not include the preamble to its bill — not hear anyone about the drafting of this bill? Mr Secretary of State, the CDS-PP considers that this bill did not work well with respect to formalisms: hearings of sector bodies, zero! Moreover, of the 20 proposals for the transposition of directives submitted by the current Government, only 11 in this mandate refer to hearings of sector entities. It seems that the government has little interest in what is happening in the sector when the directive is transposed. The fact that it is a directive is precisely to allow governments to listen to those interested in the sector, to listen to those involved in this sector. in the context of the speciality discussion, we will do what the Secretary of State and the Government have not done in the Commission. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u11	For an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government submits a proposal for a law on amendments to the law of maritime law and maritime workers. First of all, it is important to highlight the following: this proposal aims at the transposition of a directive which, in turn, amends other directives. Firstly, the PSD Parliamentary Group points out that, of course, it follows this bill from the outset by the importance of harmonising the legislation of the various Member States and, on the other hand, because we believe that, despite the maritime sector being a sector with certain specificities, it does not seem to us that it makes any sense — and in the directive this is mentioned — that these workers do not have the same rights, currently enshrined in Portuguese law, of other workers, in particular as regards the issue of transmission of the establishment. We therefore believe that it is essential, in fact, that these rights be guaranteed to maritime workers and that is why we follow this initiative. However, we want to draw the attention of the honourable Members. Members — and it has already been mentioned here — that currently runs a legislative procedure on the rules governing the transmission of the establishment and, therefore, since this proposal makes a reference to the Labour Code in respect of this matter, the PSD considers that, of course, it will be possible to make some improvements to this diploma in the field of specialty, by collecting some contributions from entities that cannot be left out, since it is a relevant matter. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u13	Mrs. Members, having completed the examination of this bill, we will move on to the next item on the agenda, which is generally discussed in Bill No 105 / XIII ( 3 ). (a) — Authorizes the Government to create the national system of vessels and seafarers. To present the bill, you have the floor to Ms. Minister of the Sea, Ana Paula Vitorino, who I take advantage of to greet.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposed law we put to the consideration of this Chamber aims to authorize the Government to create the National Boat and Maritime System — SNEM, which consists of a single national data system, which adds all information relating to vessels, vessels, seafarers and other information related to maritime activities. The SNEM, despite already centralizing the personal data existing in other databases, is a database with a different extent, with consequences for the level of security and protection of personal data, integrates matters relating to rights, freedoms and guarantees and is thus covered by the relative reservation of the legislative competence of the Assembly of the Republic. The SNEM assumes the cross-border access of all entities with material competences in this area, of procedures in the area of maritime activities, which will allow greater speed, security and clarity in relations with the Administration, while at the same time providing greater clarity and ease of view from the particular point of view in access to public services in the area of the sea. The creation of the SNEM is an option for the future that puts forward the dematerialization of procedures through the establishment of a single electronic counter, the electronic balcony of the sea, as a point of access, thus avoiding travel to services, in a logic of simplification, with its social, environmental and economic benefits. However, local support is guaranteed where necessary, through entities close to the citizen, ensuring the placement of custom access and service terminals through the local bodies of the National Maritime Authority, in particular the captains and port administrations. The operation of the SNEM will allow for greater cooperation as well as joint and synergistic work of the various public administration bodies, particularly between DGRM ( Directorate-General for Natural Resources, Safety and Maritime Services ), the local and central bodies of the National Maritime Authority and the Registry and Notary Institute. It is to implement this system that we request your authorization. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u15	Mr Matias of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u16	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Simplifying policies that lead to the deburocratization of processes necessary for the development of professional activities, to the saving of time and money and that at the same time do not cause redundancies or the devaluation of workers are, of course, welcome and welcome our support. Furthermore, the Left Block, in a draft resolution adopted by a majority in September this year, already recommended to the Government — among other measures for the recovery of fishing, reduction of rates and sustainability of marine resources — the creation of a single or similar counter for applications for registration, processing and amendment of documentation for vessels and seafarers. The proposal which the Government here brings to us — which is the subject of the authorization it is asking us to establish a centralised system of registers and certifications applied to vessels, as well as to seafarers, seems to meet the recommendation that we have proposed here and has been approved. In response to this request for legislative authorisation, the doubts we raised on this single counter are in the way that will work. Given the manifest lack of frameworks and resources at DGRM in recent years, with constant renovations and exits of technical personnel, we fear that everything can be in the same or even worse. The principle is good, but its implementation will have to be followed very closely, so that it will be a real improvement to the sector. More precisely, in order to achieve this system, it will be necessary to ensure the existence of sufficient and qualified staff who can issue orders in a timely, safe and efficient manner, not further overloading the current scarce framework. If the recognized insufficiency of qualified workers remains, the risk of errors increases, and can thus distort the good purposes of these measures, discrediting it. On the other hand, the proposed simplification of procedures should be associated with a reduction in the heavy operating costs of the entire registration and certification process, with the lowering of the costs of the fees and emoluments applied to the fisheries sector, particularly to small vessels. With these two actions — simplification, which is now proposed, and cost reduction — we believe that better conditions will actually be created for the sector. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u17	Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u18	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The CFP agrees with the need and importance for the Portuguese State to create conditions to systematize, structure, aggregate and simplify the maritime data system and maritime activity. Organize, in the best way, information on registers, certifications, etc. , it is an important measure and the seamen themselves have come to propose and defend it. We recall the memorandums and proposals that FERCTRANS ( Federation of Transport and Communications Unions ) has submitted for the creation of an updated maritime database. From this database, progress should be made towards training, certification, in public schools, such as FOR-MAR, for navigation and mastering, and the High School of Nautical Infante D. Henrique for officers, free of charge and agile, so that the country has an enhanced and recovered capacity at this level. This database will show what the PCP has been warning for many years: the installed decline of these capabilities. The need to reverse this direction is an objective for which this measure may, in part, contribute to the modernisation, structuring and simplification of these data. This is a legislative authorization, with an assessment and vote, let us say, more expeditiously in the Assembly of the Republic — tomorrow we will be able to complete the legislative process at this stage — that there are concrete aspects of drafting the articulation that can be improved, specifically with regard to the protection of personal data, to the entities that can have access to them and how they can do so. Likely, tomorrow, the overall vote will take place in general, in the specialty and global end in plenary and the CFP will present a very specific and very concrete proposal with regard to legislative authorization, in order to safeguard, in the best possible way, the protection of personal data and how entities can access them, not distorting in any way the meaning of the bill and its objectives, but effectively contributing to ensuring and better safeguarding these concerns. I ask the Bureau that this proposal from the CFP, which will now enter, be distributed as quickly as possible so that we can all have access to it and, at the time of the vote, we all know what is on the table for decision. In addition to this contribution from the CFP to improve the proposal for a law, we also leave two comments: on the one hand, the need, as a country, for terms, at DGRM level, and not only, more and better capacity to respond to services in order to follow up the functioning of this system and access to this database; on the other hand, the need for the definition and regulation of fees and emoluments, so that there is no harm to seafarers or the burden which, often, this type of procedure implies, with costs that are difficult to bear. Once again, also here, seafarers should not have to pay to work. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u19	Mr Ulisses Pereira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u20	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : I congratulate the Government on this initiative, which, in our view, is positive and worthy. Facilitating investment in the sea, preserving its enormous biodiversity, which is one of the greatest national wealth, was one of the purposes of the former Government. As such it is for the current Government to continue the process of simplification and deburocratization initiated and provided for in the Law on the Management and Management of the National Maritime Area ( LBOGEM ), approved in 2014 by PS, PS, and CDS-PP. With this legislative authorization, the Government thus intends to make the State more agile, simplifying procedures and speeding up access to data for public acts. Furthermore, by creating a single national data system for vessels, recreational or fishing vessels and seafarers, it is intended to avoid travel and delivery of documents to different public entities, since all documentation remains in the system, thereby reducing the cost of context for companies. It is important for all, but it is essential for small businesses in the fisheries sector that are still facing a high bureaucratic burden that needs to decrease, however, without losing financial and environmental rigour. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, despite the objective of the initiative that has been presented to us in general agreement, the bill raises some doubts to us, in particular, at the level of sharing or consultation of information. Thus, in accordance with Article 2 ( 2 ( c ). the, « may consult the information contained in the SNEM(... ), the supervisory authorities, the judicial authorities, the criminal police bodies, the implementing agents, the Tax and Customs Authority and the social security services, provided that the information cannot or should not...» — and is in the « or» which is the problem — «... be obtained from the respective holders ». With this wording, the legislator is, we judge, to be confused and not specific in the rules of consultation of information by allowing both situations, risking losing the virtuality of data collection on a single platform. On the other hand, we believe that the current shortage of resources in DGRM ( Directorate-General for Natural Resources, Safety and Maritime Services ) will be further weakened if the allocation of new skills is not accompanied by new resources allocated. Moreover, it is not clear how the Government, in the context of this planned dematerialization, does not proceed in parallel with other instruments already legally provided for in the area of the sea, such as the plans for the situation and the allocation of the planning of the national maritime area. And in the context of the 2016 Simplex, why has it not yet been possible to conclude some measures whose completion deadline has already ended, for example, the capital register of vessels and the regulation of maritime registration, both dependents of the Ministry of the Sea, which aim to make the obligations simpler for citizens and businesses? In conclusion, I leave the challenge to the Government and the Ministry of the Sea to definitely embrace the cause of the blue economy, taking advantage of the work of the former Executive. Two years after the constitution of a ministry itself...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u21	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u22	...the sea deserves more political impetus, at the level of fisheries, science, industry and investment. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u23	Mr. João Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister for the Sea, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The XXI Government of Portugal has developed a clear strategy for the sea, focusing on economic issues and increasing its relative importance throughout the country, based on a model for the development and promotion of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, of the use of marine resources, based on international commitments to be respected and in Europe 2020, considering fundamental the strengthening of recovery dynamics among different actors, and promoting the competitiveness of value chains that use the sea and marine resources. in this reflection have been widely identified as strong constraints or weak points the need for characterization and breakdown of statistical information, an appropriate and unburocratized legislation that encourages investment and the promotion of professional competences essential to the development of activities. The Government Programme, approved in this House, refers to the sea as a future bet for Portugal and proposes the implementation of a Simplex from the sea, aiming at eliminating bureaucracy and making public administration more agile, ensuring quality and responsibility in the decision-making process, reducing the costs of context and increasing competitiveness. We therefore reiterate the importance and relevance of this proposal for a legislative authorization law. The Government proposes the establishment of a national system for the registration of vessels and seafarers and the establishment of their conditions of operation and access. As a central and single data system, coordinating different entities and procedures, dedicated to registers and certification, organizes maritime activity information, with aggregate management that articulates various database systems, making it possible to simple, unique, fast and decomplicated use. Entities that need to know registration and certification data should be able to make it easy and accessible, allowing them to cross and consequently to manage more flexibly. It is intended that the national ship and sea system shall include data and information on all types of vessels, including letters issued and certified training entities, in the constitution of the sea's electronic balcony, making the registration acts of vessels and seafarers and the verification of closer changes to citizens and digital access, which are geographically wider, easy and unburocratized. We therefore welcome today's proposal for dematerialization and administrative simplification of processes by establishing and reducing response times, allowing rapid and effective access to information, considering also the reality of the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira, improving the services provided, pursuing efficiency and capacity-building objectives in public administration bodies approaching companies and citizens. Everything, in the challenge of simplification, without facilitation, crossing the sustainable use of sea resources with the strengthening of the national geostrategic position, capturing more wealth for the Portuguese sea. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u25	Mrs Ilda Araújo Novo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u26	Mr President, Mrs. Minister of the Sea, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : The Government is required by this House to grant it legislative authorization for the establishment of the national ship and sea system, a central and unique data system, which aims to give publicity to registers and certifications and to aggregate and organise all information relating to maritime activity. For the CDS, simplifying the lives of citizens and businesses and modernising the Administration should be a consensual concern. over the last two decades, Portugal has taken an internationally recognized path in the field of administrative modernization, with a particular focus on the relationship of the state with citizens and companies. It is indisputable that the bet on administrative modernization is, at the same time, an imperative that must have broad social and political consensus and an opportunity to challenge the logics of political-party confrontation, removing sterile and artificial discussions. Syntomatic of this consensus was the collaborative logic and feasibility in the recent past of all legislative measures relating to the administrative modernization approved by the Assembly of the Republic, with the favourable vote of the Socialist Party. in the CDS, we believe in the bet in a nearby, simple and digital administration. Simple, because, on the one hand, a more efficient, rational and less bureaucratic public administration is needed and, on the other hand, it is essential to think about the paradigm of an administration that trusts all those who relate to it and in which it itself is in trust. Digital, in order to ensure a public administration that uses and maximizes innovation through instruments that encourage the dematerialization of its processes and implements interoperability between the different systems existing in its sphere, favouring transparency and security in the interaction between Administration, citizens and economic and social actors. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for the Sea, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Interestingly, or perhaps not, contradictoryly unsurprisingly, and, unfortunately, no doubt, all of the above mentioned mentioned contained, almost in their words, the PSD/CDS Government Programme, which did not deserve ratification of those who now call on this Parliament to grant legislative authorization for the establishment of a national ship and sea system. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u27	The question that arises here has to do with a need, already for a few years and for which it is called for solutions—and the former Government, PSD/CDS, was preparing to implement them — to ensure that information on the registration, inspection and certification of vessels, as well as crew certification, is processed quickly and adapted to our economy of the sea. More than two years have passed over the start of the current Executive's duties, and so far nothing has been done. This inertia has left a large part of complaints in many sectors of the sea and complaints of injury to the competitiveness that our country should also have in the sea. Mrs. Government members, more serious than the lack of Government answers to the questions that the CDS has raised on this matter, is the lack of respect for the word given, which is not honored. So, in order for the Government to grant Parliament legislative authorization to resolve this matter, there is one question that remains: will, or will not, increase the value of the fees to be charged for each register? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u28	To conclude the debate, you have the floor of Ms.Minister of the Sea, Ana Paula Vitorino.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u29	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking all the banks for their comments, and certainly suggestions will be taken to make the proposal more valuable, particularly with regard to access to the database, where what is intended — in fact fulfilling the opinion of the National Data Protection Commission — is that interested parties can access their registers and that such entities can also do so without having to consult between entities. This is a very important issue and must indeed be clarified so that there are no doubts. On the issue of DGRM to have new competences, the answer is: no. In fact, those who will exercise these powers are still the same entities, but contact with citizens becomes a kind of « single window », in which they do not have to go through several entities to achieve exactly the same end. in this measure, and having here a simplification and a relief of work, it is natural that the value of the fees is not increased; on the contrary, as there will be acts that will be merged, the natural thing is that there is a decrease of the amounts involved.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u30	Mrs. Minister, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u31	I shall conclude by saying that from now on this will be the hat diploma for all other diplomas relating to each of the sectors, as soon as it is published.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u32	You really have to finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u33	As for the CDS, they had four years to do so, had an absolute majority and could have approved the legislation they understood. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u34	Mrs. Members, the discussion of Bill No 105 / XIII ( 3 ) is concluded. ( a). We turn to the third item on the agenda, which is part of the joint assessment of Bill No 106 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves measures to promote equal pay between women and men by equal or equal value, in general, of draft resolution No 1168 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the submission to Parliament of the new action plan on the promotion of equality in the labour market and the fight against wage inequalities ( PSD ), of Bill No 693 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves measures to promote equal pay for men and women by equal or equal value ( NAP ), in general, and draft resolutions Nos 1177 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to promote equal pay for men and women by equal or equal value ( NAP) and 1181 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — To promote equal pay between women and men ( The Greens ). Mr Maria Manuel Leitão Marques has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We all know that the principle of equal pay between women and men for equal or equal work is enshrined in our Constitution, as well as in so many national and international regulations. But we also know that the reality experienced is different and that there is still a significant disadvantage for women in the labour market, whose average basic wages are 16, 7 % lower than for men. This situation is all the more serious as it is certain that the participation of women in the labour market is currently similar to that of men and their educational levels are even tendingly higher. This bill thus enshrines measures to promote equal pay between women and men for equal or equal work, a commitment made by this Government. The obligation of companies to ensure the existence of a transparent remuneration policy based on the evaluation of the functions components, based on objective criteria common to men and women, is highlighted. What is now being created also establishes annual statistical information mechanisms, sectoral barometers and balance sheets per company, in order to better identify the pay differences and correct those resulting from discrimination in any sector and in any company. This production of statistical information does not, however, imply any increase in company charges, as it is already contained in the single report. For companies with more than 250 workers or, better, with 250 or more workers, the obligation to submit a plan to assess the pay differences detected in statistical information after notification by the ACT ( Labour Conditions Authority ) is stressed. It is also stressed that the worker or his or her trade union representative may also require the Commission for Equal Labour and Employment (ISCED) to issue an opinion on the existence and discrimination of pay on the basis of sex. We believe this bill, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it thus helps to implement our Constitution on fundamental rights and duties, bringing the law closer to reality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u36	For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The wage inequalities between women and men in the performance of identical functions is unfortunately a reality. It is an unfair and persistent reality that we have to fight in a certain way. A difference of 16, 7 % is unacceptable in the average monthly remuneration between women and men, despite the measures taken in the past, including the preparation of the first report on wage differences by branches of activity, its discussion at the heart of social consultation and the presentation to the social partners of recommendations of good practices in the elimination of these differences. Mr Minister, at the end of long and repeated announcements, the Government presented a proposal for a law on this subject, ignoring related legislative initiatives already presented by other parliamentary groups. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the government has been late. The government is late and the trailer is delayed. The PSD Parliamentary Group has already presented, in March last, a draft law which, through several amendments to the Labour Code, enshrines innovative transparency measures,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u38	Which ones? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u39	... in order to combat wage inequalities between men and women. This is an in line bill with the most recent recommendations of the European Commission and of the European Parliament on the application of the principle of equal pay and which you introduce, Mrs and Mrs. Members, wage transparency measures, with regard to the composition of remuneration, and non-discriminatory professional assessment and classification systems based on sex. For the PSD Parliamentary Group, the wage policy of a company or organisation will be both transparent and more aware of the composition of the remuneration of each professional category, including, of course, the fixed supplementary benefits, in kind and in premiums, with the data disaggregated by sex. And it was in that sense, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have introduced this draft law in the Commission, waiting for proposals and contributions from all parties in a spirit of collaboration and not of competition.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u41	And we must not forget, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is already a legislative process, which has begun here, on this subject and this proposal for a law must be examined together. however, legislative intervention, which is absolutely necessary in this area, does not exhaust all the measures that must contribute to eliminating this phenomenon. It should always be accompanied by a strategic action plan, which includes a broad and coherent set of measures, duly timed, with defined goals and performance indicators, like what was done by the previous Government in the new generation of national plans.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u42	They didn't do anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u43	That is why we are also bringing to Parliament today a draft resolution that recommends that the Government, in the context of combating wage inequalities, inform Parliament, because we do not know, we do not know, the new strategy that it intends to implement from January 2018. It's incomprehensible, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have no information to date on the strategy that the Government intends to develop in the future, despite the insistent questions that the PSD has raised in parliamentary hearings. Mrs Minister, I ask you: what strategy does the government intend to implement in the new plans? [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PS Deputies Carlos César and Elza Pais.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u44	For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u45	Mr President, Mrs Minister for the Presidency and Administrative Modernization, Mrs and Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Wage inequality between men and women, persistent and universal problem, remains one of the main vehicles of gender discrimination. Since the entry of women into the labour market, they have generally had a lower pay than men, based on the preconceived idea that women did not need to earn a living wage, since their husbands were the support of the family. 2016 data show that there is a constant devaluation of the role of women in the labour market. Although 49 % of the population employed is female, which shows a balance in participation in the labour market, they take approximately 83 % of the average basic monthly remuneration of men and approximately 80 % of the monthly average gain. Thus, while there are also situations of pay discrimination, we propose the following amendments to the Labour Code and the Public Contracts Code. We propose that any worker be able to ask the Commission for Equal Labour and Employment to issue an opinion on the existence of pay discrimination on the basis of sex, which, being favourable, obliges the employer to place the worker or the worker discriminated against on an equal basis in relation to others who develop equal or equal work. We propose that the dismissal or other penalty allegedly applied to punish an infringement be considered abusive when it takes place up to one year after the request for this opinion. We propose that, like the one envisaged, for example, in the Swiss law, only public contracts be awarded to entities which guarantee equal pay between men and women. We also recommend that supervision be strengthened with employers, that awareness-raising campaigns be promoted in this area and that, together with the social partners, the development and use of objective methods for assessing jobs should be undertaken, in particular with a view to the publication of a manual for the evaluation of work without gender bias, as well as the adoption by equal plans companies. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the right to equal pay for men and women for equal work was recognised by the International Labour Organisation ( ILO ) in 1919. It seems to us more than obvious the urgency of the implementation of these measures in Portugal. Do we have to wait another 100 years or can we decide now? [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u46	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens today present to the Assembly of the Republic a draft resolution which aims once again to contribute to promoting equal pay between women and men. The Greens are fully convinced that the problem of this inequality does not lie in the lack of legislation. The problem of this inequality actually lies in a labour market which has characteristics of exploitation and of disrespect for workers' rights. And it remains true that women, who are much more subject to the risks of poverty, unemployment, precariousness and social inequality, suffer this greatest vulnerability because they can be mothers or mothers and society from the principle, which is, in fact, based on reality, that women are still the ones who follow their families, especially their children. It is also women who, at home, do the housework and the family accompanying work. Therefore, in the logic of employers, there is indeed a great discrepancy in terms of their availability to work, between what men can give and what women can give. This is a social and labour problem, of course, which, in our view, requires that public entities not be deprived of instruments in order to try to change. According to the most recent information available in the Report on the Progress of Equality between Women and Men at Work, Employment and Vocational Training - 2016, on the monthly average remuneration of the working population on behalf of another full-time, the wage difference between men and women continued, with the average basic monthly remuneration of women being 835 euros and that of men on 990 euros. They also add the multiple forms of precarious work and also the violation of parental rights and the worsening of the difficulties of articulation between family life and professional life, among other issues. A study by the International Labour Organisation on wage inequality and maternity also reveals that women suffer a wage penalty because they are mothers, as I have already mentioned, which raises concerns not only regarding gender equality but also at low birth rates, a problem with which the country faces and which we have so often discussed here in the Assembly of the Republic. In short, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greens have already brought this matter with some appeal to the Assembly of the Republic and today what we are proposing in particular is, in essence, the strengthening of some existing mechanisms. First, we propose that the Government ensure the existence of updated statistical data on wage differences between men and women by sector of activity and, within them, for a greater or more effective understanding of the phenomenon, by company or body. Secondly, we propose that the creation of awareness-raising and clarification campaigns on the promotion of this wage equality be ensured, both with employers and with citizens in general, in order to create a more effective social awareness. We propose, thirdly and lastly, that an inspection plan be implemented, with the involvement of the Working Conditions Authority, to detect and combat situations of gender discrimination in the world of work, from which reports should be drawn up to make public and, of course, that the Assembly of the Republic should know them in depth.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u48	For an intervention, Mrs Elza Pais has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u49	Mr President, Mrs Minister for the Presidency and Administrative Modernization, Mrs and Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: I begin by welcoming the Government for the presentation of a proposal aimed at combating one of the most flagrant and unacceptable gender discrimination — equal pay for work of equal value is a principle enshrined in the ILO international conventions, in the Constitution, and this principle must be met. However, we know that women earn less than 16 %, slightly higher than EU data when they do work of equal value. We know that as the qualification increases, the wage difference is still higher. We know that the working day of women is longer, with an average differential of 1 hour and 13 minutes not paid, according to ISCED data, and that there are more women than men at part-time work. Combating wage inequalities is a commitment from this government, as the Minister has just said, and that it is obviously being fulfilled. And it is not just an isolated measure, as the right one wants to believe, that is part of a much wider package, that of the agenda for equality in the labour market, where many measures have already been adopted, namely the increase in the national minimum wage, which has reduced wage inequalities between men and women, because they are the women most benefiting from the increase, since they have lower wages. The law of balanced representation between men and women in business leadership, which will begin to be applied from the very beginning of next year, will also contribute to the reduction of wage inequalities, as well as the incentives, which have been many, to the use of parental leave by men and the reduction of unemployment in 2016, which was 11, 4 %, having left the unemployment situation 41,500 women,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u50	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u51	...that they had a salary, that they didn't have or that the right took them away.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u52	Oh! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u53	I just mentioned a few examples. It is therefore false, Mrs Sandra Pereira, and it is incorrect for the PSD to say that there is no information on the strategy that the government is developing. [[PSD MP Sandra Pereira protests.]] There is information, you may not agree with the strategy that is, in fact, much more courageous than the proposals that you promoted when you were a government. There has been a self-regulation for taxation, the unemployment of women has decreased and is increasing and will continue to increase the national minimum wage. They say they do not know, but it is neglect or pure demagogy, which is absolutely indispensable in this matter. Nevertheless, we welcome your efforts in convergence, as we welcome the diplomas of The Greens and the PAN, which we will obviously deepen in the specialty. Therefore, Madam Minister, Secretary of State and Secretary of State, we welcome this proposal, which will do much to combat discrimination and wage inequalities in our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u54	Mrs Sandra Cunha, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u55	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, Secretary of State, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: Equality between women and men was enshrined in the Treaty of Rome 60 years ago as one of the fundamental values of the European Union. The principle of equal pay for equal work is one of the central pillars of this equality. However—and as has already been said today several times and by several benches—60 years later, the data show that wage inequality is still a European reality, and Portugal is no exception. Moreover, during the years of governance of the troika and the PSD / CDS in Portugal, these inequalities were accentuated, and in this period Portugal was from the European countries where this difference was most intensified. The average monthly remuneration of women is now lower than that of men by 16.7 %. If we include other components, such as supplements, prizes, etc. , this difference is almost 20 %. It is not surprising that women continue to be effectively the most vulnerable to poverty and social exclusion. It is indisputable that in the middle of the 21st century we still live in deep sexist societies and with huge gender imbalances. In terms of participation in the labour market, women are on equal terms with regard to full-time work, and if we look at academic qualifications, they are in higher grades: 53, 4 % of students are women, 63 % of graduates are women. We cannot therefore accept this rotten reality of having different wages for equal work, depending on whether it is performed by a man or a woman. We therefore follow the projects presented here today, which aim to combat these discriminations. However, we believe that the Government's proposal for legislation is on the way, because it provides for companies to adopt a policy of transparency with regard to gender wages, but applies these measures only to companies with more than 250 employees and, at the end of three years of law, to companies with more than 100 employees. Now, for the Left Block, this option is incomprehensible. This means that companies with 50, 25 or 10 workers may violate the principle of equal value for work without any problem and therefore legitimise wage inequality. The Left Block considers that gender equality is neither negotiable nor negotiable. That is why we are going to put forward proposals for amendments in the field of expertise. We also disagree with the deadlines for companies to correct the situations that are detected. For example, following a complaint, a company is given almost one year to resolve, repair and correct the situation of discrimination. We repeat, for the Left Block, gender discrimination and wage inequality cannot be negotiable and therefore cannot be contemplated. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u56	You now have the floor by the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the Minister and the Members. State Secretaries. This is something that we have discussed several times here and, as we all know, at first, brings together broad consensus in this House. In fact, the question of wage differences in Portugal, in the order of 17 % between men and women, is largely an absolutely insistent and persistent reality which needs to be resolved because it is so unfair. We are generally in agreement with the draft resolutions which have been tabled here, but, Madam Minister, the proposal for a law that brings us here deserves careful reflection, not because of the principle, with which, I repeat, we communicate, but by the way and the way of achieving it. I'm saying this why? First of all, because we lack some up-to-date data so that we can take this path with freedom and rigour. We do not know where equality plans are, because there is no information about their development, about their execution, about what went wrong, about what went wrong, about what went well, about what went well, about what was done and what was lacking to do. We still have no information on the plans that are coming to an end and we do not know what will be done in the future, because these plans end up within 15 days and at that time we should have others already in force, and we do not know them yet and we do not know them at all. So, Minister, we have some lack of information so we can consciously decide what to do and we cannot sanction something without more information. We are also lacking, Mrs Minister, the indication of consultations made, of opinions, of hearing entities, of the listening of the social partners on the factual possibility of implementing these measures on the ground. We have no strict information about this, which, for us, Minister, is to legislate in the dark and we do not like to legislate in the dark because we understand that this means, most of the time, but always, to legislate badly, and the CDS does not want to embark on it. I would therefore like to tell you that, in the field of expertise, it will be important for us to get to know all these matters up, so that we can decide accordingly. I also wanted to say two things about content. We know that this is a difficult job, which has difficulties that are proven to be satiety, because no one has yet managed to overcome this difference that continues to exist. however, this is a diploma with some legal innovations, with inversions of burden of proof, with various assumptions and obligations and complex enforceability for companies that concern us and lack explanation. In fact, it frightens us to see the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so dedicated to Simplex, and well, introduce here a bureaucratic burden on companies, which will have to demultiply themselves in balance sheets, plans, reports and statements that will obviously complicate their lives. They have no charge, but they have bureaucratic charge, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u58	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u59	I shall conclude, Mr President. So, Minister, we have to look at these issues very carefully, in the specialty, because they will certainly bring some difficulties, and more than help can complicate and for that we are not available. In conclusion, I just wanted to say that, in fact, there is a lack of other measures to reconcile professional life with family life, that you always talk about but ended up not presenting anything and that we would like to see implemented. Invariably, they gave way to the CDS initiatives and it was good that we would also work on this. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u60	You now have the floor of Mrs Rita Rato from the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries: Today we are discussing a proposal for a law on matters of wage discrimination, and it is important to keep in mind that these discriminations are not distractions. Companies do not discriminate because they never realized they were paying women less. Wage discrimination is an option in the internal management of business policy and this is also a fact that characterizes the Portuguese employers, although it is enshrined in the Constitution that for equal work equal pay, persist and aggravate the phenomena of direct and indirect wage discrimination. We therefore put this question not from a pedagogical perspective but, above all, from a supervisory, punitive and inspection perspective. We believe that, in fact, much has been said about wage equality issues and it is time to abandon the pedagogy talk about companies to adopt a forceful speech on compliance with the law. On this subject, we would like to say that we have brought to Parliament several times concrete situations of discrimination. The ISCED ( Commission for Equality in Labour and Employment), on the subject of a complaint by SIESSI (Sendicato de Industrias electrices do Sul e Ilhas ) about a company in the Town Hall of Cascais, Vitrohm, who had and effectively took discriminatory practices, either in access to career, or in access to employment, or in paid practice, urged this company to correct these situations. The CFP denounced this situation, in fact, at the time it questioned the Minister for Employment of the CDS on this matter, and we are still waiting for the answer, because we have never had it. But, Minister, over four years, the situation in this company persists, workers continue to be discriminated against, including in access to vocational training. Therefore, discussing issues of equality in the world of work implies, firstly, discussing the issues of the effectiveness of the ISCED intervention and the Working Conditions Authority on these matters. Madam Minister, we believe that the measures proposed here are important but are not the first line, because the first line should be inspection and punitive. We have doubts about Article 5. the proposal for a law, which provides for a correction plan. We want you to be safeguarded and we would like to hear the Minister on the interpretation of the application of this article, that is, it means that the existing and existing counter-ordering regime is removed. We understand that the correction of discrimination is, firstly, an obligation of a company, but this cannot at any time mean that companies are two years old to correct this injustice without paying the fines and without the ancillary penalties that have to be applied. Therefore, on our part, we believe that these measures are important, but they cannot at any time mean the removal of the counter-ordinary framework which is already in force on this subject. In fact, these issues are important, but, Madam Minister, more than legislation—and here we are to discuss it in the specialty—the effectiveness and intervention of the Working Conditions Authority in this area is needed because otherwise we continue to discuss resolutions and the reality of workplaces continues to be marked by discrimination. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u62	Mr Maria Manuel Leitão Marques, Minister for the Presidency and Administrative Modernization.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u63	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u64	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u65	Mr President, we would like to be provided with information through the Bureau which contains the strategy that will be developed regarding the fight against wage inequalities, which we do not know at all, and that Mrs Elza Pais said there was...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u66	Madam Member, you cannot use the time to intervene. You have to ask specifically what the Bureau wants to distribute.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u67	It is the information that says it contains the strategy that the PSD does not know and I would like to know very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u68	It will certainly be made available to the Members. Members when the government distributes them. I now give the floor to the Minister for the Presidency and Administrative Modernisation. The Minister for the Presidency and Administrative Modernization — Mr President, Mrs Deputies and Mrs Deputies. Members: Wage equality policy is part of this Government's programme. We cannot look at this problem as if it did not exist, but we should also not opt for solutions that, eventually, are great in books but that in practice would be difficult or impossible to apply. That is why we have an integrated strategy, as has already been said. at the top of large companies, promoting greater equality in their boards of administration; on the basis of the real and sustained elevation of the minimum wage, which has a greater impact on women; and cross-sectionally, by creating concrete and practical mechanisms that reduce the distance between law and reality, because it is not enough to have good laws, it is not enough to make changes in the laws, it is necessary to ensure that they are applied and that they promote mechanisms that allow greater transparency for all companies — because the obligations of greater transparency are for all companies — and greater pay equality. That is what is intended with this diploma. The proposed law is also a balanced and integrated document that respects the principles of administrative modernization, contrary to what has been said here, and promotes the rights and interests of workers and workers without overloading companies with greater benefit or additional information. We already have the data we're going to work with. What we are going to do is work within the public institutions so as to have, reveal and make more and better information that enables us to detect and manage this problem. We intend, therefore, to strongly reduce discriminatory wage differences between women and men in situations where work is equal or equal value, a plan for which we have the support and collaboration of the Assembly, allowing the debate in the specialty to improve our proposal in what is understood by the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. This is our purpose, this is our proposal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u69	Mrs. Members, let us move to the fourth point of our agenda today with the joint assessment, in general, of the projects of lein. 667 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — 45. the amendment to the Criminal Code, qualifying the crime of murder committed under a dating relationship ( PSD ), 688 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Includes murder in the context of dating relationship in standard examples concerning the crime of qualifying homicide ( NAP), 689 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Qualification of the murder crime committed in connection with a dating relationship ( 45. the amendment to the Penal Code ( CDS-PP ) and 690 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the Criminal Code, making the murder in the context of violence in the qualifying homicide ( BE). Mrs Andreia Neto from the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD noted the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women, on a visit to the Portuguese Victim Support Association, with the announcement of the presentation of the bill today under discussion, which aggravates the criminal frame of murders committed during dating. We have already stated on that date that the crime of murder already has a qualification in another type of relationship, including marriage, and we believe it is very important that this qualification can also be done in the context of the dating relationship. I also welcome the other parliamentary groups who have joined the PSD in defending this purpose. Violence in courtship is not, unfortunately, a rare phenomenon. Data show that between 2014 and 2016 the number of victims of dating violence increased almost 60%, and only in 2016 did 767 victims of dating violence, which means that these crimes need to be adequately treated, qualifying them and thus exacerbating their criminal framework. Women continue to be mostly, and very expressively, the main victims of such crimes. Also according to the Annual Internal Security Report, the highest proportion of cases of physical violence occurred in situations of domestic violence among lovers. The truth is that although since 2013 the violence in dating relations has been introduced in the context of domestic violence crime, having aggravated criminal treatment, no identical treatment has been given when the practice of a homicide crime is involved. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the current juridical-penal framework, it is likely to reveal special censorship or perversion of the agent to kill the spouse, former spouse, person of another or of the same sex with whom he or she maintains or has maintained a relationship similar to that of the spouses, incuring, in such cases, the agent in the practice of a crime of qualified murder. However, the same crime committed against the person with whom the agent maintains or has maintained a dating relationship can only be punished as a simple murder crime. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This differentiation has no justification today, being of the most fundamental justice that this equalization is extended in the context of the practice of crime against life, so we propose that homicides committed against boyfriends or former lovers become qualified as is the case with murders committed against spouse or ex-husband. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u71	Mr André Silva of the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Statistics indicate that dating violence has been gaining more and more expression, which is truly worrisome. Violence in courtship corresponds to a threat or practice of an act of violence, punctual or continuous, committed by one or both partners in a relationship of love, with the aim of controlling, dominating and having more power than the other person involved in the relationship. It can be physical, sexual, verbal, psychological and social, representing a transversal phenomenon to all age groups, economic, social and racial, with destructive impacts on victims. This phenomenon leads to extremely destructive impacts on victims, regardless of the type of violence. We are still often, perversely, confronted with a real banalization and romanticization of some violent acts. According to the National Institute of Legal Medicine and Forensic Sciences, 767 cases of dating violence were reported last year, representing a growth of almost 10% compared to 699 cases in 2015 and an increase in the order of 60 % compared to the 484 victims in 2014, while the PSP registered 1787 cases in 2016. The legislative amendment promoted in 2013 in the Criminal Code included dating relations in the legal framework relating to domestic violence, extending its subjective scope as a response to the growing number of stalking cases in which a former boyfriend, not complying with the end of the relationship, assumes aggressive and disturbing behaviours of the former partner's peace. Despite the merit of the legislative amendment, we believe that it created a mismatch by not introducing, in the same way, dating relationships in the legal framework relating to qualified murder, distorting the uniformization of the victim's range implemented in 2007, where the qualified murder and domestic violence presented matching catalogues. In view of the above, the NAP considers that it is a priority to fill this gap, by matching the victim's catalogues relating to crimes of qualified murder and domestic violence due to the inclusion of dating relations in the legal type of crime of qualified murder.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u73	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The projects presented here today by the PSD, the PAN, the Bloc and, specifically, by the CDS meet, at least among these groups, a consensus. And so it is by two orders of factors: first of all, because the facts prove that the violence in love is, unfortunately, a growing and increasingly worrying reality in Portugal. Physical and verbal violence among couples of teenage lovers is increasing, according to a team of researchers from the University of Coimbra. These researchers heard personal reports of verbal, physical, psychological, relational and sexual violence among young people between the ages of 13 and 19, who were living or had completed a relationship already marked by violence. Many times, some of the young people were living their first loving relationship and were already victims or aggressors, in what are early experiences of violence, some already experienced in the home of the parents, in a generational effect that is difficult to counteract. The number of victims signalled by the National Institute of Legal Medicine and Forensic Sciences also increased by about 60% between 2014 and 2016, revealing this worrying growing trend. Some of the people seen by the doctors of this institute eventually returned to recidivism situations. Most of the cases of physical violence in the reported dating refer to aggression, but there are cases in which people were threatened with knives or other weapons that endanger the lives of victims, so it is not at all displaced the possibility of murder in unhealthy dating. But there is a second order of factors that justify these initiatives today: as has already been said, there is in the current legal order a differentiation that, in our view, makes no sense. The recognition of the social relevance of the phenomenon of violence in courtship justified, through Law No. 19 / 2013 of 21 February, the equalization, for the purposes of the practice of domestic violence, of dating relations to marital relations. however, there is no equalization when the practice of a murder crime is involved. in the understanding of the CDS-PP, the equivalence in this situation is justified by proposing an addition to Article 132. the Criminal Code in order to qualify the murder in the context of a dating relationship, imposing an aggravated penalty. And if it is true that nothing prevents a judge, already today, from opting for the qualification of the murder, by assessing the circumstances, it is no less true that a margin of discretion is allowed that does not seem desirable to us. In addition, in the view of the CDS, there is a deterrent value in this amendment that we propose, both in the sense of general prevention and signaling of another form of combatting violence in dating, which seeks in this way to stop this worrying escalation. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u75	You have the floor to Mrs. Deputy, Sandra Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the data from the most diverse sources are unanimous: dating violence continues to increase year after year. Despite campaigns, plans and programmes, measures, legislative initiatives and instruments for prevention and combat, we are clearly losing the battle. And dating violence is as frightening as it confronts us with the evidence that the most murdering crime in Portugal, domestic violence, is simultaneously imposed as a cause and consequence of violence in dating relations. The cycle is vicious and perverse and therefore demands our greatest attention. The studies carried out in the area reveal that one in five young people has already been victims of violence in this context and the data available indicate that the violence in dating has been gaining more and more expression among younger people. Complaints of violence in dating to security forces and services in 2016 amounted to 1787 cases, of which 1020 between former lovers and 767 between lovers. The gender brand, like what happens in the violence between spouses or former spouses, is also present in the violence between boyfriends. Both the National Institute of Legal Medicine and Forensic Sciences and the Annual Internal Security Report reveal that the victims are, in their overwhelming majority, female. Physical violence and psychological violence in dating also assume frighteningly high proportions. Domestic and dating violence is therefore a serious and growing problem. It cannot be devalued, neither legitimated nor naturalized. And since this has always been our conviction in the year 2000, on the initiative of the Left Block, domestic violence has become considered a public crime, enabling the denunciation on the part of anyone who knows from it. Thus, 13 years later, also at the initiative of the Left Block, the violence between lovers also became considered a domestic violence crime and benefited from aggravated criminal treatment, similar to that envisaged for violence in marital relations. This was a step of decisive importance for the visibility of the violence in dating, for the recognition of violence by the victims themselves and, consequently, for the refusal of such behavior and for the promotion of their denunciation. however, the Criminal Code has not changed with respect to the occurrence of murder in the context of dating relations, in order to conform to what is envisaged and envisaged for murder in the context of marital relations, by marriage or de facto union, whether they are present or passed. The same argument for both cases is therefore expected to be treated with the same criminal dignity. This is the improvement that we propose to make to the Criminal Code: to qualify the murder in dating relations by ensuring that it becomes subject to special censorship or perversion the fact that the crime of murder is committed against the person with whom the agent maintains or has maintained a close relationship with dating. This is another step of obvious justice in combating this tragedy that afflicts Portuguese society and is another step in trying to combat this growing problem, which is the increase of violence in dating and, especially, violence among the younger ones, which is something we cannot turn our face against and in relation to which we cannot lower our arms. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u77	For an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Moreira of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The various bills under discussion today do not differ in their substance. The increasing violence in dating, if nothing is done, is the vision of tomorrow's society. In fact, this has been portrayed here right now: the persistence of gender-based violence, the annual massacre with which we are confronted and confronted and which calls us for a fight without injustice. If the big bet is education for the principles of the Republic, criminal law has a general preventive function that complements that larger weapon. contrary to what is read in some news in recent days, no one here wants the murder in a dating relationship to immediately say a conviction for a qualified murder. Parliament does not say sentences. The aim is to amend Article 132. that of the Criminal Code in order to bring the dating relations to the list of standard examples that may reveal special censorship or perversion in the murder and, therefore, to lead, if any, to a conviction for the crime of qualified murder. As Article 132 ( 2 ) states, as well as the favourable opinion of the Advocates'Order, the points of Article 132. the Criminal Code are exemplificative, are types of guilt, are not types of illegal. This amendment to the Penal Code does not automatically determine that a murder in a dating relationship is a qualified murder, there must always be the special censorship or perversion, provided for in the body of the article in question. That is to say, even without this amendment there have already been convictions for murder qualified in dating relations, but the general prevention, which we want to have in such an important area, is underlined by this amendment to the Penal Code, regardless of technical doubts that we will clarify in the field of specialty. By virtue of the amendment already referred to in Article 152 ( 2013 ). that of the Criminal Code, the ill-treatment inflicted on the framework of dating, current or preterital relations, with or without cohabitation with the person of another or of the same sex, began to integrate the typical prediction of the domestic violence crime, thus expressly joining the ill-treatment inflicted on the context of marital relations. This explicit inclusion of dating relations between cases which are protected under Article 152. that of the Criminal Code clarify a debate about the legal value that you want to protect in domestic violence. in this context, we see no obstacles to the transposition of this equation into the plan of the qualifying circumstances of another crime. The option is consistent with the government's legislative and political guidance that has been followed in the context of violence in privacy relations. Although this is not stated in the draft laws under discussion, the amendment would result in or will also result — and I draw attention to it — given the reference to Article 145 (2). the Criminal Code shall make Article 132 ( 2 ). , the inclusion of dating relationships between standard examples related also to the crime of offense to qualified physical integrity. Let's discuss this and other aspects of the specialty. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u79	For an intervention and to close the debate, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP Parliamentary Group obviously follows the principle underlying the various bills today under discussion—of course, they all have the same terms. We would like to say that, realizing the objective and perspective of intervention on this matter, that is, in fact, domestic violence and dating violence represent a serious violation of human rights and that it is a scourge that persists and gets worse today, it is also important to address specific situations of trivialization and widespread violence among young people, particularly within the school community. That is why, in keeping with the principle of these proposals, we must not fail to warn that many times, on this subject, we are always and only on matters of a repressive nature, and that, with regard to matters in the field of prevention, we often follow the reality of the application of projects in schools but are almost always projects that reside in voluntary or amateurism. With regard to this matter, it is urgent to discuss the issues of domestic violence, particularly of dating violence, from a professional perspective of intervention in these matters. There are subjects which, given their complexity, cannot be left alone in the volunteering plan. It is necessary to ensure the existence of psychologists in schools regarding the monitoring of all situations; it is necessary to ensure a public network of protection for all victims, which does not exist today, and which has to ensure, in fact, effective monitoring of these situations. It has already been mentioned here the opinion of the Advocates' Order in the PSD bill — it is the only one that has already identified that, regardless of the letter of the Code of Criminal Procedure being in accordance with which it is proposed, there is already a case-law which accuses the practice of a crime of qualified murder and, in this particular case, the case-law of a desecrating body on a concrete situation — we are still available to work on this proposal, also in the field of specialty. We will never abandon the view that exclusively repressive intervention on all kinds of violence will solve a problem that requires measures to prevent it and to monitor it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u81	Mrs. Members, let us move on to the last item on our agenda, which consists in the joint assessment, in general, of the projects of lein. 692 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Done at 45. the amendment to the Penal Code, strengthening the legal-penal protection of journalists in the exercise of functions ( PS ) and 691 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Criminal Code by making the attacks on journalists public in the performance of their duties or because of them ( BE ). To present the PS bill, Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our Constitution establishes, in a particularly clear and unequivocal manner, the protection, within the framework of fundamental freedoms, of freedom of the press. Retrieved of 48 years of dictatorship, censorship, lack of working conditions, indeed, our constitutional text is one of the most robust in the protection of journalistic activity, either in the collective dimension of the law of the founding of newspapers, either in terms of ensuring independence of the media from political power and from economic power, but also in an important dimension that is linked to objective conditions so that individual journalists can not only exercise their profession but also the important function of informing and guaranteeing the right of citizens to be informed. Consequently, within the framework of the legislative measures that we can set up and put on the ground to ensure such protection, the criminal dimension is not to be disregarded and must be an essential part of this context and of this legislative framework to be applied. Today, fortunately, the Statute of the Journalist enshrines a number of measures that ensure this protection in various fields, both in the protection of sources, both in the protection of independence and professional secrecy and in matters which have been deeply complemented by the intervention of the international conventions of which Portugal is a signatory. however, in some way, there remains not a gap but an area of intervention in which it is justified to fully strengthen the existing criminal protection, through the inclusion of journalists in the exercise of functions or because of them between entities and people who are, therefore, the object of protection added in the case of a significant set of criminal offences, to begin, of course, by the qualified murder, but which then falls within the framework of the Criminal Code as a factor of qualification of the crimes addressed to the holders in office and because of them. at this moment when we continue to see several examples of oppression, of difficulty in the exercise of professional activity, we can be satisfied to know that, in our constitutional framework and in our Portuguese Republic, we are, fortunately, of the good examples of those whom Freedom House or other organizations that monitor the conditions for the exercise of freedom of the press score positively. That said, this circumstance should not prevent us from being able to improve the legislative framework and should not prevent us from improving the objective conditions for the exercise of the profession, ensuring that those who are in line with the exercise of their fundamental right — but that it is also a way to ensure that citizens can exercise their fundamental rights of access to information and political participation — the criminal protection they still lack and that can effectively strengthen these same conditions for intervention. If Portugal, today, appears in 16. the place in more than 200 countries evaluated in this particular element — that of freedom of the press — does not mean that we should not seek to be among the best practices and commit measures that, either in criminal terms, by strengthening this protection, or then in criminal proceedings, because it also has its impact as a public crime, reinforce this protection and respond to the concerns and concerns that have been transmitted to Parliament and to the institutions of the Republic in cases where manifestly this protection did not exist and therefore the exercise of the profession might be concerned. For the same reason, I believe that Parliament today can, quite consensually, take this step and solidify the protection of the one who must continue to be an indispensable pillar of the democratic rule of law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u83	To present the bill of the Left Block, Mr. Jorge Campos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This legislative initiative takes place at a particularly troubled time in the field of social communication. Most companies face varying difficulties: role crisis; a significant fall in advertising revenues; the challenge of digital; new platforms arise which obviously put new and difficult-to-equal situations. Together with all of this, it is a worrying threat of concentration that can undermine not only a balance, already precarious, of competition, but also fundamental pillars of the rule of law, such as pluralism and freedom of expression. We reiterate: the purchase of VAT by Altice, to be confirmed, can open the doors to a situation of abuse of dominant position and aggravate an already very complex picture. In short, it would be said that the ecosystem of the media was taken by entropy for which it is not yet seen adequate response. Moreover, in this context marked by uncertainty, the need to obtain revenue can encourage or induce tabloidization phenomena, an explosive mixture, I say, which combines routines of exploitation of emotions with the least common cultural denominator. Unfortunately, there are still examples. This is the case with some — I stress, some — of the numerous television programmes on football transformed in practice into stages of irrationality and club-blindness. This was also mentioned by the President of the Portuguese Football Federation, Fernando Gomes, when he was heard on 12 days ago. the Commission of the Assembly of the Republic. These programs contribute to the burning of souls and it is not surprising that journalists are transformed into scapegoats. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the initiative now before us has precisely resulted in the denunciation of threats and attacks on journalists when they cover sporting events. As you will know, it is not always easy for a journalist, so often precarious, so often badly paid and pressured in various ways, to complain when such situations occur, blatantly attacks on the constitutional precept of freedom of expression and information. the draft law now before the Left Block Parliamentary Group, which introduces a small amendment to Article 132. the, paragraph 2 ( l) of the Criminal Code, in such a way that it becomes a public crime to assault journalists in the performance of their duties or because of them, thus broadening the range of cases already covered. This means that the need for the criminal process to start and strengthen the guarantee of independence is lapsed. Obviously, ladies and gentlemen. Members, these matters are not exhausted at the legislative level. There is much reflection to be done in terms of education, culture and literacy, but that is why this project is no longer less important. on the contrary, when it comes to freedom of the press and freedom of information, it is another contribution that goes in this direction. Obviously, we will follow the Socialist Party's project and we are convinced that it will be possible to achieve an absolute majority or at least a generalised majority in this Parliament. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u85	You have the floor for one speech, Mr Carlos Peixoto, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u86	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In anticipation of the conclusions, the PSD may say that it understands, even with references, the Socialist Party's initiative and expresses a reservation regarding the Left Block initiative. Although we do not identify, at least in our country, an alarming feeling of insecurity, public and notorious, about the activity of journalists and much less of a pressing risk of their activity, it seems to us that the strengthening of the protection of journalists and their powerful profession, favours and safeguards freedom of the press, freedom of communication, freedom of information and especially freedom, decisive in a state of democratic law, of research. On that, we have no doubt. However, this PS initiative deserves us a point: we are surprised that its schedule has been made in a meteorological way. Paraphrasing an ex-leader of the Socialist Party, he wants to ask: What was the rush? This former leader asked: "What is the hurry? And I ask: What was the hurry? This matter was scheduled at the Conference of Leaders 15 days ago, the bill was presented three or four days ago and, in a mature, consolidated, solid democratic society, do we not need to discuss these matters in more detail? This Socialist Party bill did not fall to the committee, it has no report from any Member, it has no technical note of the services of the Assembly — and it was important that it had, no more than to realize what practices exist in other countries — and, more than that, it has no opinion of any institutional entity — of the Higher Council of Magistrates, of the Public Ministry, of the Order of Advocates. All those who have specific competence and knowledge on the subject have not spoken. Article 132 ( l ) is intended to be amended. the — and, attention, the PSD has nothing against it — but this article has a history and every time it was changed it had a very well-founded justification for the explanatory statement of each of the diplomas. That's not what happened now. Regarding the bill of the Left Block, I think it has a result that is understandable but goes the wrong way. This for one reason: what the Left Block wants is to make public a crime that, at the moment, depends on complaint, is a semi-public crime...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u87	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u88	I'm done now, Mr. President. Therefore, the Left Block does not want this crime, practised in the person of journalists, from offenses to physical integrity to be « desistable», but to that end, Mr. Members, only Article 143 (2) should be amended. the Criminal Code. It resolves the matter without moving into Article 132. o
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u89	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u90	Mr. President, just to conclude...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u91	You really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u92	The Social Democratic Party will not break the consensus that may exist at this time. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u93	Mr João Almeida of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u94	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The legal-crinal protection of journalists is a relevant issue that is brought here by two legislative initiatives and that the CDS analyses with great attention. In order to reflect on what is at stake with legislative initiatives, we must first find out what principles they are seeking to protect. In fact, both that of journalistic freedom and that of access to information, and that of the free exercise of the profession, are sufficiently relevant for the consideration of the terms in which each of these principles is fulfilled. Then we must see if there is social evidence of any change, of some evolution, that makes us look at the legal order and, eventually, verify that the answers that the legal order gives at the moment may not be sufficient for the analysis that is made. from the national point of view in relative terms and from the international point of view, it is clear that there are threats, there is cohesion, there is a limitation of freedom with which journalists exercise their profession and there are acts against journalists who must be seen individually, especially when, in the third parameter that we have to have an analysis of this matter, we frame this issue with others who are already protected by our criminal order, in particular in the exercise of other activities which the State has already recognised as sufficiently relevant to benefit from this extraordinary protection. Thus, from our point of view, the conditions for this debate to be held to see whether the best implementation is the one that follows the Socialist Party's project and, therefore, whether we should equate the exercise of journalistic activity with others that are already protected in a special way in our Criminal Code and whose acts practiced against these people are valued above what is normal for the other citizens or whether we can go to the solution of the Left Block, that of the qualification as a public crime of crimes committed against journalists. It is a discussion that makes sense in the field of expertise. Therefore, from the point of view of the CDS, the evidence exists, our legal-penal order may not be sufficient and that is enough reason for the debate to be worthwhile and for us to engage in this discussion in the specialty in order for the Assembly of the Republic to come out of the best solution, a solution that, above all, protects the values that are on the basis of it. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u95	Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u96	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have before us two legislative initiatives which have the same purpose — exactly the one to strengthen the legal-criminal protection of journalists in office or because of them. To give shape to this protection, the authors of the projects — the Socialist Party and the Left Block — propose a change to the Criminal Code in order to qualify as a public crime the aggressions to journalists in office or because of them. The first note to be pointed out in advance is that the Greens follow the concerns and objectives of these two legislative initiatives. We follow up, therefore, because in fact, cyclically but more frequently in recent times, we are faced with cases of aggression to journalists in office or because of them for the most varied reasons, which are certainly understandable and have no consequences from the criminal point of view simply because there is no submission of their complaint. On the other hand, it is also true that the aggressions of journalists take on boundaries that distinguish themselves from the rest because they may call into question the right to information itself. It is therefore the freedom to inform and to be informed because, as we know, they inform a right with constitutional relevance. in this context, we must find responses in the legislative plane that are a contribution for the State to pursue the offender and thus also prevent these aggressions from gaining an even greater dimension, until, in good rigour, the legal good that is intended to protect with these proposed amendments is not only the physical integrity of journalists, it is also the right to information. They are, therefore, two legal assets which are intended to protect themselves with the proposed amendments. To this end, the proposed solutions seem to us fair and appropriate, i.e. by assigning public nature to the crime of aggression to journalists in office or because of them, we are releasing the complaint of the offender so that the Public Prosecutor can move forward with his inquiry and with his criminal action. Thus, and as with the other public crimes, the Public Prosecutor's Office, having knowledge of the facts, would be able to move forward with their criminal proceedings without having to wait for the offender's complaint, as, moreover, happens today. It is simply stated that the Greens look with sympathy at the proposals that are now under discussion and that, in our view, they aim to protect not only the physical integrity of journalists, as I said recently, but also the right to information.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u97	On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I want to say that the CFP shares the constant concerns of these bills and we will vote in favour of them in general, for reasons that I will try to explain further. I would like to make the following amend ment: what Mr Peixoto said is objective. As regards procedural aspects, these draft laws were submitted very recently, they had no technical note, they had no Commission report in general, they had no hearings. More: regardless of the kindness of the proposed solutions, there is no memory that this House is making amendments to the Criminal Code — it is no diploma at all, it is a structural diploma of the legal order — without the hearing of the Supreme Council of the Magistracy, the Attorney General's Office of the Republic, in this case the Supreme Council of the Public Prosecutor's Office, the Order of Advocates and, possibly, in this case, I believe that there will also be a need for the hearing of at least the Regulatory Entity for Social Communication. I therefore believe that there should not be a comprehensive final vote without proper hearings. I believe that this is evidence and that no one will oppose it. I also draw attention to the fact that we are discussing two amendments to the same diploma this afternoon, i.e. the Penal Code. The previous debate also proposed amendments to the Penal Code and even to the same article, Article 132. o. Therefore, in legal terms, there must be some attention to legislate responsibly. In other words, both amendments have to be duly weighted and there must then be, in terms of what is now called 'legistics', the care of articulating the amendments which are made so that we do not encounter an unusual situation, which is that we can come to adopt on the same day two amendments to the same diploma in two different laws, possibly with duplicated republications. So you have to be careful. Having said this, it makes sense to protect journalists in their activity. In addition, there is already a wide list of entities which are considered in Article 132 ( 2 ). that of the Criminal Code as specially protected in its work and, by verifying that whole cast, which is already vast, is not understood because the journalists were also not covered, although there has been a very significant extension of that list, from the origin of the Criminal Code to this day and we do not know if we will stay here. In any case, in the logic of that legal provision, it was no longer understood why journalists were not covered, even having concerns in this area. In conclusion, Mr President, there is indeed the following question: in the matter of safeguarding the independence of social communication before the political power, Portuguese democracy has taken steps; in the matter of guaranteeing independence before the economic power, the steps taken are very insufficient, and that is where there is a very serious problem for freedom of the press in our country. Mr Jorge Campos said recently — and you are right! — there are situations that justify consideration as a public crime because journalists are in a fragile position to file their own complaint, because even employers themselves may not support them.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u99	I ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u100	I'll be done right away, Mr. President. This is a very serious problem. In other words, freedom of the press has an external dimension, but it also has an internal dimension which the concentration of the media seriously undermines, and hence this initiative is justified. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u101	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves spoke on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group for a new intervention and to close the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u102	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I thank all the comments and contributions. It should only be noted that, indeed, the process does not end today. Now, one way is open in the specialty and would even add to the list that Mr António Filipe referred to the Journalists' Union itself, which, I think, will have a lot of relevance to being heard, as has indeed happened in the past. It is not a rare case, not even unique to the occurrence of a debate without the hearings having previously taken place. They will, of course, have a place in the field of specialty. He took advantage of the two purposes of the initiatives on the table. On the one hand, it is not only murder and offences of physical integrity, but it is also, for example, crimes of threat and coercion which are particularly relevant in the context of the exercise of the profession and, on the other hand, make it a public crime, which does not seem to me again, because of the reasons already extended during the debate, a matter which is irrelevant to the operationalization of the criminal protection which is given here. As Mr João Pinho de Almeida said well, and Mr António Filipe too, we look at the list and, indeed, it is very extensive and evokes two origins: on the one hand, the dignity and the role played by each of the actors and on the other, the possible incidence of occurrences to them. in this case, I think the combination of both occurs.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u103	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u104	I will finish, Mr. President. This is the exercise of fundamental rights that structure democracy and, unfortunately, we have reports of the increase in events which seem to justify, more than broadly, the choice taken in this plan and which, I hope, Parliament can validate, even unanimously. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u105	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus come to the end of our agenda today. Before informing us about tomorrow's agenda, I ask Mr Secretary, Mrs Emilia Santos, to give us an opportunity to report on an initiative which has, however, entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, he entered the Bureau and was admitted by Mr. President, Bill No. 696 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Change the territorial limits of the parish of Vila das Aves and Lordelo, the municipalities of Santo Tirso and Guimarães ( PS ).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-14.u107	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the next plenary session is held tomorrow at 10 a.m. and has an extensive agenda. First of all, we will proceed with a joint assessment of draft resolutions 916 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends the recovery of the control and management of TTCs by the State with a view to the guarantee of the universal public postal service ( BE ), 981 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by defending a public, quality and universal postal service and by reversing the privatisation of the CTT(The Greens ), 1040 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — In defence of the postal public service, for the recovery of public control of CTTs — Post Offices of Portugal, SA ( PCP ) and 1178 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote an assessment of the contractual responsibilities underlying the granting in force between the State and the CTT ( PS ). Secondly, we will generally appreciate Bill No. 686 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Ensures the worker's freedom of choice in the receipt of the Christmas allowance and the holiday allowance in twelfths, proceeding to 11. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ( CDS-PP ). Thirdly, we will generally consider draft law No 607 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The seventh amendment is made to Decree-Law No 132 / 2012 of 27 June establishing the recruitment and mobility scheme for basic and secondary teaching staff ( CFP ) together with draft resolution No 1174/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government improve the recruitment and mobility scheme for pre-school and primary and secondary education teachers ( BE ). Fourthly, we will jointly, in general, appreciate the projects of lein.os 540 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Strengthen protection rules against exposure to electromagnetic fields derived from high voltage lines by amending Law No 30 / 2010 of 2 September ( The Greens) and 684 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establish a deadline for the regulation and strengthen the Law on Protection against Exposure to Electrical and Magnetic Fields derived from Lines, Facilities and Electrical Equipment ( First Amendment to Law No 30 / 2010 of 2 September 2010 ) ( BE ). Finally, the joint assessment of petition No 265 / XIII ( 2. a ) — They request the adoption of measures to carry out works at the José Falcão High School ( Association of Parents and Educational Officers of the High School José Falcão High School ) and draft resolutions 647 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government carry out short-term restoration, modernization and preservation of the high school building José Falcão, in Coimbra ( CDS-PP ), 664 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the rehabilitation and requalification of the José Falcão High School in Coimbra ( BE ), 678 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake in the short term the rehabilitation and requalification of the José Falcão High School in Coimbra ( PS ), 679 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — On the urgent rehabilitation of the José Falcon High School in Coimbra ( The Greens), 682 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends the urgent requalification of the José Falcon High School ( Coimbra ) ( PCP ) and 1169 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake short-term rehabilitation and requalification of the José Falcão Secondary School building in Coimbra ( PSD ). at the end of the debate, we shall proceed to vote on the rules of procedure. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of today's work. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 11 minutes.]]
