ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 3 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. Before we move on to the single item on the agenda, which is part of the 15th year debate with the Prime Minister, under Article 224 ( a ). that of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, on social policies, Mr Secretary will proceed to the reading of the dossier. Please, Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau, and the following initiatives have been admitted: the proposals of lein. 64 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Regulates the lophoscopic and photographic judicial identification, which falls to 1. the Commission, 65 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amends the legal arrangements applicable to logging and re-arborrowing actions which fall to 7. the Commission, 66 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates the national land bank and land mobilisation fund, which falls to 7. the Commission, 67 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates tax benefits for forest management entities by amending the Statute of Tax Benefits and the Rules of Procedure of the Registers and notaries, which fall to 7. the Commission, and 68 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter the National Forest Defense System against Fires, which falls to 7. the Commission and draft resolution No 794 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government maintain the Centre for Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation of the South in the public sphere, providing it with a wide range of autonomy and the human, technical and financial resources necessary for its full functioning ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u3	Thank you very much, Mr Secretary, who, as always, was very effective and fast. Let us then begin the fortnight debate with the intervention of Prime Minister Antonio Costa. You have the floor, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u4	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: In 1941, Soeiro Pereira Gomes told us, in Esteiros, the history of a generation of « men who have never been boys». Indeed, this memory remained alive for generations until, in the 90s of the last century, priority was set to combat child labour. at the end of the 1980s, it was estimated that there were still 200 000 children working in Portugal, a value that remained still in 43 000 in 1998, a year after 16 years had been set as the minimum age for work. It is true that Portugal is a very different country today, but it is also true that many of those who still work today are witnesses of the life of this time when poverty and the delay of our economy forced many children and young people to change school for the responsibility of work that would contribute to the support of their family. The true universalization of education, the fight against school dropout and the progressive expansion of compulsory education were of the greatest importance in ensuring more and better opportunities for all young people. The progress made is clear: the rate of schooling, which in the early 1960s was less than 10 % in the 2. o is 3. the basic and secondary education cycles are now approaching 90 % in basic and 80 % in secondary education and the levels of failure and abandonment have consistently fallen since 2000. But this is always an unfinished fight. Therefore, we are committed to universalizing the offer of pre-school education; therefore, we introduced the freeness of school textbooks for all students of 1. the cycle; therefore, in each group of schools, we have a program to promote school success and we create tutorials that allow the personalized follow-up that the new evaluation regime allows and requires. However, we must continue and therefore 10 000 new vacancies in vocational secondary education and greater autonomy of schools in flexible application of the curriculum will be two marks of the next academic year. We must also not forget those who are now 55 years old or older, 70 % of whom have completed at most 1. the basic education cycle and many of these people are still in the labour market. It was to think of the people of this generation who created the Qualifica programme, through which they are intended to be given the opportunity to complete their studies, to improve their vocational training, to be recognized the skills and learnings acquired throughout their lives and, of course, most important, to be fully carried out as people and citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is a generation that, in a whole working life with low wages and reduced social protection, has never freed itself from lack and exclusion. It was therefore crucial to create the solidarity complement for the elderly in 2006 to ensure that no citizen over 65 years of age would live below the poverty threshold in Portugal and also to think about these people who were approved in the Assembly of the Republic the extraordinary update of pensions, which we are about to carry out in the next month of August. It is to bring justice to these men and women who are now setting new conditions for access to early reform, in compliance with the Government Programme and in ongoing dialogue with the majority of parliaments and the social partners. We are engaged in a path that ensures the protection of longer-term contributory careers and guarantees the right to well-being and dignity in the reform of thousands of women and men who, by the beginning of this century, have been deprived of being boys. It is also about repairing the injustice that has been aggravated in recent years, with the double penalty effect of increasing the retirement age and worsening the sustainability factor, which rose from 5, 4 % to 12, 3 %. The seriousness of the penalty that has existed since 2012 must be made clear: a person who has started working at the age of 14, who has a contribution career of 46 years and who retires at the age of 60 is now subject to a 29 % penalty in his pension. No, now I'm not talking about the boys that Soeiro Pereira Gomes told us in 1941, I'm talking about the people who, in my generation, only saw the legal age to work up to 14 years in 1969 and 16 years in 1991. There are many, many thousands who are still in the labour market. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This choice to restore justice by eliminating a penalty is not done, nor can it be done, forgetting the sustainability of social security. In 2007 we introduced the sustainability factor, associated with increased average life expectancy, to ensure the future of the system. [[Protests by PSD MP Pedro Alves.]] The defence of sustainability is based on the diversification of sources of social security financing, which we started with the appointment of the additional IMI (municipal property tax), and the creation of employment, the reversal of migration trends and the development of social income and justice policies, which are essential for creating conditions conducive to increasing birth. This is Mr. President and Mr. And Mrs. Members, the view that we have of solidarity between generations, in which no one over 65 lives below the poverty threshold, in which those who have started working at 12 or 14 years of age can retire to 60 without penalties, in which all those who are in the labour market can qualify and obtain training throughout their lives and in which children now in school can be boys and acquire the knowledge that enables them to be fully implemented as men and women. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u5	We are going to start the debate stage, in which Mr Prime Minister will answer the questions put by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. To put questions, Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, combat inequalities, improve and open new opportunities for all and eliminate the risk of poverty are surely national designs that mobilize us all. We noted that, in his speech, Mr. Prime Minister was looking for the 1960s as the beginning of his analysis, to understand the evolution that the country has undergone in the last 50 years, and he ended up talking about generational solidarity, a matter that is very expensive to us. In fact, we must all always pay attention to what we leave to those who follow us and often harm them with the decisions we make when we have the responsibility to govern. Let the Portuguese people who have suffered, and still suffer, since 2011, precisely with the lack of sense of generational solidarity that governments from 2005 to 2011 had in the conduct of the country's economic and social policy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u7	Mr Prime Minister said, for example, that since 2000 it has been possible to combat, among other things, school dropout in education. That's right, Prime Minister! It was possible to start, in 2000, a way of reducing the dropout rate, which was only stopped—see there! — in 2016, in the first year of its Government. [[PSD applause.]] Since Mr Prime Minister wants to project the effects and consequences of public policies in the medium and long term, this is, moreover, a golden opportunity for Mr Prime Minister to realize that the policy of reversals which he has undertaken, particularly in the sector of education, has already begun to produce harmful effects on people's lives, harmful effects on the lives of young people and boys in Portugal. And, Mr. Prime Minister, this is repeated in many other areas. It is true that from 2011 to 2013 we suffered in the skin the effects of the recovery that the country had to take to overcome the situation of almost bankruptcy. The risk of poverty has risen, but fortunately, it has been declining since 2013 and we want it to continue to decrease, and the same applies to other social indicators. But we will not be able to plan a better future for our country, for our people, if we do not have the ability to bring to the end structural reforms that alter the conditions for the country to develop, make progress and have an economy capable of generating jobs. Mr. Prime Minister, the Government's agenda is completely contrary to all this. Even in these days, there has been another reversal that has passed a little alongside the political debate and on which I would like to question Mr Prime Minister. I am referring to the decision of management, of the parties here, in the Assembly, to support the government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u8	Oh, oh, oh, oh! So, "trap" cannot be said, but "handling" can it already?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u9	... with regard to the reform of urban rent. Management imposed a new freeze on the rents; management gave up — I repeat, gave up! — to implement the income allowance for tenants over 65 years of age or with a high level of disability; management doubled the deadline for applying the New Urban Rent Scheme (NRAU) to non-residential lease; management restricted the criteria for facilitating restoration and rehabilitation of buildings; and management did not want to improve the conditions for the application of the Porta 65 — Youth programme. Mr. Prime Minister, what does the government want with this retreat? What opportunities does the government want to create? What dynamisation of the lease market, what dynamization of historic centres and cities, does the government want to promote with this policy, which is the opposite of what Mr. Prime Minister has just said about the rostrum? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u10	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u11	Mr President, Mr Luís Montenegro, firstly, record that on the issue of reforms for those with the longest careers, you said nothing! It is a subject that is not relevant to you, Ex.a. and on which you had nothing to say. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the lease, we know our position, which is part of the Government's programme, and the only thing I can tell you - is that I, if I were a Member, would have voted in the same way as the Socialist Party's bank. That is what I would have to say on this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u12	Mr Luís Montenegro continues to speak. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u13	Mr Prime Minister, it was a good way to fail to reply, to delegate the answer to your Parliamentary Group. But let me tell you that it was important for the Prime Minister to explain why, by the intervention of his Government and the majority, he is creating this mistrust in the lease market. We are also talking about young people who want to focus on the lands where they are looking for a job opportunity. We are talking about a sector — the construction sector — which was also committed to promoting urban rehabilitation, either in the context of urban space recovery or even in the context of its economic activity. And we are also talking, Mr Prime Minister, about the dynamisation of new sectors of activity, particularly of local housing, which Mr Prime Minister has already started by penalizing in the State budget and which he again penalises with these measures. And do you know what the consequences will be, Prime Minister? You can delegate responsibility for voting to members of the majority, but the responsibility for the consequences is yours and it will be yours too. These measures will have as a consequence the decrease in rehabilitation activity, the decrease in the supply of houses for rent, the increase in the price for lease and the penalization of a growing sector of activity, Prime Minister. Does the Prime Minister have anything to say about this or is he also going to delegate to Members of the majority, since he seems to be having trouble answering? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u14	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u15	Mr President, Mr Luís Montenegro, let me try to be clear. I believe that in the constitutional system the Government does not monitor the Assembly of the Republic, it is controlled by the Assembly of the Republic. Therefore, I would even say that it would be offensive to the Assembly of the Republic if the Prime Minister came here to comment, to monitor and to think about the action of the Assembly of the Republic! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Answer me! Answer me!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u16	I would even say — if you don't take offense, and it's just a little grace —... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u17	... that I come here to condition the parliamentary majority, including the PS bench, would be a case of true democratic claustrophobia, in relation to the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in our constitutional system is on the contrary and that is why these debates take place periodically, it is for the government to come here to account, to say what it has done, what it is proposed to do... [[So say there!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u18	It's to be held accountable to you. If you ask me what the government is doing in the area of urban rehabilitation, I am pleased to reply: 15 days ago I presented a set of measures that will allow you to mobilise EUR 5000 million for urban rehabilitation to dynamize the construction sector, to improve energy efficiency... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...and to create better living conditions in city centers. If you ask me what the government is doing about renting, I will tell you that the government is preparing a package... [[Protests by PSD Member Amadeu Soares Alberaria.]] ... which promotes affordable rent, because it is essential to ensure that the middle class, and in particular the new generations, has the conditions to live in the city centers and does not have to compete in situations of inequality with the high price rise, which results from a positive phenomenon, which is the increase of tourism, especially in large cities such as Lisbon and Porto. however, it is necessary to realize that cities cannot live without tourism and that they die if they only depend on tourism. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, in order to have life, they need to have population and, in particular, young population and, in order for it to exist, there must be incomes, but affordable incomes, and not the regime that resulted from the lease reform that was made in the previous legislation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u19	Mr Luís Montenegro continues to speak. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u20	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I realized that you do not want to answer the question directly... [[PS protests.]] ... but it does not fail to be clear, as I said, that the matter was in the Government's programme, and therefore the government also has that capacity. It was also very clear here that the complicity of the Prime Minister and the Government towards this reversal of management in Parliament was further clarified. But, Prime Minister, I want to ask you two more questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u21	More demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u22	The first question is about the statements by the Secretary of State for Finance, who came to refute the Prime Minister, but it is not the first time — about the conditions under which the business of selling the New Bank was established. But not satisfied, the same Secretary of State gave himself at that ridiculous moment to create a scene at the meeting of the Eurogroup and to have left naked what is the position of the Portuguese Government : in Portugal, speaking as a lion, asking for resignation, the head of the President of the Eurogroup, moreover, even with the comfort of Parliament, which unanimously also did so, and of other organs of sovereignty, but at meetings, be they in Brussels, in La Valetta, in Madrid, there, these lion entries are replaced by exits of mice.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u23	On the path!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u24	And what was an imposition, a demand from the Portuguese Government to apply for resignation, at the meetings there it seems that they have forgotten this and have taken into account, including the Prime Minister, who in Madrid took into account, that this opportunity did not appear. Mr Prime Minister, from the outset, and first of all, Mr Finance Minister, for some special reason, has not participated in this meeting? Then why did a special envoy from the Government, with his approval, not fulfil this request for resignation at the meeting? Thirdly, now, Mr Prime Minister, since, as the news reports say, it was you who was polled into the possibility of the Minister of Finance being able to come to play — and well! — the Presidency of the Eurogroup, why was Mr Prime Minister Spain precisely defending the Spanish candidate? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u25	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u26	Mr. President, Mr. Luís Montenegro, complicity? Oh, my God! The minimum that the Government can do is to be the faithful representative of the majority that made the government viable.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u27	It didn't look like it a while ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u28	That's what we're supposed to do. But we do not invest the roles: the Government does not delegate to PS Members or any other Member the exercise of the duties of the Members. Who delegated to the gentlemen. Members their representation was the Portuguese people. You are representatives of the people, not representatives of the government. And you need to understand and all of you. Members realize that this is the legitimacy of this government: the support of a majority representing the people and representing the citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The original sin of all his reflection is to think that legitimacy is based on the government. It is wrong, Mr President, that legitimacy is based in the Assembly of the Republic and that the Government exists only if it has the support of the Assembly of the Republic to carry out its duties. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I believe that with regard to the statements made by the President of the Eurogroup, a healthy national consensus has been established, which, to my great surprise, I see some uncomfortable going on. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u29	for my part, I only want this healthy national consensus to remain, because those racist and sexist statements are intolerable, unacceptable and do not honor the European Union and those who speak them should not perform the functions of President of the Eurogroup. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's what the government says here and say out there! [[It's not, no!]] [[It's not, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u30	Mr Luís Montenegro, since he follows so closely the interviews I give to the Spanish press, will also verify that in that same interview he said exactly as he had previously said. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] But there is one essential thing: we must have a President of the Eurogroup who is a unit factor and a strengthening of the stability of the euro area. When I was asked by a Spanish newspaper—as I had been asked by the Express for some time—if the Minister of Guindos had a profile with the characteristics to exercise this function, I said yes, and I think so! I think it's one of the people who can do it. [[PSD protests.]] And I say with will, although he is not Portuguese and he is not part of the European political family that the PSD, I believe, is still part of it. But there is one very important thing: it is someone who could positively contribute to making the Eurogroup a unit and strengthening factor of the euro and not a division factor. This is our position,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u31	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u32	...I have no reason to change it and if someone in the PSD is ashamed to coincide with the government's on this matter, I am very sorry, but at least once they have succeeded in the position they have taken. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u33	Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u34	Mr President, Prime Minister, why did the Secretary of State not request the resignation of the President of the Eurogroup at the Eurogroup meeting? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u35	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u36	Mr. Member, the Secretary of State has transmitted, with great firmness... [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] ...and personally, Mr. Dijsselbloman's understanding that what he had said was unacceptable and that he should apologize. Unfortunately, we are all reminded that when the representatives of the Portuguese Government entered the Eurogroup and kneeled to speak with their colleagues. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u37	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u38	And just as surely the Assembly of the Republic will not be in each session approving a vote calling for the resignation of Mr Dijsselbloem, the Government every time it speaks does not have to say what I have already said once,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u39	There! That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u40	...that it was clearly said and that it is an assumed position. [[Congrats from PS MP João Galamba.]] [[That's where you have to say!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u41	Finally, we need to know that the negotiation of the Presidency of the Eurogroup is not done there, nor in that circumstance, and when it is done and where it is done there we will be doing what is necessary to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u42	Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u43	Mr President, Prime Minister, the only thing the government could and should have done did not and you do not explain that. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u44	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u45	Finally, Mr Prime Minister, I take this opportunity to raise a question about the creation of a vehicle for bad credit. Mr. Prime Minister has already said that he was finalizing a solution, he has already said that he was working intensely on a solution and then said that there was a timetable for meetings. I mean, I was intensely finalizing with a calendar. Mr Prime Minister, how many meetings have there been on this subject? Mr. Prime Minister, what was the outcome of these meetings? Mr President — Your time has already exceeded, Mr President. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u46	Mr Prime Minister, what schedule are we going to follow, why have we been in this conversation for more than a year? It is also true to say that one year later the credit, this one, remains badly damaged, but Mr. Prime Minister and his government are increasingly « well-favoured ». This is just talk, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u47	What you're saying is trained!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u48	Mr Prime Minister, you have to tell the country what is in fact the solution you are advocating and how it will achieve it. I would like you to take advantage of the time that you have now and some that might be left to you in this debate to answer. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u49	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u50	Mr. President, Mr. Luís Montenegro, I begin by registering the obvious : on long, zero-contributory careers! , nothing has to say to those who have worked for years and who have the right to move on to reform without any penalty. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, there is something about which you can be right: the problem of bad credit is not to be stopped for a year, it is to be stopped for many years. It's been a year since he started working. That's the big difference. [[PSD protests.]] We have been working in the same way and we have been solving the various problems of the financial system that you understand well not to solve. This is how the BPI today has its problem overpowered shareholder. That's how Millennium is properly capitalized. This is how the sale of the New Bank is in the process of completion. This is how the General Deposit Box is properly capitalised—and only with the capitalization of the General Deposit Box is that an important part of the misdeeded credit has been resolved.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u51	Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u52	As for the vehicle, yes, we are working and we will continue to work until we have a solution that convinces us that it is good for the country and that it helps to clean up a problem of the economy and the stabilization of the financial system. We will do what they have to do, Mr President. You won't lose for the delay. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u53	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u54	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u55	Mr President, it is for a real call to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u56	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u57	Mr President, very quickly, I would ask that the Government and the Prime Minister, through the Bureau, be clarified as to a rule of gold in the parliamentary debate and our democratic system. It is only in Parliament that the answerers to the Members are the government rather than the Members who respond to the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u58	Oh! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u59	Mr Luís Montenegro, there is no time to intervene. And I don't understand what it has to do with the conduct of the works what you're saying.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u60	Mr. President, I will finish. Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, « by the mouth the fish dies». Mr Prime Minister, who did not want to respond on behalf of the PS Members, would now like to respond on behalf of the PSD Members? Oh, my God! That's not it, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u61	Mr President, what you just did was not a genuine request to the Bureau. So I am not going to give an opportunity to respond to an inquiry that did not exist. To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u62	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, had thought not to say a single word about the right,... [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u63	If the right, in the government, has abandoned people, being in opposition continues to fail the country with no alternatives. [[PSD protests.]] Mr Prime Minister, allow me to steal one minute from our debate to inform Mr Luís Montenegro that the draft law submitted by the PSD on young lease, Porta 65, was approved unanimously, such as that of the Left Block and all the others on this matter. In fact, I believe that the PSD voted against the bill presented by the PCP, but this did not prevent its approval. All these bills are being discussed in the field of specialty. We are working on behalf of the right to rent by young people. [[PSD protests.]] Mr Luís Montenegro, I find it extraordinary that you have started your speech by saying that what has been approved has been dropped. And -- look at that! — even the PSD bill has been approved! [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] Let's, yeah, settle the lease questions! Let us, yes, grant housing to the younger! That's why we're here, and we hope the PSD doesn't desert. Mr Prime Minister, this is not the first time that we have talked about this subject here. There are people who have the expectation, who are correct and also anxious — and to whom we must answer — that their problem be solved quickly. I remember that Minister Vieira da Silva promised last year that this would be settled in that same year. Therefore, every day that passes corresponds to a day when we are failing people.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u64	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u65	The government cannot continue to fail the generation that began to work as a child. The first proposal presented by the Government to the social partners was on reforms without penalties for those who were 60 years of age and 48 years of contributing career. In other words, this proposal would be for those who had started discounting at the age of 12. Mr. Prime Minister, at the time, I drew your attention to this issue and I have said that many children in our country began to work with 10, 11, 12 years old, but very few began to count before the age of 14. Therefore, we can only respond to the generation that started working as a child if we give the right to reform to 60 years without penalizing those who started the contribution career before the age of 16. Do you know what the Left Block proposal is — and we don't give up on it? It is the one who is 60 years old and 40 years of career contributory must receive the whole reform. But we are open to negotiating solutions, and the government has spoken about these solutions. Mr Prime Minister, I would like you to ensure what I think I heard in your initial speech, that people who started their careers at the age of 14 will be reformed entirely at the age of 60. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u66	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u67	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, I believe that we share the two principles that have to govern us: that of ensuring the duty of justice to this generation and that of ensuring the future sustainability of our social security system. We are sensitive to the issue and therefore we believe that we need to work to find a solution. But it must be a solution that effectively responds and does not compromise the future sustainability of social security. A person who has been discounted for 40 years, who is reformed to 60 years without any penalty and has an initial maturity of €500 — taking into account the average life expectancy, at 60 years would have 23 years of life ahead — would leave the discovery in social security of €29,678. If you win 1000 € of initial maturity, you will be discovered 57 963 €. It is this pressure on social security that we cannot create. We must therefore find a formula to reconcile what is necessary to reconcile, which is to do justice with respect to the past without compromising the future. on our part, you will have all the openness of mind and, due to the experience of work over these years, I am sure that the Left Block will also have the openness of spirit and constructive spirit to find a good solution. Madam Member, yes, you heard well that in my initial speech you said that anyone who started working at 12 or 14 years of age could retire at 60 years without penalty. If this measure comes into force this year, it will be great, if it will have to be phased out, we must see. Only when we reach the global solution is that we can have a serious and firm commitment to be able to fulfill, as we have done so far, what we have assumed. As you know, in the past, we have often had to step up to meet. We do and we do, and that's the rule of gold we'll keep. We will always meet, perhaps having to phase. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u68	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the word. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u69	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I note an advance in the negotiation, and I am glad that it is, this measure of being able to be attributed to the reform entirely at the age of 60 to those who began to discount at the age of 14, because we know that people who started working with 15 and 16 years had very hard lives and were taken away from childhood. If we're going to phase out, we have to think about the future. As I have already said, the basic position of the Block is that those who are 60 years of age and 40 years of contributing career receive full reform. however, we have to respond to some people already. Mr Vieira da Silva said, very well, that 45 years of contributing career is a very long career and said last year that "we need to have a solution yet this year". Well, as it has already happened, that this year we can ensure that all those who started to have a contribution career at the age of 14 and who are 60 years old receive their entire reform. We have to do this justice to them and we will be able to do more and better, I hope. Mr Prime Minister, the Government's programme contains the diversification of sources of social security financing and the Left Block has never left that debate. Let us now bring justice to the generation that began working as a child and we will be there in the discussion of the State budget to debate the diversification of sources of social security financing. [[Congratulations from BE.]] There is one thing we know: we cannot correct the mistake that was made to these people when they were children. It was a crime to force people to start working so young. So let us do, in old age, the justice that did not do to them in childhood, and thus also allow the generation that is looking for work in Portugal and cannot find it. Early reforms are a way of doing justice to the generation that began working too early, but they are also a way of doing justice to the younger generations who today seek employment and are certainly a way of having a much more productive and capable economy. Mr Prime Minister, in this Budget, justice and social security financing are objectives for which you can count on the Left Block. however, there are two other objectives on which I would like to question it very quickly, being the first on the steps of the IRS. for the first time, it began to lower the tax burden on labour income, but in fact, it is still very high and is less progressive than it was.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u70	He started coming down with us!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u71	That is, someone who earns three times the value of a minimum wage does not pay three times more taxes, pays less. The taxes are not progressive and, therefore, they are not fair. The challenge is to ensure that progressiveity is already being prepared in the IRS, which allows us to restate wages and pensions and allows fiscal justice, to begin correcting the enormous injustice that the right has done to this country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u72	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u73	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, we have already moved forward in the negotiations and we will continue to move forward, because we share the same objective, that of justice and that of sustainability. That's what we have to work on, and that's the equation we have to be able to fill. There are a number of ways to achieve, either by means of phase-up, or by means of financing, the penoness of some sectors, or by way of escalation. But there is one thing about which we have to be right: it is that we are going to do this work, but it is not about having more life beyond the Budget, there is also more life beyond the year 2017. 2017 is only the first year of the rest of our life. We are going to make this reform, and we must do it together, just as we are going to make a reform on the IRS steps. And I will not use the word « start», but rather « continue », because in the two previous budgets we have already taken important steps, particularly in the area of correcting the huge injustice that constituted the family quotient, as we have already contributed to the elimination of the overtax and now we must continue, as planned, with the change of the IRS steps, with a view to improving its progress. This is a work we are doing and it is a work that we must complete in time and time from the next State Budget, because at that time we must clearly start a review of the steps of the IRS. We are committed to this work and, as we have done so far, we will certainly do so. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u74	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u75	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, in order not to fail people, the indicators that people hear every day on television, whether in the economy, in employment or in the deficit, have to translate into concrete achievements for their lives. This is to ensure, this year, the early reforms to which he is 60 years old and began to work as a child. [[Congratulations from BE.]] This is to ensure greater progress in the IRS this year. This is to ensure that we do not fail those who wait for solutions, and expect them now. They need them and they are now in need of answers to their lives. Mr. Prime Minister, the Left Block was very concerned about the position of the European Commissioner who said that the Government had never put on the table the nationalisation scenario of the New Bank. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u76	We are surprised that this has been the case and we want you to explain why. The Left Block will not leave this topic without it coming to the Assembly of the Republic. The resolution of BES and the New Bank was too large a account that PSD and CDS left for this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u77	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u78	In conclusion, Mr President, the delivery of the New Bank to Lone Star is too large an account that this government is leaving for the next one. It's not right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u79	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u80	It is time to put an end to these financial system accounts that each government leaves for the next government. Therefore, the Left Block, on 21, will bring here the proposal that these issues should be voted on in the Assembly of the Republic and bring their concrete proposal for the Nationalization of the New Bank, because that is the proposal that best protects the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u81	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u82	I believe that the Government must answer the question of how it is possible, in January, the spokesman for the economic affairs of the Socialist Party to defend the nationalization of the New Bank, the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister here in Parliament, said that this hypothesis would be open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u83	Mrs. Catarina Martins, you must conclude, because it has exceeded time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u84	... and come now — and I conclude by this, Mr President — the European Commissioner says that, after all, nationalisation has never been equalised. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u85	At the time of the clock in the room at last — 10 minutes are left for 16 hours and not 10 minutes for 15 hours — I give the floor to Mr. Prime Minister to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u86	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, I have said several times here that the Government did not exclude any solution to the New Bank and that we would opt for the one we thought best to ensure the Bank's continuity, the better stability of the financial system and the less penalising taxpayers. These were the criteria we adopted. And we studied all the solutions, including that of nationalization. What I think the Commissioner meant - and she said - is absolutely true - was that the Government has never formalised an application for authorisation with the European Commission to change the conditions agreed by the previous Government in 2014 in order to make nationalisation. And we did not formalize this request, because from the analysis we did, we concluded that this would be a more penalizing solution for the taxpayer than for the taxpayer. Why? Because nationalization meant, of course, two things. Firstly, and for now, it implied that the capitalisation effort involved a disbursement of between EUR 4000 and EUR 4700 million by the State to make nationalisation, because not only would we not have the EUR 1000 million that Lone Star will inject as we would also have the need to inject the capital to meet the necessary ratios today and to cover all future eventualities. That is what would lead us to raise our account to between 4000 and 4700 million euros. We therefore believe that it was not acceptable for taxpayers at the moment to make this capitalisation effort of the New Bank after we secured the effort to guarantee the 100 % public capitalisation of the General Deposit Box — and that was our priority. Secondly, the Nationalization of the New Bank would imply that risks to future eventualities would never be shared with anyone, would never be subject to any limit and would be incur those responsibilities entirely. Therefore, if there are those who feel that we have already assumed excessive responsibilities in relation to the risks of non-compliance with some of the assets, imagine what it would be if, instead of assuming responsibilities with respect to part of the assets, we had to assume possible responsibilities for all the assets. I understand that the solution we have found is the balanced solution, the solution where the State maintains 25 %, thus allowing to recover part of the effort it has made through the Bank's future valuation, which allows for direct management of a set of problematic assets, for which it has a differentiated responsibility, and which allows to ensure that it offers no guarantee for any credit but that it responds, like any partner, to the capital needs like the other partners...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u87	Mr. Prime Minister, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u88	I will now finish, Mr President. This was assured and I think it is a balanced solution in the context of what we have received and in the context of what we had to decide. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u89	It is now the turn of the CDS Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u90	Mr President, Prime Minister, I am delighted to know that you are concerned and attentive about the issue of the sustainability of social security, but I regret that the Socialist Party has not been available in this House last summer to have discussed the issue of the transparency contract as proposed by the CDS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u91	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u92	...the minimum of the minimums so we can all know what we're talking about and what we can count on for each of us. But, in order not to escape the subject that you brought here, and before you ask him the questions that I had already prepared, I wanted to ask you the following: how many people are we talking to 60 years of age, or more, and 48 years of discounts? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u93	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u94	Mr President, Madam Member, the proposal which the Government has put forward, as you know, does not limit to 60 years of age or 48 years of discounts, covers the whole universe of pensioners with a differentiated solution depending on the age and period of discounts. Therefore, it is addressed to all and not only to some. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u95	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u96	Mr President, Prime Minister, I believe that, as long as we do not have specific figures on the universe we are talking about, it is impossible to discuss this subject seriously and in depth.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u97	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u98	So the CDS wanted to bring here a transparency contract so that, year after year, everyone, in their own case, all the people, the whole system and all of us could know what numbers and what discounts and what possible amounts we were talking about.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u99	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u100	So I am again launching this challenge to the Socialist Party. With regard to another issue, which he referred to in his speech, the question of, for example, birth with regard to reforms, I would like to mention, Mr Prime Minister, that I would have listened well to him about the family quotient, not to say that it was a mistake and that it was an injustice, but that it was a very good measure, recognized today in the OECD report as the first step that he reversed the tendency not to consider the relevance of children to the taxes of those who have to bear this expenditure. The government has unfortunately reverted to this reform, but although it has maintained some deductions, and we hope that they can be deepened, so that in this policy, as in so many others, particularly in housing, and the CDS has also presented a reform of the Porta 65 programme to favour young people with children, we can make the difference and sustain a path of growth of birth. But with regard to reversed reforms—and the family quotient was not the only one, last week we had a reversal in the rental reform, which passed from a transitional period of 5 to 10 years. I'm going to excuse myself by saying a lot about this matter, but I just want to ask you something...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u101	It's the weight in consciousness!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u102	Don't! None! Mr Prime Minister, why did you choose to increase the transitional period from 5 to 10 years instead of paying the income allowance? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u103	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u104	Mr President, Madam Member, I have recently had the opportunity to explain to Mr Luís Montenegro that it is not for the Government to monitor the Assembly of the Republic nor to replace the decisions of the Assembly of the Republic. In fact, as far as I am concerned, you know why, because you should not forget what positions I, as President of the City Council of Lisbon, the City Council of Lisbon and the City Assembly of Lisbon, we then passed on to the Minister responsible for rent reform, who penalized, without any care, all tenants over 65 years of age,... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u105	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u106	... by sending to future memory the payment of a subsidy that he knew he did not have budgetary coverage to ensure and to pay. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u107	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u108	Mr President, Prime Minister, he has fled his mouth to the truth: he has no budgetary coverage!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u109	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u110	Mr. Prime Minister does not pay the income allowance, approved in the previous government, because he has no budgetary coverage. It's as simple as this! He refuses to invent other excuses, other reasons, excuse to want to gold the pill; you do not have budgetary coverage!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u111	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u112	unlike the previous government, which included a transitional period of five years precisely to be able to measure and know which universe was being talked about.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u113	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u114	I will tell you what universe we are talking about, Prime Minister: we are talking about 115 000 contracts prior to 1990 and a total of 762 000 housing contracts. It is therefore a small part, which would have an estimated cost of some million euros, but which, of course, Mr. Prime Minister is not available to pay. So what do you prefer? Reform prefers reversal, prefers immobilism...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u115	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u116	... and prefer to do again what has been done for many decades and which has penalized both Lisbon and Porto : leave the city degraded. [[PS protests.]] If you can talk about rehabilitation in the city today, if you can talk about the lease market in the city of Lisbon, that has to do with this reform, and I regret that Mr. Prime Minister does not recognize it and does not comply with what was provided for in the law. You know why? I have some things here to show you that perhaps they show what you may not know about Lisbon. [[At the moment, the speaker showed two figures on the lease in Lisbon]] [[PS laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u117	Show me! Show me!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u118	According to these graphs, for those who said that income was increasing a lot, we can see that the average income value is now equal to 2010. It is true that in some churches it has increased, and that is another matter to deal with, but on average, this is the number. See also, in the second graph, how the number of leases or the number of lease offers went up — and significantly increased! This is the result of the lease reform, which you are compromising when you do not agree to comply with what was provided for in the law and when you prefer to put the landlords in charge of the social policy that should be paid by the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u119	What you wanted was to clear the elderly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u120	It's a shame! And it remains as a mark of his immobilism and as a mark of his little reformist will. [[CDS-PP applause.]] But let me move on to another point, Mr Prime Minister, which has to do with a problem that, I believe, the government has and that it is not to be able to deal well with what is going on, with what is generating wealth, with what is generating income. The government does not deal well with that! The government does not deal well with local housing and, instead of deepening the rent reform and reducing taxation for housing rent, it has resolved to aggravate local housing. There is still another issue that concerns me very much, which is agriculture and rural IMI. There was some news that Mr. Prime Minister and the government were thinking about making the rural IMI worse and I wanted to know if it was the same, if that's true and agrarian tax reform is going to take place. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u121	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u122	Mr President, Mrs Cristas, I already realized that your main concern is to defend your own reform.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u123	No, no! I mean, tell the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u124	It happens that my main concern is to govern the present and the future and not to oppose the government of the past. This is a phase of my life that has passed, I have already made that contribution. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So I opposed the government in its own time, you were also the government in your own time; now it is up to you to oppose the government...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u125	That's what I'm doing!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u126	...and do not defend your government action. Ladies and gentlemen, free yourself from the past, come to the present, because it is the only condition that has to have a lot of future, as it deserves to be. But there is one thing I wanted to say - with all sincerity - I told you at the very moment. In fact, the honourable Member has already said everything, saying that the government has made a reform which provided that the income allowance would be paid five years later. That's right! As your government lasted for four years, you made a reform for the government that will continue to pay the bill. That's actually what the honourable Member wanted to do! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We could do this too, which was to say: from here to five years,... [[CDS-PP and PSD protests.]] Calm down! Don't get mad! But do you know why we don't do it in five years?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u127	Because they're not going to be in the government anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u128	No, no! It's because we're afraid we're gonna have to do what we're gonna do today. That is why we are doing what is necessary to do. What it is necessary to do is to rent affordable rent that ensures the middle class, which ensures young generations access to housing and is to preserve historical stores, is to preserve the right to rent people over 65 years old and is to preserve fundamental institutions, such as the Society of Geography of Lisbon ( SGL ), which cannot be under threat of eviction because a slightly made law has placed them in a situation where they can be dismissed at the end of five years without appeal or any harm. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We also believe that local housing and tourism need to be cared for. But what we know is that if there is tourism is because there is city, and there is only city while there are people in the city and therefore the first priority and the first condition to continue to have attractive cities is to have living cities. If we want to have historic neighborhoods we can't turn historic neighborhoods into a kind of Disneyland. The neighborhoods are only historical as they have the historical dimension of the people who give them soul, give them life and give them hearts. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And that is why it is necessary to reconcile the dynamization of the lease market with the constitutional right of access to housing but also with the right to preserve life in the city centers. Yeah, that's necessary, and that's what we're doing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u129	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u130	Mr President, Prime Minister, I am very proud of the reform that I have done and I must tell you that you, as President of the City Council of Lisbon, did nothing to stop the decline of the population in the historic areas of the city and the areas that were occupied with tourism were deserted by lisboets at that time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u131	It's fake! People have been cleared.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u132	So I'll be here to make sure that happens. Finally, I would also like to ask you about the rural IMI. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u133	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u134	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, as you know, in the last State budget a rule has been adopted which imposes on the Government and, well, that you should do a study on the revision of the rural IMI. What has been announced, and in what we are working on, is also what is planned in the State budget — is the revision of the rural IMI for properties with an area greater than 50 ha, Mrs Deputy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u135	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u136	You still have the floor to Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u137	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, I was as much as I feared. Mr Prime Minister will not ignore that agricultural policy is common, he is European. There are very few instruments in the hands of the Member States to ensure more competitiveness for their agriculture. Perhaps one of these instruments is precisely tax policy. When Mr. Prime Minister wants to take on fiscal policy to selectively aggravate the IMI on properties with a certain dimension, probably ignoring that it is in these large estate areas...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u138	You don't know that there are criteria that make up the agricultural population? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u139	... that is the greatest strength from the point of view of the competitiveness of agriculture in the country, simply throws out all a work that has been done over the past years, with great resilience, with great commitment, from north to south of the country, of farmers and of ownership of all dimensions without exception. So your position is absolutely regrettable and we'll be here to fight it...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u140	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u141	... and to demonstrate that if agriculture in Portugal is competitive, if, year after year, it exceeds targets and expectations of exports, it is because farmers of all dimensions have committed themselves and continue to engage. [[PS protests.]] It is therefore regrettable that you, instead of preserving what is right, particularly in the Ministry itself and in the paying agency that is in the ranking of the best European agency, will destroy all this and perhaps later you will regret it. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u142	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u143	Mr President, Mrs Assunção Cristas, although she insisted on the subject only to clarify the following: agricultural productions are excluded from this update of the IMI.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u144	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u145	Therefore, it does not really have to do with agricultural production, it does not have to do with agriculture, it does not have to do with the moratorium for 10 years on the forest register. It simply has to do with property that is not affecting the agricultural holding, that is what you have to do with it, Mrs. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u146	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u147	Mr President, Prime Minister, it has been very recent that social issues have been discussed. There are a lot of problems that need answers, but there is a fundamental problem in the Portuguese social situation that needs to be considered and not given as acquired. This is the enormous setback in the field of labour relations in the last decade and a half, which have profoundly disbalanced these relationships in favour of the weakest part, the workers. Social security, with an impact on social benefits and reforms, on general social rights, particularly on health and education, also requires special attention and should be the cause of their concern to us. This means that we cannot accept as good the situation we have in the country. Some days ago, although having been ‘wine dog’, according to the ILO (International Labour Organization) report on wages, which reflects the return on labour income, Portugal is from countries where the weight of wages in the economy has decreased, is one of the countries where the proportion of wages in national income has fallen from 60 % to 52 % in 2014. That is why it is not surprising that we continue to beat for the recovery of wages in Portugal, in particular for the increase in the national minimum wage. This is the result of the deregulation of labour, the precariousness of labour ties, the amendment, to the worst, of the Labour Code that has been pursued in recent years, the attack on the destruction of collective bargaining, which, from our point of view, needs to be urgently considered. What has been announced in advance for us must be fulfilled. So the first question I wanted to put to you is the right to reform without penalizing workers with long careers, with 40 years of discounts, as we have defended and we defend again. The Government's proposal distorts the generality of workers in this situation. They believed, Mr. Prime Minister, that they were not going to have to work to the limit of their forces and their lives, or, if so, they believed in their words and positions in previous 15-year debates. It may be said that they misread it, but, and I know what I am talking about, is a feeling of deep disappointment at the proposal that has been put forward. That is why we are asking where the government is available to find a more just solution. He spoke, and well, here, of the children who didn't have time to be boys, it's true. I hope that the government will allow those who have aged to have an old age worthy of reform without penalties. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u148	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u149	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, the proposal is under consideration both with the parties in the Assembly of the Republic and with the social partners. As I explained, it is not a closed proposal and we have two absolutely fundamental principles for us: to ensure as much justice as possible and to ensure sustainability as is essential to the future of social security. What happened in recent years was double penalty, either based on the increase in retirement age or the fact that the sustainability factor has increased significantly. If we do a line of what would be the evolution of the sustainability factor with the 2007 reform and the entorse that was introduced with the changes in 2012 and 2013, we will verify that the sustainability factor almost doubled its weight in penalizing the reforms and this worsened the situation of injustice. These are the lines we need to guide ourselves. Justice is more urgent than ever, given the double penalty that people are being victims, but ensuring the future sustainability of social security. I think we have to work, and we have room for it, to find a good result that gives people a response and that, as you said, assures those who could not be boys who could at least be elderly with dignity in their lives. This is why the solidarity complement has already been introduced for the elderly and cuts in the solidarity complement for the elderly have been eliminated. That is why we approved, with the CFP, in the last State budget, the extraordinary increase in pensions, which will enter into force in August. That is why we reject and eliminate the cuts in pensions and that is why we will also correct the penalty that exists in anticipation of the reform, taking into account the time of contributing careers and the age at which people started their activity. We need to take that into account and we'll take that into account. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u150	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u151	Mr President, Prime Minister, I appeal to you: when you are deciding on this matter, for example, think of someone who started working at the age of 14, and that at 60 you already have 46 years off for social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u152	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u153	It is a concrete example that should lead us to reflection and to the search for a solution. There are other social problems, as I said at the beginning of my question, and let me highlight here the issue of the health sector. There are serious problems resulting from the way human resources management has been done that affect the entire Public Administration, namely the question of links, cuts in wages, career freezes, replacement of overtime payments in the health sector, is not advanced in the readjustment of the lists of users of family doctors or have not yet rehabilitated buildings. There are lack of doctors and health professionals, lack of working conditions, lack of conditions of care and lack of urgency. The first consequence is for professionals but the hardest consequence is for the users themselves of the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u154	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u155	Therefore, there is increasing conflict and consequences, such as those living in the Barreiro-Montijo Hospital Center, which recently brought to the street, in a protest march, more than 1500 users, or which led to the paralysis of the nurses of ACES (Asgroups of Health Centres ) in Lisbon North by hiring professionals in need or that of the operational assistants, other health technicians, of the population of São João do Campo against the prospect of closure of the health extension and the undersigned delivered in Espinho, with more than 10,000 signatures, by reopening the hospital emergency. A medical strike is now announced. The museum workers will also resort to this superior form of struggle. That is why I ask you, with a constructive but concerned sense, Prime Minister: for when is a decisive intervention in solving problems affecting access to health care in the National Health Service? We have great social concerns, labor concerns, but this health thing tells the Portuguese people a lot. It's in our hands we get a strong and better National Health Service. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u156	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u157	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, there is one thing I would like to assure you: when we are deciding on reform issues, we will take into account the future of the social security system, but we will also take into account the past of those who started working in conditions in which, fortunately, they are no longer working. And I don't have much difficulty in that, because I'm part of a generation that lived in 1969, the date on which the age limit was updated to start working from 12 to 14 years old, and I was already a Member, when in 1991 that limit was increased to 16 years old. Therefore, I have no difficulty in having this in mind, because I know many people of my generation, many old school colleagues, who had precisely had to stop studying to go to work and certainly have the right to retire earlier, because they did not have the opportunity that I had to be able to complete university studies. I have no difficulty in taking this into account, Mr Commissioner, nor do I have any difficulty in taking into account the needs of the National Health Service. I don't have myself, you don't have Mr. Minister of Finance and much less Mr. Minister of Health, because every day we have to deal with and deal with the deep deficiencies that exist in many social services, whether in health, education, security forces. That is why we have been making an effort in these sectors, and a significant effort, Mr President. Only last year, in the health sector, 4600 new professionals entered, of which 1400 new doctors, 2000 new nurses and 1000 new professionals, including assistants and diagnostic technicians. The problem is that these numbers, being immense, are still insufficient to respond to the many needs that have been accumulated. But what we have for certain and for sure is that, in order to continue to move forward safely, without retreating in the replacement of rights and in the proper functioning of public services, we have to take steps that go according to the size of the leg and in very firm soil. This, in order not to commit any nonsense that gives the opportunity to those who are always on the lookout to turn back the progress measures that we have been achieving throughout this year and a half. No, we will not give them an opportunity to reverse what we are doing and what we need to consolidate so that it will be a definitive and future guarantee for the health of all Portuguese people. That's what we need in health. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u158	You now have the floor to Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u159	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, when we talk about long careers and comprehensive reforms, there is a word and an idea that has to guide us, and this idea is of justice, to do justice. I believe that the Prime Minister will agree that 40 years of contributing career is a long-term contribution career. But Mr Prime Minister says this: "But there is another factor that we need to take into account, which is the sustainability of social security." Well, Prime Minister, let us look at the joint position we have signed, which puts us to work precisely on this matter. If we know that this sustainability can be affected by unemployment, precariousness, levels of emigration, exemptions and discounts in the TSU, which is a matter that we definitely have to attack, by not diversifying sources of social security financing—and we respond to this in our joint position, notably by assigning part of the tax on gross value added—we must put ourselves to work, Mr. Prime Minister, just to reinforce these aspects, but never to deny justice to the people who have worked so much and so much. Mr Prime Minister, in this debate I cannot fail to mention the practical matter of the General Deposit Box, what is happening and generating protests by the population, which is the closure of counters. Even today we had the opportunity to witness a strong protest of the population in Almeida, which will be without its dependence on the General Deposit Box, having to move to Vilar Formoso to access the services of this bank. We have another example here at the door, specifically in Oeiras, in Tagus Park — and there are over 800 workers, Mr. Prime Minister, and many companies — where one of the counters of the General Deposit Box is expected to close, the only one of that parish. Therefore, Prime Minister, what we understand is that this closure of counters is, in fact, clearly damaging populations, generating a strong protest and giving rise to the installation of other banks, that is, what I told you the other day, Prime Minister, is making the General Deposit Box smaller to give space to the installation of other banks to do their business. I would therefore like an answer from the Prime Minister on this matter. There is another issue that I would like to raise, which the authorities have already raised with some concern and which we must take into account if we want to be serious about this. The law that determines the end of the slaughter in canis is to be regulated—is it not true, Prime Minister? Oh, my God! — and there are authorities that say that, in view of what is required, they do not have funding to enable them to comply with the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u160	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u161	I will finish, Mr. President. We do not want to delay deadlines for the enforcement of the law that ends with the slaughter in cans and, in this sense, Mr Prime Minister, or we feel that, in fact, there are authorities that do not have this funding or "let us put our heads on the sand", cheerful and content, and that cannot be the case.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u162	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u163	It is therefore important to know what the government will do to ensure conditions for authorities to comply with that law. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u164	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u165	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I thank you for your questions. With regard to this matter, we are regulating the diploma that prohibits the slaughter of animals and, in the next month of May, the draft regulation will be sent to local authorities and, in particular, to the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, for assessment, so that the law can begin to be applied generally throughout the country and in the different municipalities already in the second half of 2017. Secondly, with regard to the banks of the Box, I believe it is essential, of course, to ensure that the General Deposit Box, which has benefited from the very strong capitalisation that has now been made, has the conditions for not needing new capitalisations in the future and can, on the contrary, resume what is essential for its sustainability and for there never again to be any attempt to privatize, which is to be a bank that ensures profitability. The Caixa network is very extensive and what the administration has sought to do, and has done, in the restructuring programme that it presented to the government, as the shareholder's representative, is to find a balanced solution that takes into account that, increasingly, there are new habits of using banking services by customers, taking into account the evolution... [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] ... of people's relationship with banks. I know that the administration of the Box has been considering the situations and the two examples you have given, Mrs. Member, are, in fact, quite different, because one thing is the circumstances existing in Almeida, another is the conditions existing in the Taguspark.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u166	So what? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u167	I think that common sense should prevail and we have confidence in the administration of the Box to know how to evaluate each situation in particular. As far as the question of justice is concerned — and we have already said so — was even the main theme of the intervention I made in the rostrum, there are situations on which there is no doubt that we have the opportunity to move forward now without compromising the future of the social security system. I recently gave the example of children who started working at the age of 12 and 14 who are now 60 years old and must be able to retire without any kind of penalty. This does not mean that, for others, their respective contribution careers are not taken into account. These should be taken into account and also the contribution careers of those who are 40 years old, because the truth is that 40 years already represent a long contribution career. But the treatment that these careers will have, and that they may have in the circumstances that exist, is not the same as that which has a longer career, 46 or 48 years of age.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u168	You've outlived the time you had, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u169	We must therefore find a good balance between the satisfaction of justice and the guarantee of the future sustainability of social security. This balance point is not easy, but we have to find. And there are many difficult issues ahead of us...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u170	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u171	... and that we have to resolve in this matter, because I also know well that many people have much more effective work than contributing career, because much of the work they did was not subject to discounts. This is also a difficulty in adding to all others.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u172	You must conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u173	That is why the historical repair of justice is difficult, but we will be able to do it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u174	Mr André Silva has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u175	Mr President, Prime Minister, Portugal finally has a National Strategy for Biological Agriculture, an action plan developed by the Government, which also included the monitoring and extensive contributions of the NAP. A very important step for the country, since we were the only ones who did not have a plan with clear objectives for this way of food production, which is more sustainable and healthier. We therefore want to point this out and congratulate the Government on starting to do what this sector has been asking for a long time ago. This is a production sector that is underdeveloped by the almost lack of support and attention of the State. This is the agricultural line of the future, the one that has the greatest potential for growth and that every day earns the confidence of Portuguese consumers. That is why it is urgent to reorient national production and to counter the import curve. But, Prime Minister, a small detail of all importance is missing: a policy of commitment and more and more and more institutional support. Like other priorities and other events, Portugal needs a greater public involvement of the Government, particularly the Minister for Agriculture. It is essential that the Minister for Agriculture also places his recognised capacities, energy and commitment to organic farming. It is essential to promote it personally and publicly to strengthen the importance of its production and to appeal to its consumption. Mr Prime Minister, are the Government and the Minister of Agriculture in a position to ensure that it is your commitment to invest financially but also institutionally in organic agriculture?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u176	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u177	Mr President, Mr André Silva, I begin by protesting that only the Minister of Agriculture wants, not the Prime Minister, to strive to promote organic farming. I also have a right to health, I also have a right to quality food, and I would therefore like you to invite me to this challenge. But the Minister of Agriculture has already challenged me and we will indeed make this effort. And we are going to make this effort, because it is essential for agriculture, for consumer health and so that we can have greater sustainability in our country. That's a joint effort. We have the strategy, we have the goals and we will work to execute them. So, Mr President, come with us and we will be three of us already pulling for organic farming. [[P.S. and P.N.A. applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u178	You still have the floor to Mrs. Sonia Fertuzinhos.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u179	Mr President, Prime Minister, the PSD had no say in this debate on early reforms and preferred to use most of its time to speak of the President of the Eurogroup. The essential issue in this debate and which does not need graphics, Mrs. Christian Assumption, is the difference between the PSD and the CDS, which in the Government have failed all the goals, every year, impoverishing the country, and this government and this majority, which achieve all the goals,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...reducing income, valuing wages, combating precariousness, strengthening the social state and uniting the Portuguese instead of dividing up as you did. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u180	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u181	Who put the country in bankruptcy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u182	Mr. Prime Minister, what the PSD and CDS do not understand, but the country increasingly understands and supports, is that it was possible, in 2016, to recover pensions, wages and social benefits and, at the same time, to reduce the deficit, which allows us to leave the procedure due to excessive deficit, and that still today has been revised down again.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u183	He had to be captivated in education, in health, in transport...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u184	This right continues, in 2016, without the ability to understand, but the country increasingly perceives and supports, that it is possible to define as priority support for young families with children, with the dual objective of supporting birth and reducing poverty,... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u185	... by strengthening the family allowance for children up to 3 years old,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u186	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u187	...remaining the 4th. the escalation of family allowance and, at the same time, continue in the trajectory of consolidation of public accounts and the sustainability of social security. They still do not understand and know what to say, the PSD and the CDS, when this government and the majority prove that it is possible to support younger people with the freeness of school textbooks or employment support and at the same time to support older people with the extraordinary increase in pensions, but also with the revision of the early retirement scheme, in a framework for strengthening conditions for more sustained economic growth not only in 2017 but also in the future. Prime Minister, imagine that the PSD and CDS are even completely lost when they realize that in December 2015 31 % of the Portuguese considered that this government would last the entire legislature and that only 61 % is not and that today 83, 2 % of the same Portuguese consider that this government will actually last four years and that only 13, 8 % is that they do not understand that it is not going. That's for all of this, Prime Minister and Mr and Mr. Members, it is because the country and the lives of people improve, because they regain dignity and, at the same time, because Portugal's credibility in the European Union is strengthened, because Portugal is in the European Union with a strong head, refusing subservience and seeking alliances, of course, with the countries of the south, that the PSD and the CDS could not continue to be government and this parliamentary majority had to have a sense of responsibility to be an alternative of government, as it has done and does every day. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What the PSD and the CDS do not say in this debate, but that it was clear in their electoral programme, is that, if they were government, they would be implementing exactly the same policies that they have implemented in the past four years.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u188	Don't doubt it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u189	So today, for example, we would not be discussing the revision of the early reform regime. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This review is not only necessary for a question of justice, it is also necessary because the changes introduced to the regime in the previous government would condemn these people, those workers who had not had a childhood, a pension and a life of poverty that we could not let happen. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today, the difficulty of the right, in the Assembly and in the country, is that we can not only compare the alternatives, that is, what we defend and what the PSD and the CDS defend, but above all we can compare results. These results explain why the PSD and the CDS could not continue to be government and give us an added sense of responsibility to continue our efforts to guarantee the dignity of the Portuguese and to guarantee a framework of present and future sustainability. I therefore ask you, Prime Minister: what conditions do you think it is important that we continue to meet in order to continue in this effort, which guarantees not only our present but also our future? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u190	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u191	Mr President, Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos, I spoke about those who were children many decades ago, but we also have to look at those who are children today. And one of the most negative balances of the past four years was the brutal increase in child poverty.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u192	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u193	That is why today one of the key priorities we must have is to combat child poverty. This month came into force a fundamental measure for this fight, which is the new system of family allowance approved here during the discussion of the last State budget. And for the first time this month will be paid to families, with retroactive effects to January, the new provision of family allowance as designed here in the Assembly of the Republic, on a proposal from this Government. This increase in family allowance for the most needy families, this extension up to 36 months of the scheme which was only applicable to families for 12 months in paragraph 1. the step and the increase that is made to single-parent families are, in fact, essential tools in order to improve family conditions and effectively combat child poverty. If we really want to ensure the sustainability of social security, we must diversify the sources of funding, that is true! , but we also have to have another social model, where it is possible for people to see to increase their incomes and have better conditions to reverse the demographic curve and we can improve their birth. Christmas does not increase with birth allowances, it is done by improving the living conditions of families, from then on, with their maturity and then with support for families that have children. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the lasting sustainability of our social security system. For this reason, free school textbooks and the new family allowance scheme are essential measures for families to be able to form and have children, which is a condition of sustainability for social security. What is in fact blocking the right now is that this programme for the replacement of rights, the improvement of living conditions, the improvement of the income available to families, which has put consumer confidence to a maximum that we have not had since 2000, has been accompanied simultaneously by the strict implementation of the budget which allowed us to have the best ever deficit in our democracy last year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The truth is that yesterday we saw the unsuspecting Council of Public Finance recognize two extraordinary things: firstly, that this reduction had been made mainly on the side of expenditure and not at the expense of the tax escalation, as had happened in previous years; and secondly, that for the first time there was a reduction in the tax burden. That is how we managed to reduce the deficit last year. More: today we were informed by the National Institute of Statistics that we reviewed the first finding they had made of last year's deficit and this time the review was not high, it was low, and instead of 2, 1 %, the deficit we obtained last year was even 2, 0 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the result that hurts right. This is what we must do to ensure that this exercise is a sustainable exercise: the replacement of rights, the improvement of living conditions, the improvement of income and the sustainability of our public finances. We cannot see these two objectives again as antagonistic, they have to be complementary, because they only reinforce each other. Only with stable public finances can we have a stronger social state. But it is essential to have greater social cohesion, greater income, greater job creation so that we can have sustainable public finances in a healthy way, not at the expense of blind cuts and the collective impoverishment of the population. This is the way we have to go. The most important data of all I have seen so far, to be honest, was the data revealed by the Eurobarometer, according to which, from 2015 to 2016, the Portuguese confidence in the institutions and in particular in the Government and Assembly of the Republic doubled. And why? Because for the first time, we have clear and fulfilled commitments, and that is what strengthens confidence between political institutions and citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u194	Even in the time available to the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr João Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u195	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government has transposed the 500-day term of office. The first thing I would like to point out—in fact, I am not tired of stressing in all circumstances, until it is a given objective, simple and indisputable—is that the Portuguese are living better than they were a year and a half ago. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Portugal is better than it was a year and a half ago. This particular objective, which has to do with the balance of public accounts, deficits, macroeconomic indicators, employment, regional asymmetries and social climate, as seen today in this debate, is not exclusively, but largely, of the political strategy followed by the Government of PS, of Antonio Costa, influenced, of course, and well, by our left-wing partners, PCP, Block of Left and Ecological Party « The Greens » in support of this government solution. It is a left-wing government solution that has put an end to a deliberate policy of impoverishment, a policy of radical and irrational austerity which has made life difficult for Portuguese and national companies, with no positive consequences, on the contrary, in the public accounts. The political change carried out with this solution of government, under the leadership of Prime Minister Antonio Costa, was received by the skepticism of many in Portugal and Europe. They didn't think it was possible to set up such a change! I'm proud I've never been among those who didn't believe! On the contrary, since the first hour I have defended a left-wing solution, such as the current government of Antonio Costa,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... in a framework — and it is important to emphasise — that does not call into question any of the international commitments we are bound to in the European Union, but not only. I think it is important to note here the importance that the example of the Portuguese solution is having in the life of a European Union going through one of the most serious crises of its existence. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u196	With a serene firmness, not generating useless conflicts, the position of our Government, and especially the Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, and institutional cooperation with the President of the Republic have put Portugal in line with the changes that will have to take place in the European Union. The project of a Europe of peace, freedom, tolerance and solidarity is the most important project launched in the world in the last century. It cannot be allowed to die, much less by the hands of an international financial system, wild, faceless, deregulated, dominated by abutres. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The need for changes in the European Union and its institutions, which are controlled by eurocrats, which are regularly paid, and which are disengaged from people's real problems, is imperative. in this plan, I believe that our Government and our Prime Minister have played an important role, which it would be unfair not to recognise. I dare say, even, that the world of dangers and uncertainties in which we are living today needs such a special contribution from the way of being Portuguese that our Government PS, of António Costa, supported by the left, has played such a strong and quiet role. The uncertainties resulting from the last American elections, the Brexit, of the ongoing international conflicts, particularly in the Middle East, and what can happen in national elections in Europe require more and more of this. The ability to dialogue and find new solutions to old problems. The remarkable work, highlighted internationally by the positive, of the peace missions of our Armed Forces and security, on several continents, and the professional, discreet and effective posture of our intelligence services are, among other things, good examples of this quality and excellence of Portugal, in which our Government, the PS Government of Antonio Costa, with the support of the left, has been committed.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u197	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u198	Portugal and Europe need to continue. Continue, Prime Minister! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u199	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister Antonio Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u200	Mr President, Mr João Soares, thank you very much for your encouragement in continuing our work with you. And with the entire historical truth of being Mr. Deputy a believer, before believers, about the goodness of this government solution. In fact, this is a solution that has proved to ensure political stability, which has fulfilled those that are international commitments, the commitments that the PS Electoral Programme contained, the commitments that were made with the Greens Ecological Party, with the PCP and with the Left Block, in a context that is indeed very hard and difficult. But we must continue, because in fact the world needs Portugal, because Portugal has a unique capacity, cemented over centuries, in bridge building, which is most necessary at this time, in which fashion is building walls. And the walls that have also collapsed in this Assembly of the Republic demonstrate well that what is essential to strengthen citizens' confidence in democratic institutions, to block populist drifts, is that citizens know, understand and be able to trust that, however difficult the problems, there is always an alternative to the only solution they want to present to us. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is an immense achievement, which values democracy, because democracy is made of choices and today citizens know that they have more choices at their disposal than the choices they have been told for years to be possible as a government solution. The truth is that these choices have proved to be successful. We have better results in the economy, we have better results in employment, we have better results in the management of public finances, we have better results in social policies, and this necessarily strengthens confidence. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]] Is it hard? Of course it is! We have had many years, years too, without speaking among ourselves, without making the effort to solve problems together and we have differences — deep, identity — that are part of each other’s identity, which are sometimes insurmountable. But the truth is that it has always existed and, before the leaderships of the parliamentary groups of the PCP, the Left Block and the Greens Ecological Party, I would like here to recognise that, over the last 500 days, I have always been able to find a constructive spirit, commitment and good faith in finding concrete answers to the problems inherited, to avoid new problems and to give concrete answers to our citizens. This is the effort and joint work that we must continue to do, honoring the joint positions we assume, because the result that the Portuguese ask us is successful in this commitment, and it is for this success that we have to work for and for which we work every day. Thank you very much, Mr. João Soares. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-12.u201	We are at the end of today's agenda. The next plenary meeting will be tomorrow at 10 a.m. and a debate will be held with the Minister of Internal Administration under Article 225. the Rules of Procedure, to which the voting period will be followed. Good afternoon, everyone. The session is closed. [[It was 16 hours and 55 minutes.]]
