ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. Before we enter the agenda period, I give the floor to Secretary Duarte Pacheco, who, unfortunately for him, will proceed to the reading of the dossier. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who have taken part in the Bureau, and were admitted by Mr President, the following legislative initiatives: Bill No 91 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establishs the programme for the extraordinary regularization of precarious links, which falls to 10. the Commission ; drafts of lein. 565 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Rights of end-of-life sick persons ( CDS-PP ), 566 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Extends the father's exclusive parental leave period and establishes equal parenthood in the event of adoption, including the adoption by couples of the same sex, and the use of PMA ( BE ) techniques, which falls to 10. the Commission, in connection with 1. the Commission, 567 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Ensures that persons with visual impairments have the right to vote through the Braille system ( NAP ), which falls to 1. the Commission, in connection with 10. the Commission ; draft resolutions Nos 955 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Greece and Andorra ( President of the HR ), 957 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — To deepen the Statute of Ultraperiphery ( PCP ), which falls to 4. the Commission, 958 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — by reopening the basic emergency service at Espinho Hospital ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 959 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government that the contract be denounced with the SIRESP Society, SA, by rescuing to the State the Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks of Portugal, on behalf of the public interest and ensuring the safety and protection of populations ( BE), 960 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of rapid and urgent measures for the decontamination of the houses of the Mines of Urgeirice ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 961 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Replacement of the buildings of the Basic School 2, 3 Avelar Brotero, of the Group of Adelaide Cabette Schools, in Odivelas ( BE ), which falls to 8. the Commission, and 962 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Exemption from moderate rate payment in cases of legionella outbreak ( The Greens ), which falls to 9. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. Let us begin the agenda, which consists of the debate on draft resolution No 959 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government denounce the contract with the SIRESP Society, SA, by recovering to the State the Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks of Portugal, on behalf of the public interest and ensuring the safety and protection of populations ( BE ). For the opening of the debate, Mrs Sandra Cunha, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Members : The SIRESP, the Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks of Portugal, was created in order to meet the requirements of operational missions for the protection and security of populations. Therefore, it has provided the security forces, the protection and emergency forces of a national service to cover a network of communications that puts all these connected entities together in situations of protection and security operations. This is a national coverage service with specific characteristics: interoperability, the confidentiality of the operation and the quality of communications. As I said, the primary objective is to allow the network communication of various actors in security and protection operations, actors who are several: the National Civil Protection Service, the National Firefighters Service, the Volunteer Firefighters of the Humanitarian Associations, the Portuguese Red Cross, the Republican National Guard, the Public Security Police, the Judicial Police, the Army, the Navy, the Air Force, the National Institute of Medical Emergency, among many others. This is, therefore, for the country, the most important system for the protection and security of populations. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a system that has consistently failed. It is a system that, over the years, has fallen short of the country's needs and has also fallen short of what the consortium that implemented it and managed would have to do. The communication failures, we understand, are not at present and do not relate to the tragic events that took place in Portugal a few days ago. There are cyclic reports, over the years, since its implementation, of failures, problems, intermittents, occurred with the SIRESP, and those who claim it are those responsible for the civil protection chain and the various operations that are on the ground. in the simulations of Santarém, Lisboa and Setúbal, insufficiency, fragility and communication failures and information management were reported. In 2013, in the fires that also brought tragic consequences for the life of two firemen of Carregal do Sal, several failures and interferences were reported, recorded and criticized...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u5	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u6	... and in the simulation, about the 25 years of the fire in the Chiado Warehouses, in Lisbon, were again reported communication difficulties, in a fire, this time in the urban environment, in full capital. We also know that there are several so-called "dark areas" of SIRESP, places where it does not work: inside lifts, underground garages or in the most remote locations of the country, precisely those where a network emergency system is absolutely crucial, because they are also the most affected or most likely to be affected by forest fires. But still in 2016, in the fire of Sardoal, failures were also recorded and, according to the records, more than 11 hours were required for the national emergency and security network to be operational again. Therefore, the problems reported and reported in relation to the fire of Pedrogão Grande are not unique, a few days ago. The reports of the populations, but also of the authorities and of the various operational authorities, are, above all, multiple and distributed in time and space. The casebook for the operation of SIRESP cannot continue to be normalised nor can it be current practice. A system designed to network all entities and all operators with responsibilities in the protection and security of populations cannot in any way fail at the most critical times—we cannot admit, we cannot accept! — precisely where this system is more essential for the protection of populations. Mrs. Members of the House : It has come back for more than a decade since the implementation of the SIRESP, we believe that this is the time to make a serious and rigorous balance sheet on this private management of the Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks of Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u8	the chronological and in-depth analysis of the fundamental objectives of the constitution and implementation of the SIRESP results in a fundamental and obvious conclusion: it is that the private management of SIRESP has proved ineffective and incompetent...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u9	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u10	... and is therefore unable to guarantee the safety and protection of populations, to the obvious detriment of these and the State. [[Congratulations from BE.]] In the face of these circumstances and the challenges facing the country — the fruit, indeed, of climate change, with extreme and unexpected climate events ahead of us — it is essential to act now. And it is absolutely strategic for our country to ensure that the private and incompetent management of SIRESP is replaced by competent management and that it is guided solely by defending the interests of Portuguese and Portuguese, and we know that this guarantee can only be ensured by the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u12	The implementation and management of SIRESP has been driven by privates more by business than by the protection and security service to populations, which is not unusual. This is a public-private partnership, which, in fact, cost the State five times more than what was originally planned and what it cost to ride.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u13	A robbery!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u14	The costs are much more than those of the '80 million' or '80 million around' which Mr Oliveira and Costa acknowledged in this same House that they had cost the SIRESP, or of the '100 million to 150 million' originally provided for by the working group that studied the implementation of this system, which ended up costing about 500 million, cost five times more to public coffers than it should have cost. And every year it is making profits for the private, every year it is also making profits of millions of euros for the shareholders of this private consortium: it was EUR 3, 749 million in 2015 and almost 7 million in 2016. The State cannot continue to pay and make profits to private individuals for a management that has proved incompetent and for a service that does not serve the main objectives for which it was designed and contracted. [[Congratulations from BE.]] in this matter there cannot be room for business. The objective, unique and paramount, can only be the safeguard of populations and public interest. The Left Block therefore calls on the Government and all parliamentary groups to defend the intransigent interests of this public interest and the essential guarantee of the protection and security of populations and to accompany us in this need and in this urgency, which is to rescue from the hands of the privates a system of emergency communications that is absolutely crucial and strategic for our country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u15	There are six entries for requests for clarification to Mrs Sandra Cunha, to whom, according to the information reached at the Bureau, she will respond in sets of two. in the first group of two questions, you have the floor, first Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, of the PSD, and then Mr Jorge Machado, of the PCP. Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD is facing this and all the debates on the tragedy of Pedrogão Grande, Castanheira de Pera and other municipalities with great apprehension for the tragedy that happened but with the greatest tranquility. We are available for any solution, for any measure, for any initiative aimed at improving the forest fire prevention and control system. It was also because the PSD proposed to this House — and it saw its initiative being approved — an independent technical committee to clarify technical responsibilities and the PSD will then determine the political responsibilities, and I pray to those who are in need. But what we cannot understand is the ambiguous position, I would say more, almost politically hidden, of the Left Block. The Left Block, once again, came here today the Plenary pretending it is a party of the opposition, but it is not. It is an almost pathetic attempt, Mrs Sandra Cunha! The Left Block, together with the PCP, but the Left Block, above all, is the most faithful support of this government. This government is also yours. Madam Member, let us be clear: the mistakes, the failures, the failures of this government are your mistakes, your failures and your failures. And even this SIRESP, after two years of government of management, is also your SIRESP. [[PSD applause.]] That is why, Mrs Deputy, it makes no sense that they are concealing themselves from opposition when they are the firmest underpinning of this management. In addition, this draft resolution transcends ideological obsession. How is it possible — I ask you, Member of Parliament — at a time when the people fear for their lives, when the Portuguese question whether the fire prevention and combat system is able to defend their lives and their property, the Left Block should come to raise an ideological question, namely which is the property of the SIRESP, if it should be private, whether it should be public? Mr Member, does it make any sense, you think it is consistent, you think it is understandable to say from the SIRESP what Muhammad did not say or did not dare say from the bacon and then want to rescue the SIRESP to the state? So, Mrs Deputy says that the SIRESP doesn't work, doesn't it serve and wants to pass it on to state ownership? Why didn't you ask Dr. António Costa in the 15-year debates?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u17	We asked! Wasn't he here? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u18	Why has the Left Block, so far, always been silent about this matter? [[PSD applause.]] Mrs. Deputy and Mrs. Members of the left-wing majority, there is one thing that has to be said, too, in a completely clear way: this communication system has a well-defended paternity line. Your contract has a signature, which is that of the current Prime Minister Antonio Costa. It was the current Prime Minister who rejected the previous contract...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u19	Daniel Sanches, will you tell him something?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u20	... and, in 2005, provided a new contract that came to consubstance itself, now exactly 11 years ago. The valences, functions, obligations, duties and rights of the State and the SIRESP are recorded in the contract signed by the then Minister of Internal Administration António Costa, which is the face, the true face of the current model of the SIRESP. And I repeat, I find it regrettable that there are so many criticisms about SIRESP within internal mechanics, about the internal circularity of management, and that the Left Block has not tried to assert its reasons, rather than come here pretending to be a party to the opposition when it is a party of the government. You are government. If they think that SIRESP doesn't serve, then they change it. You have no more excuses. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u21	You have the floor to ask for clarifications, Mr Jorge Machado, from the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Sandra Cunha, contrary to what has just been said by the PSD bench, for the PCP makes no sense that the Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks in Portugal, which serves all security services and civil protection agents, is in the hands of private. It makes no sense, given the nature of the communications we are talking about, by their sensitivity,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u24	... but it also makes no sense to the extent that the privates condition their intervention on the basis of the profits they intend to obtain and not on the basis of the public service that that system provides. in this sense, we understand as positive the intention to ensure that the SIRESP is in the hands of the state, from which, say to pass, should never have left. Madam President, in the form of a question, I would like to put two concerns to you so that we can also understand the position and perspective of the Left Block on this matter. The first concern concerns the need not to interrupt the communication system. Although insufficient, of all inadequacies, of all the problems that we will address later on, it is the only integrated system of communications that exists and therefore the reversal of the contract must ensure that communications are not interrupted in a period which is particularly critical. The second concern is that it is not enough to reverse the property to the State. As it is, the SIRESP does not work and effectively needs concrete measures. There are specific areas of the territory where there is, does not work, there are problems of running daily, there are more dangerous situations of public calamity to which the SIRESP, as evidenced, does not respond. Therefore, revert to the state yes, but not this SIRESP. Of course, we need to have a better, more effective communication system that responds to a scenario of the worst possible situation, from the point of view of civil protection, and that responds also throughout the national territory. But this, of course, requires action. I would put these two concerns to you to understand the perspective of the Left Block on these problems that we identified. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u25	In reply, Mrs. Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u26	Mr President, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, this debate is not about the tragedy of Pedrogan Grande.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u27	Didn't happen? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u28	As I said, the failures that have occurred, the failures that SIRESP has experienced since its implementation, for a number of years. For more than 10 years, these failures of SIRESP have been recorded: communication failures, interferences, weaknesses, various problems. With regard to SIRESP and these failures, the Left Block awaits for all analyses, for all studies and for the clearance of all responsibilities, and therefore we do not condemn or ilibrate SIRESP in this very concrete matter. But this debate goes far beyond what happened a few days ago, the tragic events we all know. These failures have happened, as I said in 2013, in 2008, in 2014, in 2016, are not from now on. All field operators, all civil protection officials, the various civil protection entities report these weaknesses. Therefore, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, it is difficult for me to realize that he completely ignores these claims, the complaints of these professionals. We believe that the Portuguese deserve all protection and all security and all these failures, for 10 years, have proved more than enough to realize that this private management is not effective, it is incompetent and has not been to guarantee the security and protection that populations deserve. Mr. Minister,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u29	Not yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u30	I'm sorry. Mr Deputy, I was thinking of the Minister, so he said « Mr. Minister'. I was thinking of Minister Daniel Sanches,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u31	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask for some silence to be heard by the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u32	... that it was who initiated this entire process and was Minister of the PSD Government / CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u33	Who signed?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u34	Furthermore, Secretary of State Fernando Alexandre, former State Secretary of the PSD Government, defended precisely the public management of this communication system. He defended her publicly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u35	It's an ideological obsession! Fernando Alexandre has an ideological obsession!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u36	Therefore, we believe that Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim from the PSD bench has an ideological barrier that does not allow him to go beyond his conception and defense of private interests and that prevents him from really seeing reality, including when former State Secretaries of his administration talk about these issues. Mr Jorge Machado made a good summary of the difficulties and problems of the SIRESP and what needs to be changed, improved and corrected. If this is done and how it is done, it is a matter that must be studied, but at the head of the State, with public management. It must be based on the basis that exists and that is a system that puts all actors involved in these matters into communication, but this protection guarantee can only be effectively guaranteed by the State. It is also the responsibility of the State for the protection and security of populations. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u37	To ask for clarification, you now have the floor, Mr André Silva, of the PAN, and then Mr Filipe Neto Brandão, of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Sandra Cunha, the SIRESP, instead of supporting the disaster resolution, has had the opposite effect. It sharpens them, therefore, at times when it is more precise, it fails institutions and people. In 2014, a report by the Ministry of Internal Administration pointed to technical failures in network coverage and the resilience of this communication system. Now, and following the fire that broke out in Pedrogão, there is a government report that concludes that « there was no interruption in the operation of the SIRESP network, nor was there any base station that was left out of service ». However, this conclusion is contrary to the statements made by civil protection, firefighters and autarchs, which account for serious failures at the level of communications on the ground. Finally, Mrs Deputy, we already know that the State will maintain the public-private partnership for the management of SIRESP, but after several failures, such as those detected in the great weather of the winter of 2013 and in the extensive forest fires of the summer of 2016, and after 485 million euros spent, will it make sense to continue to invest in the private and inefficient management of this system? After 10 years, what guarantee will the Portuguese have that the system will ultimately serve its purpose and that public interests will not be suppressed by profit? It is that if we take into account all the political guarantees given by successive governments throughout the SIRESP process, we are sure that we will be talking about this again within 10 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u39	You now have the floor, Mr Filipe Neto Brandão, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Sandra Cunha, the Left Block has addressed the issue of the termination of the contract of the public-private partnership with SIRESP for this plenary meeting, which is the first subsequent to the approval by this plenary of an independent technical committee on the facts relating to the tragic events of 17 June, to which it will be, as you know, among other competences, to carry out the analysis and evaluation of all the entities involved, and in particular 'of the communication systems'. I would therefore be advised and consistent, Mrs Deputies, to wait for this independent technical statement, rather than give in to the temptation to give on some matter—such as fulfillment or non-compliance—which are objectively controversial, and it is true that, in doing so, it precedes conclusions we still hope for. This is not just about the independent technical committee, Mrs Deputy. It does not ignore that, following these events, there is also the order of the Minister of Internal Administration of 26 June, which gives the Institute of Telecommunications precisely the evaluation of the operation of the SIRESP and therefore a technical assessment that we are still waiting for. In addition to this circumstance, she also does not ignore, Mrs Deputy, that it could be questioned whether the managing entity, which is public, would be worth remembering that the SIRESP is managed by a public entity, the MAI Secretary-General (Ministry of Internal Administration) — would be zealously fulfilling its supervisory obligations. In order to have an answer to this question, it is important, until we have full knowledge of what we are talking about, also to take into account the order of the Minister of Internal Administration who determines that within 30 days the Inspectorate-General of Internal Administration shall decide on the degree of compliance of the MAI Secretary-General with regard to the management, maintenance and supervision of the SIRESP. We are therefore only 15 days away from knowing the result of this assessment, which is fundamental to knowing where we are in terms of fulfilling the obligations of the operator entity, SIRESP, SA. The honourable Member, in her speech and also in the text of the draft resolution, makes a historiography of the contractual process and, to this extent, does what is a mixture between the history of a contractual relationship and the present degree of fulfilment of a contract. However, it is true that this history gives rise to perplexities and we follow some of the perplexities of the Left Block, namely how to answer that, in the face of a business of this size, 14 years ago was given by the 16th Constitutional Government — Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has forgotten to mention — a period of only two months in the summer for the presentation of the proposal. This is obviously a perplexity, but, worth the truth, none of these perplexities is likely to boil with the present appreciation of the degree of fulfilment of this contract. The honourable Member brings up a matter which is relevant but for which, in order to be able to make a reasoned decision, we have no urgent answers to the questions that have been raised. I therefore raise two questions. First of all, I do not fully know the financial consequences of such a contractual complaint, but they are contractually fixed, so I wonder if you have any estimate on the amount in which they would budget. Secondly, if it would not be — as I think it is — much more reasonable to wait for the outcome of the reports that are ordered and requested to, as Mr Prime Minister has already said in this very Chamber, we will change what, according to these studies, is to change. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u41	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Left Block has requested that the answer be given together to the four gentlemen. Members who have signed up to request clarification and not two to two. So Mr Telmo Correia has the floor of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Sandra Cunha, the first reflection I wanted to make in this debate is very obvious. I had already read the statements of the parliamentary leader of the Left Block, Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares, which I congratulated, telling a newspaper that this debate was not about Pedrogão Grande, that it had nothing to do with it, nor had it anything to do with what resulted from that tragedy. I have now heard the honourable Member, in another version, repeat the same idea more or less. Mrs. Members of the Left Block, let me tell you that if this has nothing to do with Pedragon Grande, if it has nothing to do with this tragedy, if it is brought here today a debate on SIRESP, after what has been the public debate in the last 15 days, then if it has nothing to do with Pedragon Grande, it can only be an exercise of political opportunism. I see no further explanation for this. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] It is, Mrs. Sandra Cunha, in Pedrogão Grande, that 64 people have died. This is a virtually peerless tragedy in a country that is struck every year by thousands of forest fires. What we already know today, regardless of the committee and what it is about — the committee whose creation, in fact, the Left Block has signed —...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u43	The CDS too!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u44	... irrespective of that, what we already know today is that there was serious disorganization, there was discoordination on the ground, there were changes of operational commands, which were not perceived and which happened, of course, to recent changes in these same operational commands, were firefighters, without communications, lost in the midst of that tragedy, were GNR men, for whom they tried to « shake the water from the hood», without knowing how they could deal with a situation of that gravity... all this happened. In addition, all the explanations we know, including those of the communications and of the SIRESP, are contradictory — it is the SIRESP to shoot for Civil Protection and is the Civil Protection to shoot for the SIRESP — the Government is unable to coordinate until a reading and a response and, in the middle of this, what does the Block want? He wants to discuss only the SIRESP and still does not want to discuss the SIRESP, or just discuss whether it should be public or private.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u45	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u46	The Left Block is whitening a gravity that is of obvious and obvious political responsibility. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u47	Let's see who's white!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u48	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you very much: where is Mr Pedro Filipe Soares now standing, who, in 2015, stated periodically, in the face of a situation that did not even have the gravity of the situation nor demonstrated the discoordination we have seen, the following: « Incompetence of the government cannot find justification in meteorology»?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u49	By the way, it wasn't me but Mr. Pedro Soares!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u50	What did Mrs Catarina Martins tell us now? Let the rain come. That's how the Left Block is! That's how your coherence is! [[BE's protests.]] You want to discuss whether SIRESP should be public or private. About SIRESP, there's a lot to discuss. From the start, as has already been said, one should know: who made the contract and who signed it? Why aren't communications guaranteed not only by land, but also by satellite? Why was the SIRESP report not fulfilled, which said investment at antenna level was absolutely essential? Why has this government, your government, failed to renegotiate with the SIRESP? There is a lot to discuss about SIRESP, as it is obvious. Knowing whether it is in the public or in the private is obviously not the essential issue. It only serves to know that the Left Block, which has always been so far, has always been so quick to demand resignation even for reasons of opinion—in the past, they were asking for resignation—now, in view of this, on request for zero resignation, on zero political responsibility, in particular with regard to a minister who, we have all realized, and the CDS has already said clearly, has no conditions to continue and would not even have the conditions to renegotiate the SIRESP as you intend it to be renegotiated. I wouldn't even have the conditions for that, such is fragility. [[CDS-PP applause.]] By the way, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me a note of good will in relation to your proposals, even if all this is very tragic. Looking at your proposal and deconstructing it from an ideological point of view, I would like to tell you that you have a simple answer to everything: it is public and it is resolved. We nationalize everything, nationalize the country, everything becomes public and everything is resolved. Competence is guaranteed, effectiveness guaranteed. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would almost suggest the following: if so, then why don't we nationalize the military countries? [[CDS-PP laughter.]] It is that, if we come to nationalize the army's countries, perhaps, thousands of more grenades and explosives do not disappear and incompetence no longer exists.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u51	It was a lot of fun.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u52	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not in public or private. This is in bad or well managed, competent or incompetent. You know that as well as I do. [[CDS-PP applause.]] And we are going to talk about whether it should be public or private, because we also have no complex issues in this regard. [[Protests from BE Member Sandra Cunha.]] But if it's all public, you know what the honourable Member is saying next? What a lack of public investment. If everything became public, then the honourable Member said that what was missing was public investment. Question: Were you not the ones who came to reconcile the country's demands, to reconcile the recovery of income with public investment? Isn't that what they were coming for? Isn't that what you were going to solve when you were in government? Who's been in the government for almost two years? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u53	How long has there been, for example, video surveillance in Tanks, if not two years ago? Who did it and who approved the last two State budgets? If it was a problem of lack of public investment, why did you not, until today, put investment in the State budget, how should they put it? You are not pretending that this should be public or private, you are pretending that there are, you are making a useless living, because, in fact, the Left Block, so bold in the past, today, this debate well demonstrates it, is useless. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u54	To request clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Sandra Cunha, as well as she said from the rostrum, the SIRESP is the result of a public-private partnership and, as is the case in public-private partnerships, the public interest is also behind. in this case, it is sufficient to find that the Portuguese will pay five times more than the value spent by the consortium on this emergency communications network. Therefore, it is a good business for the private, but it is a disastrous business from the financial point of view, but not only for the State and for the taxpayers. But the SIRESP process is still a process with many setbacks, from its creation or even before its creation. It is a process that is not transparent, obscure and with many strange elements to mix. This was a public-private partnership created by a PSD/CDS management government, with views from the Attorney-General of the Republic saying that a management government had no competence to approve a business with the importance of SIRESP. More: this was a case with acts which were annulled, with the Court of Auditors doubting the legality of the invitation to tender and criticising the deadline given by the Government of Durão Barroso for the submission of tenders to the invitation to tender, which was only 52 days. It was a competition in which only one competitor — Motorola, in partnership with the Lusae Business Society — appeared, a competition in which the Government of Durão Barroso allowed the only competitor to reform his proposal, because it was initially inappropriate for the public interest to continue. It was therefore a very strange process. In addition, Mrs Deputy, we still have the fragility that the SIRESP has been demonstrating over time. Unfortunately, everyone knows the SIRESP, but knows it, especially because of its failures, its weaknesses and its insufficiency. We also believe that, given the importance that the integrated system of emergency networks represents for the country, it is necessary to bring the public interest for the equation and, in this sense, we follow the Block in the need of the State to call upon it the responsibilities that are currently given to the consortium that manages the SIRESP. But, Mrs Sandra Cunha, when we look at the entire SIRESP process, in particular for the short term given for the delivery of tenders for tenders at the time of the Government of Durão Barroso — probably even to remove other competitors — when we look at the faculty that the same Government has just given to the competitor to reform his proposal, instead of opening a new invitation to tender, we are left with the idea that this contest or business was exactly done in the best interests of Motorola and the Lusa de Negócios Society and not in the best interests of the public, as it should be and as it should be.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u56	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u57	However, this situation distorts everything that is intended to safeguard with public tenders, in particular the transparency of contracts, but still leaves the public interest, which should be the greatest premise in these contracts and also in these tenders. What I am asking Mrs Sandra Cunha is whether we share the reading we do with the competition that gave rise to the SIRESP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u58	In reply, Mrs. Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr José Luís Ferreira and Mr André Silva, we agree at all with what they have said and we also record the understanding that they do — and that it is similar to what the Block does — in relation to this issue of management of the SIRESP. Of course we also agree with the analysis made regarding the origin of SIRESP and the business which is this communication system, so crucial for Portugal. Mr Filipe Neto Brandão, once again this issue that we are discussing here today does not have to do with Pedrogão Grande. It has to do with all the situations we have reported, which we have exemplified and which exist in the various news over time, several years, which are the various problems that SIRESP has revealed over the last decade. The evaluation that the independent technical committee will make in relation to the events of Pedrogão Grande is very important and, of course, will have consequences. Now, this project that the Left Block here brings not only has to do with the tragedy of Pedrogão Grande, but has to do with all the problems that have been revealed in recent years in various contexts, in various fires, forests or not, of which Pedrogão Grande was, in fact, one more. We always believe that the safety and protection of the population cannot be held hostage by business or financial estimates. If we really took into account the financial costs, the interest of the State and the public interest, the SIRESP would not have cost the State more than five times as much as it cost.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u60	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u61	The SIRESP would not have cost the State about EUR 500 million instead of EUR 100 million, that is, it would have cost five times less. It is not from now on that the Left Block is concerned about these issues and it is not from now on that the Left Block speaks of these SIRESP problems and the need to manage from the hands of the private to the hands of the public.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u62	But there is now a context!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u63	Mr Telmo Correia, after Pedrogão — and we know that such tragedies can happen in the future and it is likely that they will happen more and more — do not take any kind of consequence is that it would really be dramatic. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u64	We therefore tabled the draft resolution under discussion. Mr. Member, the former Under-Secretary of State of the Minister of Internal Administration, Fernando Alexandre, who also defends public management and SIRESP in the public hands, was the PSD / CDS government and was the CDS. As you well said, it is precisely the SIRESP to be mismanaged or well managed and, in fact, has been mismanaged in the hands of the private. The right and the honourable Member have embraced all the subjects so that everything will remain in the same and, indeed, not to move again in the business and profits of the private. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u65	Mrs. Members are in the gallery for the Diplomatic Corps a delegation from the Parliamentary Group of Friends of Iran-Portugal, chaired by Mostafa Kavakebian. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who salute the delegation, as I have done this morning. [[PSD applause, standing members, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and Os Verdes, standing, and PAN.]] Let us therefore continue our work. Mr José Silvano, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u66	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block, with this power schedule, aims to focus the debate on the public-private partnership model of SIRESP in an ideological prejudice that only what is public defends populations and everything that is private is business.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u67	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u68	Some will say it's opportunism, they'll say it's opportunism. It is interesting to mention, on this public-private partnership, that there is a public entity, the Secretariat-General of the Ministry of Internal Administration, which is the managing entity. It is up to this entity to ensure its operation. It is therefore up to the State to ensure its operation and supervision. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the discussion of this draft resolution, at a time when we know that the catastrophic consequences caused by the fire of Pedrogão Grande have led to 64 people dying and more than two hundred being injured, is a dilaatory maneuver that aims to discuss the accessory rather than the essential.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u69	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u70	contrary to being concerned about what has failed with this communication system, which has caused a total discoordination of means that eventually led to the total destruction of those territories — today, in all reports made, either in the social communication, or in the entities, through two objective data, the failure to communicate and the decoordination, and for this, there are no reports or evaluation committees, because these are the objective data that we have before us – the priority of the Left Block is to discuss the ideological model and the ownership of the SIRESP. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what concerns the Portuguese is to know what happened on the ground during the days when the fire took place, especially in the first hours, what failed to make it unique in the catastrophic consequences it has had and what is being done to prevent such tragic consequences in future fires. In short, restore confidence in the State, a State that failed in that fire. [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, 18 days ago, we still have no concrete answers from the entities to any question, only contradictions and a shift from guilt from entity to entity, body to body and responsible. It's a case to say: enough! We want answers and don't apologize. We demand authority and coordination. We do not need those responsible to be victimized, because the real victims were those who perished and those who were injured in the fire. For all this, it is important, yes, to analyze the facts and the evidence that occurred in the theatre of the operations to understand who did what he did, what he did and what time he did. If we analyze the tape of time, it is clear, in our understanding, that the first hours of fire fighting were dominated by the lack of organization, decoordination and confusion in communications. in the last few days, it has been noted that the SIRESP has failed for several hours, although the Minister has declared that there was no total failure of the system, but indeed, interferences. On 23 June, the newspaper i read that the SIRESP ceased to operate between 19 hours on Saturday and 9 hours on 30 minutes on Sunday and that during this period firefighters, GNR and Civil Protection were unable to communicate with each other. The National Civil Protection Authority only admits SIRESP failures in a short period of time. The Operational Commander who was on the ground assured, during the press conferences, that the network failures were very short, less than 1 minute, half minute, and that, therefore, they never compromised the operations. On the other hand, the SIRESP report says there were no communication failures, only network saturation. The General Secretariat of the Ministry of Internal Administration, i.e. the System Manager, says that there have been failures in communications and that these failures need to be analysed and verified. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what are we in? Mrs. Members of the Left Block will not be more important to discuss what has failed in the operation of this information system and why this total discoordination between entities and what has to be done so that in future fires—we are still at the beginning of the critical phase—there are no more problems with these tragic consequences than we will focus our discussion on the model of acquisition of this technology? That's what the Portuguese definitely want to know. On the closure of the so-called 'death road', the total discoordination with the Prime Minister, in a television interview, continues to say that the road was not closed, with the Secretary of State reporting a radio that the road was closed and with the GNR stating that he did not receive any instructions to close it. What matters to the Portuguese is to give concrete answers to the reasons why such a road has not been closed.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u71	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u72	The confirmations of the number of dead and wounded were another complete discoordination, with entities, firefighters, Civil Protection, GNR and State Secretary giving completely contradictory versions. This is another proof of the total decoordination that occurred in the theatre of operations. What matters, therefore, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is also to provide urgent and concrete responses to the needs of the people and the problems they face on the ground. We must find expatriate means, as the President of the PSD, Pedro Passos Coelho, said today, to resolve urgent situations and, if necessary, create legal mechanisms to provide the investigation to give concrete response to people in the field. [[PSD applause.]] The proof that the communication system has failed and that the SIRESP has not responded to requests made at the theatre of operations is the presentation at this time—I repeat at this time of this initiative of the Left Block. With this initiative, it seems that the Left Block or, in any way, explain reasons for the failure in the field of SIRESP, but this information system and this problem would not be discussed at this time. Even the ideological arguments on the public or private model do not, on the contrary, distort the functioning of the communications in the fire and their discoordination. We can state that the first well-founded conclusion of the non-operation of the media and its communication plan is drawn by one of the parties supporting the Government — the Left Block, with the presentation of this issue today in a authoritative manner. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what is true and objectively proven is that SIRESP has failed. If it has failed for 14 hours and 30 minutes, as some say, or if it has failed intermittently, as others say, we cannot devalue the fact. Lacking few or many hours, or intermittently, or with saturation, what is true is that SIRESP has failed. To those who still want to assign responsibilities to previous governments, the PSD and the CDS-PP on the acquisition of SIRESP, I recall an objective fact that happened in the time of the Government of Eng. José Socrates, whose Minister of Internal Administration was the current Prime Minister. This government has decided to declare the nullity of the business. Question: given that there was a system that had so many vicissitudes, that it was so bad, that it had so badly negotiated, that it had so many interests in its genesis, because at this time, when it was denounced and when it was cancelled, the new Government and the Prime Minister, who was at the time the Minister of Internal Administration, did not make a new SIRESP, a new contest and a new model? Instead, they chose to renegotiate the contract. [[PSD applause.]] from this negotiation on 5 May 2006, the evaluation committee for this PPP recorded three amendments: non-essential modules were eliminated and the centres of Porto, Madeira and Azores were terminated ; the billing management functionality was eliminated ; and, most importantly— this change that I want to refer to, the start phase was eliminated, i.e. a simplification of the system acceptance procedure was made because it was considered that the tests and verification of expected performance, as well as the failure penalty system that was designed, cautioned the objectives set for the SIRESP network. This is written in a judgment of the Court of Auditors. All this to save about EUR 50 million. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no arguments against this.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u74	The PSD throughout this process is of quiet consciousness, both when we talk about the fires, as well as the tape of time, as well as this contract, and is available to discuss it in all its forms. If the Socialist Party wants to change this model and perfect it, it has its partners here for that, it does not need the PSD. But we're not going to be an obstacle. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u75	Mr José Silvano, the Bureau has registered, to request clarifications from the Members. Deputies José Manuel Pureza, of BE, and Fernando Anastácio, of PS. In the meantime, Mr Silvano informed the Bureau that he intends to respond together. First of all, Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. José Silvano, spoke of ideological prejudice. So let's talk about ideological prejudice. Mr President, I would like to hear with all my attention what I am going to read: "SIRESP is one of those ruinous PPPs in which the state takes us from time to time. Maybe the worst of them all. It is a classic: in most PPPs, profit is private and damage is passed on to the public. The risk is all on the public side, it is true, but at least there is a service provided to the country. Not in the case of SIRESP. Here, the taxpayer pays, has all the risk on his side and is not even entitled to the service. SIRESP is a consortium of bankruptcies. PT, BPN, BES... are all there». These words, Mr. José Silvano, are from someone who certainly has an enormous ideological prejudice—the name is Carlos Carreiras and is one of the most important leaders of the Social Democratic Party. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr Silvano, I remember that what we are talking about here is not, in fact, ideological prejudice, a contract concluded by the State and that it has to give all security guarantees to all people. I would like to ask you, honourable Member, whether you have all confidence in a consortium that has the Lusa Business Society as its main shareholder, that has the Holy Spirit Security as one of its first shareholders, that has Motorola as one of its main shareholders and is at the same time a supplier of this same service. Is it ideological prejudice, or is it common sense, or is it reasonable, Member? On the other hand, we are talking about ideological prejudice, Mr Deputy, in fact, the studies carried out by completely unsuspecting economists in this matter revealed that if this service had been provided by the State, it would have cost about EUR 120 million at the time of the start of this contract. This contract was concluded by a government chaired by Pedro Santana Lopes to the private consortium, which I recently announced, for about 450 million euros. [[PSD protests.]] Mr President, if it is ideological prejudice, if there is here some ideological bias of the government chaired by Pedro Santana Lopes, through the Minister of Internal Administration, Daniel Sanches, the SLN's own administrator, if all this is, after all, an ideological cabal on public-private partnerships. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Finally, Mr Silvano, I would like to ask you something which is very concrete and which is news of the last few minutes: we know now — and you certainly also knew — that the company SIRESP, the consortium, approved the distribution of dividends of EUR 4, EUR 2 million one day after the failure of Galileo / SLN, which is, in fact, the largest shareholder of this consortium. I would therefore like to ask you, Mr José Silvano, whether you are against this dividend distribution or whether you are in favour of it. If you're in favor, it's really pure ideological prejudice. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Deputy Gabriela Canavilhas.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u77	Mr Fernando Anastácio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u78	Mr. President, thank you very much. Mr José Silvano initially characterized his intervention by the need for answers, but then he did not resist the temptation to talk about conclusions throughout his entire text.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u79	There's someone who's drawing conclusions!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u80	In other words, Mr. José Silvano, who is also part of that PSD that a few days ago, in a very sensible way, in a worrying way, wanted to know, by independent technical experts, everything that had happened, a few days later it is part of the other PSD, that PSD that does not need technical results, because it already has conclusions, because it is enough for him to hear news from the newspaper. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the point at which ideological coherence and the coherence of the opposition on these issues have come. Mr President, it is always a danger to make an intervention based on news reports, because in news reports we have unproven opinions and the honourable Member today did not resist the temptation to draw conclusions based on newspaper reports and to put aside, to play for the garbage bin what he considered essential a few days ago: a report prepared by independent experts, independent of everyone, who could bring this Parliament and the Portuguese to respond to what happened. Mr President, the oppositions do not really help, because for the country there is also a need for responsible opposition and the PSD does not really show that example. Mr Deputy, since we talked about history and since they brought here to the colloquium and discussion the history of SIRESP, we will not rewrite the story, because everyone who tried to rewrite the story, in the past, has never done very well. And now that we're talking about paternity, it's not good to throw our children away! Mr Deputy, the SIRESP competition was launched by a government without 11 stations in the European Union in 2004 yet without a contract, and then its government took two months in the summer to submit proposals - in fact, the honourable Member must have already forgotten that. On the other hand, he must remember the report and the opinion of the Advisory Council of the Attorney-General's Office of the Republic, which clearly referred to in point 2 of the conclusions that there were no conditions, from the point of view of the design, of the management, of the entire invitation to tender, to raise any challenge; what was at stake was the procurement order made by the Government three days after the election was lost,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... that government with a minister named Daniel Sanches, who came directly from the SLN and who returned to the SLN with a contract to award the baggage. This is what happened! [[PSD protests.]] And the Government of the Socialist Party, through the Minister of Internal Administration, António Costa, was to revoke the award order.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u81	Don't say that! Signed! There's the signature!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u82	He revoked the award order, following the principles and recommendation of the opinion. This is important if you know! So, honourable Member, it is not worth rewriting the story! History is there, paternity is there and SIRESP and PSD are two things that will never separate from each other, because they have an umbilical cord for the rest of their history. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u83	To reply, Mr Silvano has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. José Manuel Pureza and Mr. Fernando Anastácio, thank you very much for the questions that have asked me because they allow me to clarify these questions with objectivity. And I say objectively, because the way to clarify is with facts and not with subjective judgments. The facts are perfectly clear: the current SIRESP contract, whether or not, has a face—and I say this calmly—that is the current Prime Minister's contract. [[Congratulations from the PSD and CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]] I repeat calmly: the SIRESP contract, which is in force, has a face: António Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u86	And I will explain why and without subjectivity: if the contract was so bad, if, as you say, you rewritten the previous story, why did Antonio Costa, Minister of Internal Administration, in the Government of José Socrates, when you had the opportunity, because the Court of Auditors itself cancelled the contract, did not make new procedure and new contract? Why did you trade this one? I don't understand! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Let us be clear: if a Minister of Internal Administration and a Government wanted to negotiate, renegotiate, or start negotiations with this contract for a year, it is because there were things in this contract with which the Government agreed. And so much agreed that the amendments proposed by the Minister of Internal Administration of that Government were only three, which I have just mentioned in my speech, achieving a saving of EUR 50 million. There are three conditions: two perfectly accessories and one that can be essential, which is to dispense the trial period, the training period of this type of situation. [[PSD applause.]] That is the question and this is the objective fact and — we will leave things behind — we will all have blame on the cartel! But this contract that is in force only has one face, which is that of Antonio Costa. He's the one who did the business, he's the one who made the changes. [[PSD applause.]] With regard to the technical questions referred to by Mr Fernando Anastácio, it is very simple: I have only spoken of objective facts. It is clear that the appointed committee will draw the technical and more specific conclusions that are necessary to understand all the mechanics, but there are obvious conclusions that can be taken and that there is no need for the technical committee, just to see the « tape of time », which the Ministry of Internal Administration itself distributed and which is on its official page, to realize that in the first hours no one understood himself, neither in communications nor in coordination. This is clear and objective! [[PSD applause.]] I think that everyone understands this — in fact, the Portuguese are already asking this question. So these are political conclusions and I, as a Member, need, have the obligation and have the right to be able to draw here. [[Congratulations from the PSD and CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u87	Mr Jorge Machado has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Communications between security forces and services and civil protection agents are vital to the normal functioning of our security and civil protection mechanisms. Being vital to the normal functioning of civil security and protection services in an emergency, disaster or natural disaster scenario, communications are of even greater importance, and may well make a difference between life and death. Therefore, it is obvious to the PCP that this emergency communications system cannot be conditional on the logic of private profit. The State must therefore ensure an autonomous and independent system of third parties. It happens that the SIRESP was born wrong and, as our people say, "what is born wrong late or never goes right". SIRESP is a public-private partnership, it is a contract signed by a PSD / CDS-PP management government by a minister with links to the SLN / BPN Group, which is by chance one of the companies constituting the SIRESP, and cost the state EUR 485 million. Today we know by way of a question put by the PCP to Oliveira and Costa, in the investigation committee to BPN, that, as he admitted, the SIRESP cost up to 80 million euros, that is, we know that the State paid five times more for a system than it actually did. More: we continue to pay around EUR 40 million per year.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u89	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u90	So SIRESP has one word: business. For the PCP it makes no sense that the integrated communications system is in the hands of private persons, subject to the logic of profit and not subject to the logic of public service of vital importance. It is ironic that in SIRESP, consisting of a group of companies where SLN / BPN and BES Group ESEGUR are of particular importance, two banks intervened by the State, in which, by option of PSD, CDS and PS, the losses were « nationalised » without affecting the assets of these companies. If they had also nationalized assets, as proposed by the CFP, today we would have the public control of SIRESP and we would be discussing what measures we would have to take to make it work and respond effectively. This was not the option of PSD, CDS, and PS, so even today as a result of this, we are paying EUR 40 million per year for a system that objectively has serious gaps. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the CFP it is necessary to rethink our country's emergency communications system and, in addition to ensuring that the State has, without third parties' dependence, an integrated communications system, it is necessary to consider whether we go to a SIRESP base or another technological solution. I remember here that there are other options in our country: for example, the Azores have opted for a separate technology solution, cheaper and, by the way, more efficient; the Armed Forces have developed their own capacity to respond to emergency communications. It is therefore necessary to rethink the communication system and whether or not we maintain a SIRESP base system. However, it is necessary to solve the various problems that SIRESP has, in particular the gray areas without coverage that exist and that are unacceptable, the problems of operation and the fragility in disaster scenarios that objectively exist. I have here, Mr. President and Mr. Members, an electronic mail message we receive today from the management system of SIRESP, which informs a set of elements of civil protection that in a base station of SIRESP a maintenance will be promoted, stating that maintenance will be between 10 and 18 hours and that it will only take two hours. It's a bit like those private television operators who say: "We're going home to solve the problem between 10 o'clock in the morning and 10 o'clock in the evening. Wait. » The same logic works in SIRESP, that is, they say: between 10 and 18 hours (we do not know when) we will do maintenance. Of course, we are not against maintenance, and even we admit that it may take the two hours, but it is unacceptable that civil protection agents are conditioned in this period of time by the private management that says: "Let's go there when we want to, between 10 and 18 hours". We can't go on like this! We need to change the emergency communications system! We understand that, in addition to having to discuss the issue of public property that SIRESP should have — and that is essential — it is also essential, immediately, to ensure that there are no interruptions from the SIRESP network in this approaching period, to immediately lift existing capacities with firefighters and the Armed Forces to create more agile channels of communication, if the SIRESP fails, that is, in essence, we need to improve the redundant systems that exist today. Secondly, it is necessary to adopt the measures necessary for the State to have an autonomous and independent system of emergency communications with full coverage of the national territory and to operate in the worst possible scenarios. in this respect, Mr President and Mr. Members, we wanted to say here that, contrary to what the PSD and CDS-P imply, the SIRESP is not the symptom of the failure of the state ; it is the proof of the failure of the political options of the PSD and the CDS-PP, it is the failure of the PPP system, the degradation of the State's ability to promote private businesses, always watered with the idea that private people are able to manage. SIRESP is the failure of the right-wing policy, not the failure of the State. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u91	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u92	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u93	Mr President, it is to make an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u94	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u95	Thank you very much, Mr President. In order not to become a parliamentary adage that a often repeated lie becomes true, I would like to ask Mr. President to distribute to all parliamentary groups The photocopy of the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 74 / 2006, in which the current SIRESP contract is awarded in the Government of José Socrates and being Minister of Internal Administration Dr. António Costa. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u96	Mr President, please send the document to the Bureau. Mrs. Members, the Bureau is currently making no request for a word.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u97	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u98	Mr. Filipe Neto Brandão, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u99	Mr President, for an appeal to the Bureau on the progress of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u100	Sir, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u101	Mr President, through you the Exa, the opinion of the Attorney General's Office on the award by the former Minister, Daniel Sanches, of the SIRESP contract is distributed to all parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u102	It's not in force!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u103	I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, please provide the documentation that you have referred to for the Bureau to proceed with its distribution. I am saying again that the Bureau does not record any request for a word.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u104	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u105	Mr. Filipe Neto Brandão, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u106	Mr President, to register Mr José Miguel Medeiros for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u107	I call on the parliamentary groups to proceed with the other entries they understand. You have the floor, then, for an intervention, Mr José Miguel Medeiros.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We discussed today, at the initiative of the Left Block, draft resolution No 959 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ), which recommends to the Government the denunciation of the contract with the company operating the Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks in Portugal, also referred to as SIRESP. Let us then examine the situation. The creation of this system of communications began to take place in the late 1990s, by the XIII Constitutional Government, within the framework of a profound restructuring and modernization of security and civil protection forces and services, and was the subject of a resolution by the Council of Ministers in July 1999. This is indeed the first diploma to deal with the needs for the modernisation of the emergency and security communications networks that were in operation with the security and emergency forces and services at that time, which were, as a rule, obsolete. The communication system was then characterized by a multiplicity of communication networks, based on very diverse equipment, of several technological generations, with different levels of coverage of the territory and without possibilities to operate between themselves. in this framework, this was a decision appropriate to the circumstances, paying attention to the vital importance of ensuring the creation, installation and use of a single infrastructure that would serve the different entities operating in the fields of national emergency and security, using more advanced and modern technologies. It was therefore assumed that a system developed by the European Institute of Telecommunications Standards ( ETSI ), within the framework of the European Union, designated by TETRA ( Terrestrial Trunked Radio ) was then considered to be the European standard that best met the operational needs of the security forces and emergency services and was therefore already being used successfully in several countries of the European Union. This was, and still today, a system called for communications between closed groups of users, involved in the areas concerned and which at the same time allows interoperability between all entities sharing the infrastructure. We speak of a state-of-the-art technology that did not dominate, which is why we understand the use of the public-private partnership that is justified by the complexity of the system that was intended to build and operate. in this sense, it was committed to the Ministry of Internal Administration the coordination of the process aimed at the establishment and supply of the future national mobile network of emergency and security, to implement according to TETRA technology and the technical specifications of the then Instituto das Comunicões de Portugal ( ICP ). This institute has been entrusted with the task of proposing the legislative and regulatory instruments necessary for the invitation to tender for the selection of the support network operator and other technical and coordination issues. In January 2001, the Government, through the Under-Secretary of State and the Internal Administration, drew up an order which created the working group with the task of carrying out the studies and drawing up the proposals necessary for the architecture of the network support system. The study performed allowed the characterization of physical infrastructure, morphology and operating requirements and the equation of alternative scenarios for its implementation in the territory and defined its temporal implementation. To this end, all existing experiences in projects of this nature have been analysed in implementation or operation in the various countries of the European Union, including several visits to various countries by the team of experts of the working group. In 2002, after considering all technical issues and legal constraints that could result in competition only if the TETRA system was assessed, it was considered appropriate that other equivalent technologies should be considered in accordance with the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 26 / 2002. The network has now received the designation SIRESP, the Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks of Portugal, as a single national system, shared to ensure the satisfaction of the communication needs of security and emergency forces and services, satisfying the intercommunication and interoperability between forces and services and allowing the centralization of the command, whenever justified. It was also determined that the user-payer principle would be applied in the operation and use of the system and that it would be implemented in two phases. In 2003 and 2004, a first phase and from 2005 to 2007, a second phase to achieve at that time - was expected - the total coverage of the national territory. at this time, the levels of coverage and redundancy of the essential elements of the network were defined, as well as the allocation to the Ministry of Internal Administration and the Institute of Communications of Portugal, as a national communications authority, the coordination of the entire process of implementation of the SIRESP, as well as the technological migration of existing networks. The Council of Ministers also determined the establishment of two separate entities to ensure the operation of the system, namely: a user council, integrating the representatives of all users of the network and chaired by the Minister of Internal Administration, which would at the same time also preside over the operational security entity ; and an enterprise based on a PPP, respecting the principle of the paying user and continuing the management rules with a view to self-financing of the project. In 2003, the 15th Constitutional Government, therefore, led by Dr Durão Barroso, adopted a new resolution which, in addition to reaffirming the assumptions that were based on the resolutions of the previous Government, adds a set of technical specifications and makes adjustments to the timetable, which begins to provide for the year 2008 as the time for the implementation of the comprehensive national coverage and assuming the need to draw up a specific plan for autonomous regions. In summary, the Council of Ministers resolution of March 2003 establishes the conditions for the installation of the whole system and creates the instruments for the launch of the partnership, including the programme of procedures and the schedule of charges, which would happen in July of that year. The alleged urgency, invoked by the Government of then, to launch the invitation to tender with a deadline for the submission of tenders on the 60-day agenda was based on the need to have the system running at the European Football Championship which Portugal organized in 2004. however, this option proved to be useless in view of the delay in the assessment, which would only be completed in January 2004 four months after the closing of the application period and also because the evaluation committee already considered that the only proposal submitted did not meet the necessary requirements, especially in the economic and financial field, and the then government chose to open a direct negotiation with the proposing consortium with the argument to try to improve the aspects considered negative. following this negotiation in January 2005, the 16th Constitutional Government, already in its current management functions, decided to award the management contract for the design, design, supply, assembly, construction, management and maintenance of the SIRESP to the sole consortium competing for the global value of 538, 2 million euros. Despite being in current management functions only, the Government considered this to be a legitimate act and based its decision on its urgent nature, taking into account the approximation of the critical period of the fires and the fact that since 1999 this network has been considered a priority investment by the Portuguese State. In the light of the doubts that arose soon about the legitimacy of a government in management functions to award this size and with its associated commitments, the XVII Constitutional Government, as soon as it entered office, decided to request a set of clarifications and opinions to the General Inspection of Finance, the Telecommunications Institute, ANACOM ( National Communications Authority ) and the Advisory Council of the Attorney-General of the Republic, with a view to clarifying all the legal, technical and financial doubts raised. The opinions of the Institute of Telecommunications and ANACOM refer to the technical adequacy of the project, leaving, however, doubts about the lack of a basic project, prior to the competition and also about the fact that some standards in the book of charges may be limiting the appearance of more competitors, since each supplier company could only compete with a consortium. However, given that some of the equipment suppliers could also be suppliers of other compatible technical and technological solutions, preventing them from supporting other proposals and associating with different consortia, of course, limited the possibility of more competitors appearing, with all the inconveniences known, including the limitation of competition, even indirectly. This is even more limited, if we take into account the circumstances of the invitations they have been addressed solely to equipment suppliers. Despite these repairs and some others understood as less relevant,... [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] Take it easy, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u109	Mr President, I would like to ask you to allow the speaker to continue to use the floor, and I would ask you to continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u110	Thank you very much, Mr President. Despite these repairs and some others understood as less relevant, the technical opinions considered that the process had generally followed regular procedures at the technical and legal level, with the relevant exception of the award order, which was considered null by the Advisory Council of the Attorney General's Office of the Republic and not by the Court of Auditors, even though it did not preserve the regularity of the procedures prior to the award act. in this context, the government recently in office has decided to approve the opinion of the Attorney-General of the Republic and to cancel the award act. however, and taking into account that the remaining legal acts, prior to the award, were considered to be regular, the tender procedure and its results remained valid. So, and paying attention to the circumstances, two hypotheses were put before the government. First: cancel the previous procedures and restart the entire process which, at this time, already had a considerable delay in relation to the planned schedule, with all the legal and financial consequences and other not less relevant, as was the case with the operational aspect, especially considering that several user entities had already begun to migrate their systems at the time of the Euro 2004, even before the award itself, go there to know why. Alternatively, the second hypothesis that was followed was to open negotiations with the winning consortium, since the competition had not been considered null, and renegotiate the conditions, trying to correct the technical, legal and economic aspects pointed out and signalled in the different opinions issued, thus avoiding the resumption of the entire process, with all that would mean in terms of further delays and costs. After a period of intense negotiations, the system was finally awarded in July 2006 by the then Minister of Internal Administration, António Costa. [[PSD protests.]] Take it easy, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! Take it easy! We are not ashamed of our duties. We have nothing to fear and those who have nothing to fear have no problem! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It's the difference, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! We're not disturbed! I belonged to this government with great honor and challenge - to point out whatever it is to the work of the Ministry of Internal Administration. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] As I was saying after a period of intense negotiations, the System was finally awarded in July 2006 seven years after the start of the first preparatory work, having been reduced by about 55 million euros to the total costs of the project and corrected several issues of the technical and legal forum. following this whole process and the negotiations it involved, the System would start operating only in January 2010, with the aim of progressively covering the entire national territory until 2013. More recently, in 2014 the XIX Constitutional Government — I will not say the name of the Prime Minister, because Mr. Members already know—has opened a new process of financial renegotiation of the System, completed in 2015, having been approved its addition to the SIRESP contract in December of that year, and this is the current contractual version. from this renegotiation, it resulted in a cost reduction in the order of EUR 25 million — i.e. to see that I am impartial in my analyses. Since the start of its operation, the System has been questioned regarding the coverage and quality of network service, especially at critical times, precisely those where the System is expected to demonstrate its efficiency. According to the most recent external assessment carried out in 2014 by the company KPMG, which was hired by the government of then, and which focused on four key indicators relating to the quality of service of the SIRESP network, what was found to be that in relation to these indicators evaluated, specifically with regard to coverage, service level, safety and resilience,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u111	Mr President, I apologize for interrupting, but, although I still have time, I would like to draw your attention to the time already used in your speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u112	But why? Oh, my God! Have I run out of time, Mr. President? Oh, my God! I'm sorry if I've run out of time. [[Laughing.]] As I was saying, in relation to the indicators assessed, in particular with regard to coverage, the level of service, safety and resilience, this report refers to the existence of some gaps, namely the lack of formalisation of a'service continuity plan', but stresses that overall the system meets the levels of service contracted. Moreover, the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Internal Administration itself, as managing entity and supervising the performance of the contract, in successive monitoring reports, has systematically stated that the service is in accordance with the contract, having not until the time of the Pedrogão Grande fire, reported significant anomalies that could question it or allow it to anticipate any collapse of the System. More recently, after the fires of Pedrogão Grande and particularly the tragic events associated with them, contradictory claims about the performance of SIRESP arose. on the one hand, the SIRESP operator report, which ensures that the network corresponded, that it met the requirements of the theatre of operations and that all that happened was due to the saturation of the system. on the other hand, Civil Protection and firefighters accuse the system and hold the network responsible for a set of communication failures that will have had serious consequences in the theatre of operations, especially with regard to the availability of mobile equipment to replace fixed towers struck by fire. In order to clarify these circumstances strictly and to understand how it is possible to overcome this complete contradiction, the Minister of Internal Administration has determined an urgent audit, except error, within 15 days,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u113	Determining who? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u114	... so that the General Inspection of Internal Administration can effectively ascertain what has happened and who is right before these two positions. And so the House last Friday, as has already been said, approved a committee to draw conclusions and allow us to take appropriate action. That is why it seems to us that, from the very beginning, in line with some of the recommendations already known and which have also been presented in the reports that have come to the public,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u115	Mr. Deputies, you've wasted your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u116	... that it is necessary to strengthen the network and service levels. However, it does not seem to us that, by the nature of the complaints, this is a problem which results from the fact that we are facing a public-private partnership, in which the operational management of the system is based. In fact, if it is confirmed that the failures detected are the result of poor contractual coverage, this is a technical problem that needs to be solved, but which does not depend on the nature, public or private, of the entity making operational management.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u117	Mr. Deputies, you have to do the right thing to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u118	That is why, and to conclude, Mr President, the Socialist Party means here that, of course, by not corroborating the idea of moving forward to a nationalization of the System, at least immediately, it does not cease to follow the concerns expressed by the Left Block and, therefore, at the right time and in good time, we are available to discuss, vote and approve what is relevant so that our people will feel the security and tranquility needed, whenever tragedies like this happen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u119	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As I have already had the opportunity to recall today, the SIRESP process is surrounded by singularities, from the public invitation to tender that you have supported, passing through the deadline for the submission of tenders, to the faculty that the Government of Durão Barroso has given to the sole competitor to correct his initial proposal, rather than to make a new contract or a new tender. All of this shows clearly the contours of this contract and also the concerns with the public interest, which are usually left out in the negotiations of public-private partnerships, as happened in the case of SIRESP. The course not only of the formation of the SIRESP contract but also of its development is unclear, or even obscure, full of strange elements. We must also add to these facts the very weaknesses that SIRESP has been demonstrating over time, with regard to the continuation of the responsibilities arising from the contract, weaknesses that have not only begun with the tragedy of Pedrogão Grande, go back to at least 2014, soon after the tragic events of Carregal do Sal. And it is not only the reports of the populations that indicate failures in the SIRESP, it is also the authorities who tell us about the failures in communications not only during the fight against fires but also in simulation operations. The worst thing is that the State does not have the power, for example, to require the consortium a maximum time of replacement of the emergency network if it ceases to operate in a given area. That is to say, in an emergency situation, if the network fails, the state is tied to its feet and hands, but in an emergency situation, this cannot happen. In conclusion, I want to say that the Greens also consider that the SIRESP has been ineffective and therefore unable to guarantee the safety and protection of populations, which is why, and on behalf of the public interest, we also believe that the State should call upon it the Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks of Portugal. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u121	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese have already realized that this is a clear attempt to divert attention from what is essential. The face of the SIRESP is already known to all and is called António Costa. Well, you and the Members may. Members of the PS and the Left Block continue to say that this discussion is about fires. But if so, what justifies now discussing the ownership of SIRESP and not supporting the victims of fires? Oh, my God! Is it more important to discuss SIRESP now than to discuss rapid support for fire victims? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u123	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u124	After days of pain, mourning and grief for the tragic events of the Pedrogão Grande fires, the Portuguese are surprisingly witnessing an unexplained and unpublished sequence of contradictions between the entities with responsibility for preventing and combating fires. The General Secretariat of Internal Administration accuses the National Civil Protection Authority of serious failures; the National Authority says that the fault lies with the SIRESP; the SIRESP says that nothing has failed and the System has been up to; the GNR's preliminary report says that there are no responsibilities. In addition to none of these entities so far assumes any responsibility, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the driving thread of this story, of all this sad show? It is the fact that all these entities depend directly or indirectly on the Minister of Internal Administration. The BE, with this initiative, intends to discuss the ownership of SIRESP. The PSD believes that this discussion is important, but more important, it is technically to clarify the responsibilities for success. More important than knowing whether the SIRESP is public or private is restoring citizens' confidence in authority forces, it is ensuring that the State does not fail again, it is ensuring the protection and tranquility of people and goods, it is ensuring rapid aid to victims, it is also ensuring that the State will not fail again in the monitoring of the system. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, since this government took possession there has never been a single meeting of the SIRESP user council.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u125	Oh, there it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u126	Isn't that weird? Oh, my God! Is it the previous government's fault? Oh, my God! We don't think so! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to clear up the responsibilities, but more importantly, it is time to quickly assist the victims of the Great Pedrogan fires. The State has failed in the disaster, but it cannot fail in the help and support of the victims. The Government has so far done nothing in this regard. The Left Block, by the way, is more concerned with the ownership of SIRESP than with ensuring rapid aid to victims. That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD intends to create a quick compensation fund for fire victims in order to ensure rapid aid to victims. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is one thing we can conclude at this time: that machine called'management', which everyone said was working, seems to have the first failures in the eyes of everyone. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u127	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the CDS, in this final speech, I would like to say that there are, in fact, elements in this debate that are surprising and, I would say, surreal, and one of them is obvious, it goes through the drift of the honourable Members. Members, particularly from the leftmost seats. We spent our lives listening « is the Government of Durão Barroso », « is the Government of Santana Lopes », but we never heard of the government that signed, administered, managed, made the contracts and had the leadership of José Socrates and as Minister of Internal Administration António Costa. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] Mr President, I agree that the previous procedure, even because as we know it did not work for the Euro 2004, which was its objective - Mr José Miguel Medeiros made us here a discriminatory report on all the situations that we already knew, because we had read the specialized books on the subject but, finally, that he went below, that he has fallen. But if it went down, it fell, it was because there really was a problem with it. So we can even admit this, but we know who made this contract. And this is the first thing you miss. The second thing you are forgetting, which is even more serious and from there the question is: how long have you been in government? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u129	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u130	You've been in government for two years! They had more than time! They had Budgets, they had reports, they had information from the SIRESP itself and they didn't solve anything! That's the problem! You guys do all this for what? You do this for a very simple reason: to hide what is the essential point, which is what the CDS has underlined. The essential point is that, in this tragedy, there were problems with the SIRESP, there was discoordination, there were entities to throw the blame on each other, there was the government's inability to respond and there was a minister who clearly did not have the conditions to continue his mandate... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u131	...and that, for that reason, should have already been resigned by Mr. Prime Minister. This is what you gentlemen want to hide! The Left Block, which in the past called for the resignation of a minister for having had a less happy sentence, which wanted heads for everything and for nothing now, wants to discuss the SIRESP. And it has already been realized that the SIRESP will be orphaned, that there will be no father, because this government will never assume paternity. What you want, what the Left Block is actually doing with this debate is focusing on the aspects of multiple failures and multiple discoordinations; they just want to discuss SIRESP and communications. In other words, they want to discuss a 'tree' and thus completely exclude the 'forest' of failures and lack of coordination that exist. And they do not even want to discuss this « tree », they want to discuss a detail, which is who should be their owner, i.e. whether they should be the private or the State. Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, how far beyond the logic of trying to escape a serious discussion! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, recently Mrs Sandra Cunha told us: what you want is private business, private interests! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in this matter I will even surprise you, because it is absolutely indifferent to us whether it is public or private. [[Well, well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u132	Sure! [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u133	For us, it's indifferent! We are not against it being public, we want it to be responsibilities and that is what you want to hide, that is what you want to omit, that is what you do not want to assume. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] For us, it's indifferent! If it is public, let it be public, we have no problem with it, but, as I have told you and I have recently shown, the public does not solve the problem, because if the problem was solved, the hospitals would not be as they are, no weapons were missing from an army paddle, they would not say that they had disappeared... Look, for example, at the Internal Administration — and Mrs. Deputy accompanied this with me — they would not have disappeared 57 guns from the leadership of the PSP. The public being does not resolve, the being of the State, by itself, does not resolve. Mr. PC's officer was saying, a little while ago...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u134	Do PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u135	Right, from the PCP. But Mr. Jorge Machado is more PC than PCP, do me that justice. [[Protests from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]] I was just saying to the PCP Member that he did not want the failure of the State. I mean, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not want the failure of the State. We want someone to take up a position of state and assume the political responsibility it has. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u136	And this can only be done by this government. It's not being done and the Left Block is bleaching this fact. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u137	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Carlos Peixoto.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u138	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We also wanted to make it clear here that the PSD is totally at ease in this debate. It has already been said and has even been documented here. And I'm afraid that the gentlemen. Members speaking here on this subject, Members of this bench on my right side, which is the left side of Parliament, have not read the annual report, page 16, of the PPP(public-private partnership) of the Technical Unit for Project Monitoring ( UTAP ), version of June 2016. It's unsuspecting. Do you know who in June 2016 was Prime Minister? Dr. António Costa! What is said on this page of this report is that the original contract, the one we are discussing and not the one that the PS discussed here, in an absolutely esoteric dream, is a contract of 12 July 2006. Who was the Minister of Internal Administration on 12 July 2006? Dr. António Costa! [[Well remembered!]] [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u139	Moreover, on the same page of the authorship of the current government, it is said that the renegotiation of this contract was approved by the Council of Ministers on 29 December 2015. Who was the Prime Minister on December 29, 2015? [[Well remembered!]] [[Protests by PS MP Filipe Neto Brandão.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u140	Dr. António Costa! [[Protests by PS MP José Miguel Medeiros.]] This contract has the heading, the conclusion, its content, all attributed to Dr. António Costa, the Government and the Socialist Party. Please leave demagogy, we must be serious once and for all. [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u141	It's not worth continuing to beat up what they shouldn't hit, because they're reinciding in a lie. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bloc came to this debate, as has already been said here, acting as a power party, as a opposition party. But you're wrong, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. Everyone, out there and in here, knows that you are the preferred walk of this government. [[Protests from BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]] They are the preferred ally of this government. And therefore they are bound to him that not a blade, for that which is good and for that which is bad. It is that if you, when good things happen, when good news comes, you are right on the podium to receive the medals, it is normal, it is fair—and, indeed, it is part of the democratic decency—which also catch the nuts of what is bad. This is political solidarity and this is what you should lend to the Socialist Party. But no, they don't. What are you guys saying here? They move forward with an initiative that had an objective. The goal was to take the discussion to the remote history, where you were not, to whiten the most recent story, where you are body and soul.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u142	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u143	This is the big issue. But leave the calendars, the times gone, let's talk about this time, which is your time. Let's talk about this time. Where did the Left Block go in these two years of power? Mrs Sandra Cunha says that SIRESP has already been responsible for deficiencies since 2008. In 2012, where were you at this time? What have you gentlemen done? What did they propose? Why did they not act before the Great Pedragon disaster and now react? [[Protests from BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]] They are now reacting to the tow of this mediatism, saying that they are aces to react after this tragedy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as has been said here, it does not matter whether this is public or private. [[EB, PCP and PS Members' rice.]] That's not what matters!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u144	It doesn't matter, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u145	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I've heard the Left Block... Look at the irony:... [[BE's protests.]] ... imagine that the investigation that will now start to conclude that there have been failures of public entities. What do you propose? That these entities become private? Oh, my God! Is this what you're going to propose? Oh, my God! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are failures and good things both in the public and in the private. We do not know, honestly we do not know, what really happened in this fire, but there is one thing we know: either the Socialist Party,... [[Mr. P. João Galamba's laughs.]] ... either the Left Block said nothing when the government, arguing that it wanted to make a new approach, and go there to know what that is, made a reversal, changed everything or almost everything in jail to put everything in the hands of the National Civil Protection Authority, with the convivence and the announcement of the Left Block. See only: in the National Civil Protection Authority only in 2016 changed 20 of the 36 district commands;...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u146	Oh, there it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u147	... in April 2017, 17 people moved in these positions, in top functions seven people changed to eight. Only these changes had very particular features. One of them was the fact that a commander from the north of the country, for example, did not appear in the appointment office with any professional experience, nor in the National Civil Protection Authority, nor in any other operational command, and that is to be understood — in the area of sport and leisure. But on 15 April 2017, a month before the start of the most acute fire phases, the National Civil Protection Authority exempted a man with given evidence, a man head of communication and computer division, and also moved to Leiria's CDOS (District Command Relief Operations ), now knowing that the order of operations in Pedrogão, on 17 and 18 June, was entrusted to a newly appointed lawyer to the place and now very much connected to the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u148	A lawyer? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u149	Mr. President and Mr. Finally, I think that two conclusions can be drawn from this debate. The first is that Dr. Costa and PS were surely the parents of SIRESP. It is a paternity that is already years old and the Left Block, skillfully, today managed to politically poison the Socialist Party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u150	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u151	...bringing him to this kind of mess. The second conclusion is that the country, contrary to what one may think, may also insinuate that the uncoordination noted on the ground of Pedrogão Grande may have had a far more distant cause than the SIRESP and much closer to the action of the government, which has moved in what it should not and when it should not. The PSD, Mr. President, and to conclude, is mobilized and I hope all other parliamentary parties and groups are also mobilized...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u152	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u153	...to go to the victims and definitely solve their problems. This is what we are mobilising and this is what we are asking to mobilise also the Assembly of the Republic. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u154	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the speeches made during this debate by my comrade Jorge Machado has already made clear the position of the CFP. We do not agree with solutions that leave state emergency and security communications in the hands of private companies, because these are communications that cannot be at the mercy of economic interests and profit objectives, which will guide any private company, but which cannot be a criterion for managing safety and emergency networks. We are concerned about the situation in which Portugal is today with the existence of a system, such as SIRESP, in the state in which it is and with the framework it has. We are concerned and do not agree with solutions that disregard at all the use of public money to serve profit objectives, leaving completely unprotected the provision of public service and the guarantees of the operation of the communication service with the importance and relevance of the Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks in Portugal. And, obviously, we do not agree with solutions that, after all this has been found, after failures, failures and subsequent failures of this system, seem to want to leave everything in it. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the position of the CFP was very clear, either in relation to what it disagrees with or in relation to what the CFP believes should be the solution to this problem. The solution that we believe should be taken for this problem cannot of course imply a breakdown of the communication system, because, if it is true that the SIRESP has failures, if it is true that the SIRESP does not cover the entire national territory, it is this system that must start to overcome its inadequacies immediately and ensure, in particular this summer, that our civil protection services and security forces are not left without communication systems. Therefore, it is this system that has to start to ensure immediate responses to ensure the maintenance and coverage of the entire national territory of the communications system. But it is obviously necessary to put an end to the public-private partnership which has already demonstrated, on the one hand, not to ensure the communication system when it is necessary and, on the other, to be a ruin for the public interest. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, particularly the PSD and the CDS, what is unacceptable is that, in view of the finding of what SIRESP has been in these years, the response of the PSD and the CDS is that, despite problems, there are communication failures in disaster scenarios, it is not necessary to move in the SIRESP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u156	You're making it up!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u157	You have reached the limit of your time, Mr. Please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u158	If there are populations who have been left without help, because in some circumstances they have failed communications, for the PSD and for the CDS it doesn't matter, it's not worth moving to SIRESP. If INEM ( National Institute of Medical Emergency ) failed to contact operational commands and if firefighters themselves failed to contact on the ground, there is no problem, it does not move on the SIRESP. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is not a response to population problems,... [[PCP applause.]] ... nor is it an answer to the problems that, in a situation of calamity, cannot happen again. [[PCP applause.]] [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]] Finally, Mr President, saying that it is true that this integrated communications, security and emergency system has been created by a government already in management of the PSD / CDS. [[Protests from PSD MP Carlos Peixoto.]] It is true that the contract was remade by the government...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u159	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u160	...of the Socialist Party, which began subsequent functions. It is also true that during the four years when PSD and CDS were in the government they did not move a straw for that contract to be changed or for its operating conditions to change.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u161	And now, in the last two years?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u162	And it's true, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the problems continue to persist. The answer to this has to be the one that PSD and CDS don't want to assume... [[CDS-PP protests.]] ...and, by the way, the Socialist Party is also not available to assume.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u163	Mr. João Oliveira, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u164	In conclusion, Mr President, saying that this is the answer that is required: putting an end to PPP, ensuring the autonomy of the State in matters of emergency and security communications, and that we can have, from the capabilities that exist today in the firefighters and the Armed Forces, the immediate response that ensures that the communications are not in question in the disaster scenario. [[PCP applause.]] This is the answer that has to be assumed,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u165	You cannot continue, Mr João Oliveira. You really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u166	...with the political options that come from there. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u167	You have the floor, for an intervention, in closing the appreciation of draft resolution No 959 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's debate, we have said it and I repeat, is not about what happened in Pedrogan Grande. It was a tragedy and we hope that everything will be fully clarified and all the responsibilities duly shaken. But it is because we must learn that tragedies like Pedrogon Grande may happen that we do not sleep restless until a fundamental change is made in the operation of the SIRESP. This is really the debate that, we understand, several benches did not want to have. Question: Does any Member or Member ensure here the full functioning of the SIRESP? None! No one here said that we are safeguarded by the current operation of the SIRESP. Question: does anyone here reject the indication that SIRESP is, above all, a great business for the private? Nobody! I repeat: no one here rejected this statement. It was even curious to see the dance of the guilt pass between PS, PSD and CDS about who the child's father was, such was the situation in which no one wanted to admit the responsibilities in what is, in fact, a negotiation that has weakened the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u169	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u170	In view of these statements, in view of their conclusions, the next vote is a very important vote. We already know what the PSD says about her. The PSD says it doesn't matter whether the SIRESP is public or private and the CDS even said: "There is a lot to discuss about SIRESP, but whether it should be private or public is not one of them."
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u171	That is not the essential question!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u172	Now, we understand: the negotiation is that it can never be discussed by the PSD and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u173	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u174	There's the problem they want to run away from: the negotiation! That's what we don't accept. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Who was responsible for creating the SIRESP? There's a name, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. His name is Daniel Sanches, Minister of Internal Administration of a PSD Government / CDS. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] When Mr Correia says that the Left Block is now in the government, I must reply to him that there seems to be some doubt about this, because only in his imagination is that this happens.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u175	Oh, is it? Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u176	Listen, listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u177	But on the question whether the CDS was in the government when Daniel Sanches signed to decide by SIRESP, the answer is unequivocal: it was in the Government and in the Internal Administration until his colleague Nuno Magalhães, Mr Telmo Correia. This is the unequivocal answer! [[Congratulations from BE.]] But if there is a PSD and CDS negotiation, the PS, through António Costa, could have said no? The answer is also clear and unequivocal. I could and should have said 'no' at the time you signed the contract! He didn't, he didn't have the courage to defend what was public.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u178	What now? Oh, my God! What about this government?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u179	Now, 10 years later, so many jokes later, so many intermissions after and so many failures after, it was to be expected that the PS had already learned the lesson. And that's the answer we're going to see from here to minutes. That the PSD only now, in the opposition, has stopped believing in the SIRESP, we already realize.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u180	What about the government? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u181	There is public news that, at the time of the Government of Passos Coelho and Paulo Portas, there was a pressure for the SIRESP to reach the whole country. See, for example, the case of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, where there was the pressure to get there, with the sponsorship of the PSD and the CDS! It was hoped that the PS that ruled and ruled the Autonomous Region of the Azores would say: "No, nor think, because this does not guarantee the safety of our populations". But now, in the government, the PS says yes and that it has to stay. That's not understandable, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. That's not understandable!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u182	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u183	I am going to quote a text that is not from anyone in the Left Block, nor is it from anyone on the left who says the following in an article entitled The Country in a network of interests: « The option for a public-private partnership(PPI) was an excellent business for the private involved. The privates of this partner are suspects of the custom: SLN / BPN, PT and BES. Delivering an emergency and security network from the State to private raises many doubts. In order to achieve its coordination objectives, it must include all security forces and services ». however, until 2014 the judicial police did not integrate this network, because they did not trust the security of this network. Now, whoever made these statements was just the Secretary of State of the PSD and the CDS who in 2013 / 2014 was renegotiating this PPP. And it simply concludes with the following: « The only way to have a real strategic network to serve the public interest is with the State to manage ». Mrs. Members of the PSD and the CDS, we already realize that they do not hear the Left Block, believe that there is an ideological drift on this matter. I ask them, then, if you hear Fernando Alexandre, Secretary of State of the Internal Administration of your Government, in what he knows and you have appointed him to negotiate. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u184	And this Prime Minister? Nothing?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u185	Are you listening to this Secretary of State? Then we'll see how they vote next! Mr President, I conclude with an idea: what is being discussed here is part of a much deeper problem about how the various governments, particularly those on the right, have failed the State and then turned security into private.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u186	What about the Minister? Nothing?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u187	We see this in SIRESP, but we also see this when strategic functions of State sovereignty are delivered to private security companies. Question, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we will not have more surprises about this in the near future. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u188	It is this government that has to answer! [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u189	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the first item on the agenda, which was a marking of the Left Block. Point 2 refers to a possible vote of this draft at the end of the debate and the Bureau has been informed that the vote will be taken now. Before we proceed to the vote, I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to take account of the file which has been entered into the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u190	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, Parliamentary assessment No 39 / XII ( 2. ( a ) — Decree-Law No 66 / 2017 of 12 June establishing the Legal Regime for the Recognition of Forest Management Entities ( BE) and draft resolution No 963 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Assessment of the Report on Portugal in the European Union 2016 ( Commission on European Affairs ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-05.u191	Let us then check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot do so will have to signal to the Bureau and then make the presence, so that their presence at the meeting is considered. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 193 presences, to which are added those of the MPs Ascension Simões, João Torres and Luís Soares, of the PS, and Assumption Cristas and Filipe Anacoreta Correia, of the CDS-PP, making 198 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 959 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government denounce the contract with the SIRESP Society, SA, by recovering to the State the Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks of Portugal, on behalf of the public interest and ensuring the safety and protection of populations ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. We will meet tomorrow at 3 p.m. with the following agenda: at point one by CDS-PP marking, Bill No. 565 / XIII will be appreciated ( 2 ). ( a ) — Rights of end-of-life sick persons ( CDS-PP ) ; in point two we will have the opinion of the 2015 General State Account and in point three there will be the vote at the end of the debate. Before closing the session, I recall that there will now be the opening of the exhibition on the 150-year abolition of the death penalty. I wish everyone else a good afternoon and until tomorrow. [[It was 17 hours and 16 minutes.]]
