ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries to the public. Mrs. Members, let us start today's agenda with the joint debate, in general, of Bill No 61 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — establishes the legal regime for the prevention, prohibition and combat of discrimination on the basis of racial and ethnic origin, colour, nationality, descent and territory of origin and the projects of lein. 470 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the system of penalties applicable to discrimination due to disability by amending Article 240. the Criminal Code ( CDS-PP ) and 471 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Penal Code by strengthening the fight against racial discrimination (BE). For an intervention, Mr Under-Secretary-General has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The theme that today brings together the Assembly of the Republic, the fight against racial and ethnic discrimination based on color, nationality, descent or territory of origin, is a central element of the Portuguese identity, constitutional principles, establishing a country characterized by the affirmation of tolerance, the relationship with other peoples and the ability to integrate, whether migrants or refugees. We hold this debate when we hold 20 years on the first debates held in the Assembly of the Republic, on petitions on the subject, on the establishment of specific rules to combat racial discrimination. Portugal has been considered, in all international assessments, as a country that stands out for good practices in this area, being a reference in the European framework, irrespective of whether we assume, in perceptions transmitted in public and civic life, issues that have to do with specific communities or with specific situations of conflict. Today, when the themes of xenophobia, racism and hatred to each other are, unfortunately, particularly relevant in the international context, it is the right time for us to update our debate on this matter in this House. And we do it - giving operational powers to the High Commissioner for Migration ( ACM ), creating a permanent structure for the treatment of these topics. We do so by establishing an increased intervention in the area of work and concentrating on the High Commissioner for Migration all the interventions that are, in a very uncoordinated way, developed by the various sectoral inspections. On the other hand, we strengthen the rights of participation. It is significant that, in addition to anti-racist associations, representatives of the Roma community will for the first time be present in the Committee on Equality and Against Racial Discrimination (ICDR ), as for the first time in Portuguese legislation, protection is guaranteed in relation to situations of multiple discrimination or discrimination by association. Yesterday, in the Council of Europe, I was proud to see Portugal's praise from speakers from other countries for our role in welcoming migrants or refugees. It is this tradition, this consensus, that we want to improve and extend with this law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u3	Mr Vania Dias da Silva has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u4	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs State Secretary and Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members : I would begin by saying that, of course, discriminatory practices, whatever they are, attack the rule of law and a basic principle of our Constitution, which is the principle of equality and non-discrimination, as enshrined in Article 13. the Constitution. Although Portugal is not an extreme case, when compared with other countries of the world, the truth is that prejudice continues to exist, and we know that. If we need to work very hard on the prevention and change of mentalities, we also have the notion that we need to suppress, as it has been done.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u6	in the area of disability, where I wanted to focus, there has been an increase in the number of complaints, from year to year. Basically, this increase in the number of complaints has occurred without any consequences. The 10-year experience of the counter-ordinary regime in our country has also told us that this regime is clearly insufficient to address the problem. In addition, the issue of discrimination must, in our view, be seen as a whole. The law must punish, in a muscular manner, acts against persons with disabilities who, normally, in the area of discrimination, are forgotten and relegated to the background. What do we do with our bill? We do not increase the penalties, we maintain them, but we have included in the role of incriminations for racial, religious and sexual discrimination, people with disabilities, not only for a reason of system coherence — that is a main reason — not only because the existing regime is clearly insufficient, but above all because of fairness and justice and, essentially, to punish and punish effectively those who practice discriminatory acts in relation to persons with disabilities. This is also in line with the guidelines of the UN Commission on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities ( the United Nations ), which urged Portugal to review its legislation to harmonize with the Convention on Persons with Disabilities and effectively punish offenders. It is mentioned in the report that there is a certain inefficiencies in legal remedies available in Portugal in this area, and that is why it makes sense to address this issue here. We must not forget the story. Sometimes people ask us whether it would make no sense to include disability in other matters and we remember that there were times that were fortunately not to return and that we hope they do not rise again — in which there was indeed no discrimination against ethnicity or against race, but there was also effective discrimination and heinous crimes against persons with disabilities. So this is something that we should not forget and should always keep in mind, because history always teaches us a lot. Furthermore, the role of penalties in the criminal system has not only a special preventive function, i.e. to the offender, but also a general preventive function, i.e. to warn the whole society about the fact that there are acts that are barbaric and that attack people's dignity and therefore are banned and constitute a crime. What we want to do is to protect more and improve the protection of people with disabilities, allow them to have an equitable and dignified existence and, I repeat, include them in a role that they are remote today and that, in our view, they should not be, because all the practices of attacks on people and discriminatory of the human condition must be penalized. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u7	I now give the floor to Mr José Manuel Pureza for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Vegeting access to a public place to someone, why is he a gypsy, should or should not be a crime and be treated as such? To make it difficult to access health care or not to rent a walk to someone, because of the color of your skin, should or should not be a crime and be treated as such? Racism is an indisputable reality in Portuguese society. It is expressed not only in exuberant and brute terms, on time, but also in a naturalized, current manner, in behaviors and speeches of every day. It happens that these racist behaviors and discourses cannot be accepted as mere inconveniences or merely gestures of lack of education. No, racism is an attack on the dignity of people and the practices of racial discrimination must be the subject of maximum social and legal disapproval. And that has a name: crime. Almost two decades of application of a counter-ordinary approach to these practices, penalizing them with fines, has proved to be very ineffective, in a legal and cultural struggle that must be of maximum intensity. To insist on this formula is not to acknowledge that there is an area of social life in which it is more indisputable to underestimate discrimination practices is precisely the diversity of ethnic backgrounds or origins. We do not make criminalization a fetish, but we are deeply convinced that if the most abject practices of racial discrimination do not constitute crimes, it is all the task of combating racism that will be diminished. The draft law presented by the Left Block today specifically aims to place in criminal law an adequate response to the severity of racist behaviour, without which the State and society are free to lay the hands on all other useful instruments to combat racial discrimination. To this end, our bill assumes three main guidelines: they identify specific discriminatory practices worthy of maximum rejection, qualifying them as a crime; they aggravate the penalties for crimes of injury or defamation, whenever they result in racial discrimination; and they apply to this type of crime the public crime regime. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Racism is the opposite of the culture of human rights advocated by the Constitution of the Republic. All determination is needed to combat it. The Left Block has always been in this fight and is returning to it today, challenging that we, as legislators, give a step of responsibility and frontality, which is absolutely necessary: criminalizing racism in the law, because it is a crime in life. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u9	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Angela Guerra.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u10	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: With the proposed law being discussed today, it is intended to « promote the existence of legislative instruments which systematize and update the legislation produced in the framework of equality and non-discrimination policies... », opposing «... the legislative dispersion which has been accentuated in this context and to adjust the regime to the latest guidelines on national, European and international public policy(...) », with a view to «... a more efficient and effective fight against the phenomenon of discrimination », in its multiple dimensions. In other words, the legislative initiative has as its first aim to compile legislation on this subject, which is currently being dispersed. Nothing to oppose as far as the genesis of this proposal is concerned. The issue of discrimination is today an indisputable issue in our legal order and it is in this sense that it assumes a cultural and civilizational dimension in safeguarding the rights, freedoms and guarantees listed in the constitutional text, in particular in Article 13. o, which enshrines the principle of equality. Discriminatory attitudes in access to employment, in the supply of goods or services, or in the normal exercise of economic activity, as well as refusal to sell or lease property, refusal or limitation of access to public places, limitation in health or education establishments, on the basis of criteria of race, colour, nationality or ethnic origin, should deserve us clear and unequivocal repudiation and should be punished, even if they do not fall within the concept of criminal law. The PSD Parliamentary Group essentially welcomes the content of the proposed law under discussion, insofar as it reflects the concept of citizenship that we have always been able to implement and develop, demonstrating the permanent opening of paths for its effective exercise and recognition. however, we must not fail to point out some weaknesses that the Government's proposal deserves. With the extension of the scope and powers which the proposed law intends to commit to the Commission for Equality and Against Racial Discrimination, in particular those laid down in Article 8. the introduction of the conflict mediation institute, which also has the intervention of this Commission, does not seem to us to be guaranteed the conditions necessary to comply with it. Is this entity equipped with the human and administrative means appropriate to its new competences in order to have adequate response capacity? Another issue that deserves our attention is the possibility of associations as assistants in the proceedings. in the proposed law it is intended to make a qualitative leap, enabling the associations so desired. We believe, however, that this regulatory amendment lacks improvement, particularly with regard to the applicable arrangements, since the possibility of setting up an assistant does not fall within the current general regime of the counter-ordering process. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, as regards the initiative of the CDS-PP, we consider the underlying idea to include discrimination on the basis of disability, although from a technical and legal point of view the PSD Parliamentary Group believes that there would be more appropriate legislative solutions than the extension of the scope of Article 240. the Criminal Code. As regards the legislative initiative of the Left Block, its wording gives us some reservations, in particular with regard to the proposed amendment to Article 240. the inclusion of the word « in particular» without a general rule of which there are objective criteria. As such, it seems to us that there is a violation of the principle of equality and that there is a problem of constitutionality, because there is not enough guarantee of security clarity as to cases where there will be a crime. It is recalled that criminal law must be expressed, true and precise.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u11	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u12	I will now finish, Mr President. Finally, and also with regard to the proposal from the Left Block, we have serious doubts regarding the allocation of public nature to crimes of defamation or injury resulting from discrimination of race, colour, ethnic origin, nationality, religion or sex, considering the eminently personal nature of the legal good in question in this type of crime. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u13	For an intervention, Mrs Elza Pais of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Deputy Minister, Secretary of State for Citizenship and Equality and Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs: I begin by welcoming the Government for the submission of a bill that makes it more effective to combat racial discrimination and xenophobia and to strengthen the protection of victims and their access to law. The Government, by placing in its Programme, which now complies with this proposal, the fight against inequalities and discrimination, in particular on the basis of racial or ethnic origin and religion, is fulfilling international commitments as set out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the United Nations Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination and the Charter of Fundamental Rights. Equality and non-discrimination are fundamental principles of the European Treaty, which is now 60 years old, this area of freedoms and guarantees, and these are constitutional principles that we have been fulfilling. Our country is a country of good practice in anti-discrimination policy, having even anticipated the obligations that came later to be defined in the directive to combat discrimination on the basis of racial or ethnic origin. We are therefore proud of our pioneering in the matter of non-discrimination based on race, colour, nationality and ethnic origin. We have occupied the summit sites in the world rankings of policies for the social integration of immigrants. This bill translates the strengthening of political strategies against discrimination and constitutes a new and significant advance in the construction of a society that everyone integrates and nobody excludes. We therefore stress, as has already been said, the extension of the concept in the line of European understandings of non-discrimination to multiple discriminations — such as being women and gypsies, which is a multiple discrimination with aggravated losses — and also discrimination by association. We also stress that discriminatory practices are considered when access to health, education, work and culture is denied or restricted, which has now been integrated, as well as the formation of classes in educational establishments according to discriminatory criteria, as has already happened with classes specifically made up of Gypsies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u15	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u16	We also note the strengthening of the powers of the ICCDR, the strengthening of the rights of participation, the mediation of conflicts, and it should therefore be emphasized that the powers of this Commission and the instructional powers of the ACM will greatly contribute to the effectiveness and the increase in reporting of situations so far hidden. This is therefore a good bill that protects victims, strengthens access to law and will contribute to the release of discriminatory practices. A good step forward, therefore, in combating discrimination and xenophobia. The proposals of the Left Block and the CDS are of another kind and of course we can and will be willing to discuss them in the field of expertise. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u17	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u18	Mr President, Deputy Minister, Secretary of State for Citizenship and Equality and Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: It would begin with a reference to Law No 134 / 1999, which, as stated in the explanatory statement of the proposal for a government law, was « a pioneer in the definition of a legal regime to combat discrimination on grounds of race, colour, nationality and ethnic origin, anticipating the obligations arising from that directive », of the Community Directive which would enter into force a few months later. I would like to make this reference because the PCP Parliamentary Group is proud to have taken the original initiative which gave rise to this Act No 134 / 1999, the first law on racial discrimination in Portugal. I also wanted to make a reference to then Mrs Celeste Correia, a Socialist, Luso-Caboverdian deputy, who was also the author of a legislative initiative submitted by the PS that coincided with the PCP bill and both gave rise to Law No 134 / 1999. I believe that it was a legislative instrument that honored our country very much in the national and even international context, because its pioneering was not only in Portugal, it was also European, so at the time that this law made its life cycle and that it will now be repealed by another that will develop it, I believe that we can make this reference. Indeed, it is more current than ever before that the Portuguese legal system is developed with regard to combating all types of discrimination but, of course, with a special impact on effective compliance with Article 13. the Constitution, which enshrines the principle of equality. That Article 13. it is not a mere proclamation, but that there is, in fact, a legislative instrument that removes consequences of the violation of the principle of equality, even in penal terms, and that it also provides the Portuguese State with practical instruments for the realization of this right. in this sense, the proposal for the creation of the Commission against Racial Discrimination was presented. We have some concern about the vast range of competences that are assigned to it — not that this is wrong — with the capacity that this Commission can have to fulfil so many competences. Obviously, the High Commissioner needs to give decisive support so that the Commission can effectively fulfil the vast range of competences assigned to it. We also believe that in terms of the composition of the Commission there should be some improvement, because it seems to us that the Assembly of the Republic is little represented, i.e. there are eight representatives of the Government — we have nothing against it, they are various ministries — but only two representatives indicated by the Assembly of the Republic, which seems to us to be short. It seems to us that this proposal, by two representatives of the Assembly of the Republic, is still a proposal for the time of governance.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u19	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u20	I will finish, Mr. President. We propose, in our specialty, that the Assembly of the Republic indicate five representatives in order to ensure a more plural representation in this body which may become of great importance in combating racial discrimination in Portugal. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u21	For an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : Today's proposals by the Government, the CDS and the Left Block come, well, bring more measures to combat discrimination on the basis of racial and ethnic origin, color, nationality, descent, territory of origin and disability. The NAP believes that protection for people suffering from this type of discrimination should, in fact, be strengthened. But we can go further. in the exposition of reasons of the Government's proposal there are several documents cited that point not only to the express prohibition of discrimination on grounds of race, colour or ethnic origin, but also to a wide range of categories of discrimination. If it is true that we already see an effort here to counter the legislative dispersion that exists in this area, we are still far from seeing in this proposal a truly cross-cutting legislative instrument. The Government's own programme points out the need for the creation of a law of equality and non-discrimination which properly congregates and articulates prevention, prohibition and combating other types of discrimination, in particular on the basis of religion, social status, sexual orientation or gender identity. We here want to affirm our commitment to the presentation of contributions in the field of expertise for a parliamentary proposal that will move towards this. We are increasingly convinced and convinced that the legislation is dispersed and the lack of communication between the various bodies working in the area of discrimination constitutes real barriers to its mitigation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u23	In addition to the time available for the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr José Manuel Pureza now speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We believe that there is an essential issue that is being played in this debate, namely whether we insist on a refinement of the system of fines in combating discrimination and, in particular, racial discrimination, or whether we also take a step towards consecrating in the law forms of maximum social disapproval of the most abject practices of racial discrimination. The Left Block project goes in this direction and for three reasons. First of all, on an issue of effectiveness; secondly, on a matter of principle: racism is really something that in our society is and must be the subject of maximum social disapproval, but now, too, by a matter of ease of compensation to victims, because in the criminal process the action of compensation is related to the process that is under way, while in the system of counter-ordinations, as you know, it is necessary to try an autonomous action and this really makes it difficult to compensate the victims. Finally, I believe that, at the end of this debate, it is necessary to note that there is some welcome, a sensitive welcome so that we can discuss this path in particular. We will do everything we can to make a sensitive majority, to take this step, to make the country take this determined step, very lucid in combating racism, because, I repeat, racism is a crime in life, it must be a crime in law. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u25	For an intervention, Mr. Under-Secretary-General Eduardo Cabrita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like, at the end of this debate, firstly, to welcome what I believe to be a broad consensus—with plural formulations, of course—in the first place, on a Portuguese vision in which we were pioneers, even at the end of the last century, adopting legislation that combats racial discrimination, secondly, the currentity of the topic and, thirdly, the possibility of, in the specialty, introducing matters which confirm what is innovative in this diploma: the reference to issues of descent or territory of origin, decisive in the treatment of the Afro-descendant communities, the participation of representatives of the Roma community, who will begin to integrate the ICCDR, the creation of an executive structure in the ICCDR that responds to the difficulties of increasing competence. We hope that, in committee, we will consider, with weight, the division between matters in which we need effective counter-ordering intervention and those which, in accordance with the principles of good practices of criminal law, should be elected to subject to punishment under criminal law. With the government, of course, we will be able to deepen a path that led us to a good law in 1999 and by this debate I am sure that it will lead us to a better law in 2017. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u27	At the end of this debate, we proceeded to the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.os 457 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amendment to the law establishing the schemes for the linkage of careers and remuneration of employees who perform public functions ( PSD ) and 475 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establish conditions for equality between workers in career progression by managerial option ( CFP ). To present the PSD bill, you have the floor of Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Combating injustice and defending workers' rights is not the exclusive heritage of any party. With this bill, the PSD intends to solve an injustice. For years, some municipalities, from north to south of the country, passing through Madeira, did not implement the SIADAP evaluation system (Integrated Management and Performance Assessment System in the Public Administration ), a situation that affected workers. With this initiative, the PSD resolves, once and for all, inequality of treatment and discrimination between evaluated workers and non-assessed workers. The current scenario is this: the legislator wanted to say one thing, financial inspection entities say another thing, the municipal chambers are waiting for clarification and the courts are called to intervene. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is essential to enable this interpretative standard and to clarify that workers cannot be harmed by the non-implementation of evaluation systems. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is the legal tool that was missing so that the authorities can return, with retroactive effects and without recourse to the courts, the money owed to the unassessed workers. With this solution, the pending cases of workers from various municipalities, such as the Ribeira Brava, Castelo Branco, Évora, Illhavo, among many others, are solved. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot fail to mention our strangeness by just one party on the left following our legislative initiative. We want to believe that the other parties, who so much cherish the flag of workers, will vote in favour of this PSD initiative. Mr President, no party has a paternity on justice and workers' rights. We are proud of our tradition and reformist practice. There are parties that act as if they own the rights of workers. It is not enough to talk about workers' rights. More important than speaking is to implement and, with this initiative, the PSD implements and solves one of the problems of workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u29	Now, it's easy!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u30	Ladies and gentlemen. Members: After leaving a bankruptcy period, we cannot accept that wage inequalities continue to be accentuated, as has been reported today. This is not the way we stand for Portugal. in a serious and responsible way, the PSD has always demonstrated the ability to balance and manage resources, without damaging the public accounts and without paralyzing the Public Administration. That is why we believe that Portugal can only have a better future with more growth, more and better employment and the creation of more wealth. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u31	To present the PCP bill, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's discussion proves very objectively that there were only advantages in placing the PSD on the opposition. in this debate, it is clearly confirmed that the PSD has only some use in the opposition and not in the government. When opposed, the PSD follows the CFP's proposal to recognize the rights of workers of local and regional administration; when it is in government, short wages, it increases working hours, it vetoes hundreds of collective public employer agreements that ensured 35 hours of work per week. We can therefore conclude that it was worth putting the PSD on the opposition. [[PCP applause.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, SIADAP has introduced evaluation processes in the Public Administration which create problems and discrimination. This situation, which lies in the nature of the process and its application, was associated with the fact that entities and services, which did not have the evaluation system implemented, did not have any evaluation for years. Law No. 12 -A / 2008, subsequently adapted to local authorities by Decree-Law No. 209/2009, provides for the possibility of modifying the remuneration of workers by managerial option. The generality of the municipalities resulted in the remuneration position of the workers by managerial option, so as not to impose situations of inequality between the workers assessed and the workers not evaluated, these latter due to facts that were not imputed to them. However, there were interpretations of inspection entities that applied fines to the authorities, since they understood that progression could not occur in these terms. in this sequence, the workers of the local administration of these authorities tried to defend their rights and maintain their acquired rights by virtue of the repealed decisions amending the remuneration position of workers by management option. Regardless of the courts being in favour of the claim of workers, there are still those who seek justifications for maintaining inequalities between the workers assessed and the workers not evaluated, the latter, I would point out again, because they are not imputable to them. It is therefore necessary to correct this injustice and clarify the law by ensuring equal treatment for all workers in these conditions. It is urgent to resolve this situation, putting an end to the inequalities in the treatment of the various workers and ensuring that the workers concerned are restored the acquired rights relating to their remuneration position. Today, the CFP presents a solution to the problems of these workers and will not abdicate from going further in the struggle for the right to defreeze careers for all local, central and regional employees. The defrosting of careers is to establish justice and an essential dimension of the valorisation of workers and the guarantee of quality public services. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u33	For an intervention, Mrs. Wanda Guimarães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : These two bills are virtually coincident in the statement of reasons invoked and are in harmony with the objective to be achieved, which is an interpretative clarification of the norm relating to changes in the pay position of workers, by management option. I'd like to leave three preliminary notes. The first relates to the fact that this matter has not been the subject of any mention in the hearings we held regarding the professional valuation of workers in public functions ( TFP ), nor is it part of the agreement signed by the same entities and by the Government, nor was it even included in a package of amendments submitted by the CFP. Now, we want to reaffirm here that we believe that the best way of valuing and credible trade union organisations is not to give in to the temptation of sometimes replacing them but, rather, to provide conditions of effectiveness between the parties, opening up negotiating space. The second note is as follows: As is known, changes in the remuneration position can be made in two ways, namely, by management option, or mandatory, when the worker has accumulated 10 points. The third footnote relates to the following: Law No. 12 -A / 2008 of 27 February, was repealed by Law No. 35 / 2014 of 20 June, which approved the General Law on Public Works ( LTFP ). Although the transitional rules covered by Articles 88 have been excluded from the notice of revocation. o 115. the projects in question refer to Article 113. the, does not cease to be true that, in our view, the Law 2008 is repealed. however, this point lacks further explanation and argumentation. Article 113. the 2008 Act is a standard inserted in the « Transitional and final provisions », intended to regulate performance assessments in the years 2004 to 2007 for the purpose of changing the remuneration position and is limited to the years 2004 to 2007, and only to this period, and the allocation, in cases of absence of assessment, at one point per year not evaluated, refers only to the case of mandatory change in the remuneration position for the purpose of accounting points. It therefore seems to us at least controversial to apply the provisions of Article 113 ( 7 ) to the amendment of the remuneration position. the, given this regulation has on the allocation of points only for the purposes of mandatory change of remuneration position, while the other option is governed by different standards. Having said that, there is no charge for the lack of evaluation of workers—it is necessary to make this very clear. Employers have neglected their obligations and it is not fair for workers to be harmed.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u35	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u36	I'm done now, Mr. President. This is a case, in a certain way, atypical, but, being concerned with rights acquired by workers, we are available, as always, to evaluate any alternatives that protect the injured workers, as it has been, in fact, the brand of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u37	Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In principle, the CDS considers that progress in the career of civil servants and, among them, municipal officials should always be done by merit. That is the criterion, and that must be the main criterion. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u39	For this, its evaluation is fundamental, it is a piece without which the system does not work. We know there are municipal officials who have been evaluated and there are those who have not. There is a duality of treatment between them, which causes injustice. There are those who are being harmed. Now, to find a solution, we cannot forget a few questions. Is it acceptable to forget that there are authorities that did not carry out assessments that were required by law? Should the legislator pass a sponge on the waste? We have the greatest doubts that this is the solution. To replace an assessment of merit with a progression based only over time causes many doubts, which cannot therefore be forgotten. On the other hand, as far as the effects of this amendment are concerned, we do not fail to point out that the CFP wishes it to be retroactive, i.e. to have effect since its adoption, without quantifying the effects of such a decision. In addition, I recall that this is a law of the Socialist Party and that the CDS, although even in line with some of its principles, voted against the law at the time and, in the specialty, even voted against this same article. We also find it strange how little time we had to prepare for this debate. The truth is that there has not been a public consultation, we do not yet have opinions of both the civil servants' unions, either of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities or, what might also be useful, of the National Association of Freguesias. It was important to have these opinions in order to have a more informed debate and well-founded solutions. We also know that this is a year of autarchical elections and I think that no one wants this debate, which is very important for officials in this situation, to be contaminated by being determined by electoral concerns.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u41	I don't think that's the wish of anyone here. What I can say is that the CDS will always be available to find solutions based on merit and correct injustices that these workers are not to blame. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u42	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Joana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u43	Mr. President, the law determines that career progression and the remunerative valuation of civil servants have as their criterion the performance assessment within the framework of SIADAP ( integrated management and performance assessment system in the Public Administration ). The fact is that, due to the freezing of career progressions and the absence of long-term remunerative valuations, some services, in some way, felt that they were also excused from making the assessment of their workers within the framework of SIADAP, thus causing workers to be harmed by not having been evaluated during the period when careers were frozen.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u45	We could have a debate about who's been holding frozen careers and who's going to freeze careers, but that's not the debate we're doing here today. Today we have to discuss the following: there are workers who have the right to progress in their career, and how they will progress in their career, whether management or not, each of the parties will have an opinion, and the Left Block is even critical of this managerial way of career progression. And, to progress in the career, which is your right, they have to be evaluated, and on how they will be evaluated, each of the parties will have an opinion, and the Left Block even went against the SIADAP. But the truth is that career progression is a right of workers and that right is being removed from the office because of a mistake that cannot be imputed to them. That is why the Left Block is obviously available to correct this injustice. They do not ask us to forget that we are correcting a problem that has been created, not by law, but by the municipalities that have not evaluated their workers. If career progression is a right of workers and if to progress they have to have performance evaluation, then performance evaluation is a requirement of municipalities before their workers, without which they cannot access a right. Therefore, in this sense, we also believe that, in addition to correcting this injustice, it is necessary to leave a note of accountability of these municipalities that did not, when they should, what they had to do to protect the rights of their workers, and nothing that they can present today will clear this responsibility. We will correct, yes, the problem of these workers, because they have the right to career progression and do not have the blame for what has happened, but we also have to reflect on the responsibility of the municipalities that did not evaluate them. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u46	Mrs Rita Rato has the floor for a new speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to this debate, I would like to say that we really believe that it is not fair for the workers of the authorities and the regional governments who, on a managerial basis, have taken this option to be adversely affected by career progression because it is not imputable to them. It was not by decision that they were not evaluated, it was by decision of their hierarchical superiors, and, in this matter, we believe that the proposal that the CFP brought here corresponds to a claim from all the workers who tried judicial actions against decisions that were unfavourable to them and guarantees equal treatment in this situation. We also understand, therefore, that no more time should be wasted on this process, that workers should not lose more money with resources to the courts, because we are also talking about the conditions for access to justice, and that steps should be taken to clarify this rule. We therefore believe that the opportunity we have today, with regard to this matter, should not be wasted. Another thing is to discuss the need, the urgency and the fundamental right to career progression and the requirement of defrosting careers for all employees of the Public Administration, because the CFP has repeatedly brought this proposal, that of defrosting careers, and the PS, the PSD and the CDS — in particular the PSD and the CDS, for four years, have prevented this discussion. from the PCP side, here we will be to solve this problem today and for, in 2018, we will fight for the defreezing of careers for all employees of the Public Administration. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u48	That's what it's gonna be!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u49	For the last intervention on this point in our agenda, Mrs Sara Madruga da Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u50	Mr President, Mrs Rita Rato, we are going to speak the truth and clarify the Portuguese. It was the PSD who first presented this initiative, which will solve the problem of workers. So, it's the PCP that's going to the PSD trailer... [[Good! All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u51	You want a medal?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u52	...and it's not the PSD that's going to the PCP trailer. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u53	He wants you to make him a bust!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u54	Mrs Wanda Guimarães, these initiatives are the only way to solve these problems right now, and it is the responsibility of the Assembly of the Republic to do so. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] Mrs. Joana Mortágua, the municipalities did not evaluate the workers at the time they were due because the transposition of legislation to local authorities only occurred in 2006. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is worth remembering that it was not the left party that saved the bankruptcy country, it was the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u55	All right! It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u56	It is worth remembering that it was not the PS that prevented public servants from getting their salaries, it was the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u57	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u58	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u59	I'm done, Mr. President. It is worth remembering that it was not the left that started the reinstatement of incomes but the PSD! [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] The PSD was the first party to restore 20 % of workers' wages.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u60	All right! [[Protests from PCP MP Miguel Tiago.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u61	Just to finish, it is also worth noting that who started the cuts in workers' salaries was the PS. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u62	Mrs. Members, we thus conclude the debate, in general, of the projects of lein. 457 and 475 / XIII ( 2. ( a). We moved on to the third point of the order of business, of which is the general assessment of the projects of lein. 436 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Alter the Civil Code, eliminating discrimination between men and women in matters of international time ( BE ), 472 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Review the legal regime of impediments enshrined in the Civil Code, revising the time limits applicable to the conclusion of marriages ( PS ), with the initial text of this diploma being replaced at the request of the author, and 474 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Ensures the individual freedom of each person to enter into marriage by eliminating the period of time provided for in Article 1605. the Civil Code ( PAN ). For the first time in this debate, Mrs Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: It has been 40 years since the revision of the Civil Code and yet we still find rules that let us think about what century we are in after all. The Civil Code provides for a period that serves as a basis for the dissolution of a marriage and the celebration of a new marriage, but this period is different for men and women. For example, if you are a Member of the European Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen want to get married after a divorce, they can do so 180 days ago; already Members have to wait 300 days.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u64	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u65	And, as if this difference was not enough, if women wanted to enter marriage within the same time limit as men, after 180 days of divorce, have to present a medical certificate proving that they are not pregnant.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u66	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u67	This unequal treatment and this permanent suspicion of women, which are based on a conservative and paternalist view that confers a minority and limits the freedom and self-determination of women, are not new, but are not more acceptable today.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u68	Madam Member, you will excuse me for interrupting, but I would like to appeal to the House, especially to the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen who are not properly accommodated, who created conditions for all Members. Members may express and be duly heard. Sorry to interrupt, Mrs. Sandra Cunha. Please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u69	It's okay, Mr. President. Thank you very much. One of the reasons for the existence of this standard in the 1966 Civil Code is the social decoration, lending the State a function of moral reserve and guardian of good customs—we were in 1966. Half a century later, this concept is no less than conservative, retrograde and paternalist, in a society of emancipated men and women, in a democratic and equal society that we all help to build every day.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u70	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u71	The other reason is related to the presumption of paternity: it is assumed that the child born of a woman is considered to be the daughter of the husband. This is the architecture of our family law. But if we can understand, in the light of the time, these concerns, today, with the advancement of science and paternity tests, the biological truth of paternity is easily measured and this argument therefore loses its value. Furthermore, the Civil Code itself already provides for the resolution of conflicts of double presumption of paternity. In addition to all this, this standard is completely blind to the current social reality and current social configuration, even being ridiculous, because it applies to any woman, including lesbians and women of non-fertile age. Women may be 60, 70 or 80 years old, but if they want to marry within the same time frame as men, they must present a medical certificate proving they are not pregnant. With this bill, the Left Block Parliamentary Group intends to address further this discrimination affecting women, proposing that the rules should be equal for men and women in terms of international time. Finally, I would like to welcome the proposals of the PS and the PAN, which follow the direction of the Left Block project and which demonstrate an important consensus on this issue, which we hope will result in a legislative approval which will eliminate this inequality at once. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in this respect we are late 36 years for Spain and 12 years for France. These countries, which also had this rule, have already seen the ridicule of this imposition and the injustice of this inequality. It is more than Portugal's time to take this step and finally enter the 21st century. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u72	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Fernando Anastácio.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The three bills currently under discussion, in particular Bill No 472 / XIII ( 2. a ), by the authorship of the Socialist Party, aims and wishes to review the legal regime of impediments enshrined in the Civil Code, reviewing the time limits applicable to the celebration of marriages in order to ensure the end of discrimination between men and women and to ensure individual freedom to enter into marriage. The legislative initiatives under discussion, all of them, have a common trunk that deserves our attention: they all aim to enhance individual freedom in the decision to enter into marriage and to ensure the full application of the principle of equality, which, without prejudice to the fact that we do not follow all the solutions listed in them, has already been welcomed. the entry into force of the 1966 Civil Code in June of this year is exactly 50 years old, which, despite having undergone significant changes in 1977, with regard to the regulations on impediments, has essentially maintained its genesis. We are aware that the rule of Article 1605. the, which provides an internal period of 180 days for men and 300 days for women to be able to marry in case of dissolution of the previous marriage, has, in its genesis, assumptions based on social conventions dated at that time. We will all certainly agree that, in 50 years, there have been numerous changes in the social context and the profile of family relations, but also much has changed in terms of scientific knowledge in evidence; even more significant than all this, however, was the progress and achievements that society has experienced in the field of equality. Today, there is no justification for maintaining excessively long periods between the moment of termination of a marriage and the celebration of a new marriage, as well as for the consecration of a differentiated regime between men and women. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the other hand, in the matter of legal certainty which is conferred by the effects of the registration, it is recognized the importance of maintaining a period which, in our view, must be strictly necessary to ensure that tasks of an administrative and record nature related to the dissolution and advertising of the marriage are carried out. This was the meaning of the evolution of this regime in different countries. And it is our understanding, too, that this should be the way in which our legal order must evolve, as it should seek to respond to that which is an essential premise of a democratic and modern rule of law, the guarantee of full equality between men and women. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we also consider it absolutely necessary to ensure, in terms of the presumptions of paternity, that amendments to the matrimonial arrangements are accommodated in the necessary adaptations, essentially preserving the system of the establishment of membership, as set out in our legal order. It is also for this purpose that we propose the removal of the legal presumption of paternity, which should not operate when the marriage is concluded before 300 days after the dissolution of the previous one. The Socialist Party's bill aims to enhance individual freedom in the decision to enter into marriage, ensure full application of the principle of equality, maintain sufficient stability so that registrar services perform their mission and carry out a review, although surgically, in the system of paternity presumptions, ensuring systematic coherence within the framework of family law. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it matters now, voted and approved that these projects are compatible with these objectives, carry out the necessary debate in the field of expertise, which will certainly allow, with the collaboration of the entities that should be called upon to decide on legislative initiatives, take another step in the construction of a society more equal, without discrimination and therefore fairer. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u74	For an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we welcome the schedule of the Left Block for a topic which aims to change legislation to suit will and social feeling. Currently, the law limits the right that every citizen has to get married again after a divorce in the period that seems more convenient to him and still differs from men of women. If it is true that at the time of the adoption of the Civil Code in 1966, there were justifications for such imposition, based primarily on moral considerations and on the issues of paternity conflicts, this norm currently constitutes an unjustified limitation to the individual freedoms of each of us. Today the divorce no longer has the negative connotation it had in 1966. In addition, divorce is often officially decreed on a day, but effectively separation has happened for a long time and with the consent of the spouses. When this consensus does not occur, the judicial action will hardly last less than six months, which already ensures an internal deadline by itself. On the other hand, the question of presumption of paternity which requires women to be subject to an internuptal period greater than that of man, in addition to constituting discrimination based on gender, which only justifies their elimination, also finds no reason to be in terms of legal certainty, because in case of doubt about the fatherhood of a child it is possible to initiate a paternity investigation action and require the conduct of DNA tests, being possible through these, to make direct proof of paternity. We understand that an analysis is necessary to allow the legislation to be adapted to social evolution, as is already the case in several countries, such as France, England, Switzerland or Australia, among others. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The social values and dogmas that have taken place in the past no longer make sense and must be adapted to the current sense of society, in which people have the right to decide on the one who can be a fundamental pillar in the construction and conformation of their lives, without legal and moral constraints, so the elimination of any internuptal period is proposed. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u76	For an intervention, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD Parliamentary Group addresses all issues relating to gender discrimination with the greatest responsibility and has a record of its pride in this matter. Even in past legislation, at a time when the country had far-reaching and very urgent concerns in a budgetary and financial perspective, there were absolutely unequivocal progress in this matter that the PSD Parliamentary Group is particularly proud of itself. We cannot go hand in hand with our legal regime in search of possible inequalities, which, often, are not, trying to correct situations eventually to launch rockets and make fire-fighting rather than to correct any discrimination. Addressing the Left Block directly, I must say that the Left Block has a proposal in debate that we consider, at least, strange. The Left Block claims that there is discrimination and will therefore equal the 180-day international deadline for both men and women. But there are several problems here. First, if the Left Block does not care about the presumption of paternity—and should not worry because the Left Block, on a step-by-step in the obvious systemisticity of the Civil Code, changes and disregards the internal deadline,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u78	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u79	... but does not move in the rules of the presumption of paternity — which, underlining, was imposed in the Civil Code not as a pretext of any discrimination but to protect the rights of the child, then I ask: why keep the 180-day period?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u81	He didn't read the whole bill!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u82	Mrs Sandra Cunha said from the rostrum that the internal deadline had fundamental reasons of a retrograde nature, of a conservative nature. So why keep the 180-day deadline? Oh, my God! [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u83	Is it to maintain a deadline? Oh, my God! Does the Left Block suddenly assume a retrograde and conservative position here in the Portuguese Parliament when it considers that there must be a 180-day period for reasons of mere social decoration? Oh, my God! That's what it looks like, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. It is not logical, it is a shaky proposal, it is a legally very doubtful proposal which should have been well reflected before it is presented. I repeat, the PSD faces this matter with the greatest responsibility. We are prepared to discuss the projects, particularly that of the Socialist Party, with all the rigour at the stage of the speciality. We have reservations about all of them, including some aspects of the Socialist Party's project, but we believe that it can be worked, because, in fact, there are scientific and technological advances that at this time make us look at the rules that were in the Civil Code in a different way, regardless of whether they had any discriminatory intentions, which we reject in a full and complete way. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u84	For an intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate you. I begin by refocusing this debate and this debate. All of you. Members who presented these projects treated us as if it were an issue of equality. My ladies and gentlemen, I must say that you are heavily mistaken.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u86	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u87	It is not a question of equality here, as it is obvious.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u88	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u89	This is a legal institute called "filiation and presumption of paternity" and that is only what is at stake here. This, allegedly modern agenda, of the Left Block, of which the PS sometimes goes back, tell yourself in favour of the truth,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u90	All right! It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u91	...is an absolutely extraordinary thing. You don't understand! You don't understand, word of honor! Besides, it's a total incongruence, and I'm explaining why. But before that, I mean that the CDS does not board or embark on the smoothing of issues that should never be lightened. The question of equality is a very important issue. The issue of affiliation is another very important issue. One and the other are not confusing, nor can they be, but you spend your life confusing both things and don't want to know what's going on here.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u92	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u93	Also the argumentative logic presented — except for the CFP —...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u94	Honorable exception!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u95	...is absolutely extraordinary. A year ago, our initiatives, the CDS and the PSD, in terms of civil disability, were to go through the entire Civil Code that needs a readjustment.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u96	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u97	So far we are still waiting for the Minister of Justice to present this review. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Hugo Lopes Soares.]] Nothing! Nothing has happened strictly so far. We're still waiting for that review. You, who accused us of wanting to detail the Civil Code and to discontinue, are now taking exactly the same and making the revision to the flap of something which, frankly, needs consistency and legal consistency. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Hugo Lopes Soares.]] So we understand that, as far as the fundamental issue is concerned, the bill of the Left Block has no point where it is caught. I'm sorry, but it's true. The draft law of the NAP — which also applies to the truth — is more consistent and more consistent, but also completely disregards all the problems that may arise there, and which are not few, and have to do with presumptions of paternity, I repeat. The PS bill may have some framework and has some things that we understand. Now, what we like to be clear is the question of the 30-day deadline, which is not understood. You don't understand how simple cars think it takes 30 days to record the effects of a wedding. But you are the first to realize that the 300 days are absolutely important because they remove the presumption of paternity if they have not lasted 300 days until the second marriage. Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to point out that we can, eventually, still discuss this issue, but it is to be noted that there are questions of bureaucracy here that must also be addressed. They are not questions of moral prejudice,... [[No, no!]] [[No, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u98	... these are questions of bureaucracy, because, if there is no presumption of paternity — what you should do, if they were consistent, was to put an end to the presumptions of paternity —...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u99	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u100	...we're all gonna have to go to the children's register and we're all gonna have to do DNA tests, and I don't know if they know it costs money and the state won't bear it. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Hugo Lopes Soares.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u101	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u102	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the initiatives we are debating today, which aim to determine the time-limit laid down in the Civil Code, are working in a misunderstanding, because instead of solving any existing problem, to be approved, they are creating problems that are not present today and are only generating delays, complications and expenses. Otherwise, let's see: is it the internuptal term based on moral reasons? Have-CL-will-will be! It would have been in 1966, but we no longer think that it was for the legislator who, in 1977, carried out a review of family law and maintained it. Will the 300-day period for women based on discriminatory reasons or will it serve as a factual basis necessary to make the presumption of paternity established in the Civil Code work? The reasons for the internal deadline are well explained by Pereira Coelho and Guilherme Oliveira in the book Family Law Course in the following terms: « (... ), if a 2. the immediate marriage was possible the child who was born within 300 days following dissolution, (...) of 1. the marriage would have been born as the son of the 1. the e of the 2. husband(...) ».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u103	It's the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u104	« It is true that the law provides for the possibility of such a conflict of paternity presumptions, defining a criterion for their solution (... ), but there is interest in preventing the conflict from arising and the demand for an international deadline serves that interest; (...) ». And that's just it. Any moral reason that can be invoked for the existence of an international period for women is irrelevant to us. The only thing that stands out is that this process serves to make possible the existence of a presumption of paternity in favour of the mother's husband. Will there be any advantage in putting an end to that presumption? We're not seeing anything. We don't see any advantage in forcing a married mother to have to declare who her child's father is when it's settled today with a legal presumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u105	Very well said!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u106	Furthermore, the 300-day period may be set aside with a simple statement from the woman who is not pregnant. The only sanction provided for in the Civil Code for those who enter into a new marriage without respect for the period of time spent is the loss of property that has been received by the donation or will of the first spouse.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u107	That's it! That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u108	All this to say that ending the internup or ending the mother's husband's presumption of paternity would not only have no advantage relevant to anyone as it would create problems that do not exist today.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u109	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u110	What the law solves today without problems would have to be solved with mandatory DNA tests, delays and expenses in the courts, but there is no need. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u111	The law should be used to solve problems and not to create problems that do not exist and the change of structural legislation, in social terms, as is family law, should not be made of mild and light mind, without a deep discussion of all its implications, beyond the soundbits and the foam of the days. These initiatives will not have our approval. [[Congratulations from the PCP, PSD Member Hugo Lopes Soares and CDS-PP Member Vania Dias da Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u112	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that, with regard to the three draft laws under discussion and to the interventions that have already been made, what is evident is that this subject deserves further discussion and, precisely in that sense, the Greens are prepared to contribute to their transition to the specialty so that they can be discussed more in detail there, the matter can be further discussed. They leave a assumption or a fact, perhaps it would be better to say so, that the law establishes the internuptial period, which mediates between the end of a marriage and the possibility of entering into a new marriage, with different periods for the woman and man: 300 days for the woman and 180 days for the man. These bills call us to several questions that can be asked. Will it make any sense, today, that there is an internuptional deadline, for either man or woman? On the subject of the presumption of paternity, for whom there are doubts there are various reliable ways to prove it, or not. I therefore believe that there are a number of questions here that may merit our questions and the search for the most consensual answers possible for this matter. Now, the truth is that three bills of law are placed on the table with three different solutions, and this eventually proves the need for a greater deepening of the issue. It also seems to us that there are some projects, particularly those of the Left Block, which end up being somewhat contradictory in the problem they raise and in the solution they find to maintain the internal deadline, without effectively justified the reason for their existence. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the contribution the Greens are going to make is that these bills can be discussed more deeply in committee, we feel that we have not strictly lost anything with this and, if we can find solutions that are less discriminatory and less based on social decor or moral prejudice, we may all have to gain from it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u114	For the closure of this item on the agenda, Mrs Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u115	Mr. President, Mr. Carlos Abreu Amorim, the absurdity is not in the jurisdiction of the bill of the Left Block. The absurdity is in the prejudice and conservatism of Mr. Deputy, of his bench and now also of the CDS bench. If you had read the bill of the Left Block you would realize that the purpose of the bill is to eliminate the unequal treatment granted between men and women. [[That's not what's at stake!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u116	Is that a PCP? Oh, my God! The PCP, isn't it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u117	This is at stake, it is the elimination of unequal treatment and discrimination. With regard to the presumption of paternity, the Civil Code already provides for the resolution of conflicts arising from the double presumption of paternity when these situations occur. Mr President, right now let me tell you that we did not go from flashlight to the hand looking for such situations in the Civil Code. You know what happened? We have received numerous complaints from several women, even as the other parliamentary groups must have received. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Vania Dias da Silva.]] That's what happened, they're not invented situations. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would also like to point out that, in relation to all the criticisms and all the absurd that they give to the bill of the Left Block, the opinion of the Portuguese Association of Legal Women gives to the bill of the Left Block all its support, all its agreement, both technically and politically. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u118	Look at the side!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u119	Mrs Deputy, your time has already been greatly exceeded. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u120	I'm done now, Mr. President. Mr António Filipe, the woman is not obliged to make a statement, the woman is obliged to present a pregnancy test,... [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u121	It's a statement! Go see the Civil Code!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u122	...which is very different from a written statement. That's what's written in the procedures. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u123	Mrs. Members, we thus conclude the appreciation of the projects of lein. 436 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), BE, 472 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), PS, and 474 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a), of the NAP. We now move on to the next item on the agenda with the debate on draft resolutions Nos 656/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government immediately reverse the increase in the cost of tolls of A22 by maintaining its freezing until the requalification works of EN125 are completed ( CDS-PP ), 674 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by abolishing tolls on the Way of the Child ( PCP ), 621 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government suspend the collection of tolls in A22 until the completion of the requalification works of EN125 to the extent that such works close parts or produce substantial constraints on circulation ( PSD ), 691 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Determines the elimination of tolls on A22 / Child Route ( BE ) and 767 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Elimination of the collection of tolls on the Via do Infante ( The Greens ). To begin the debate, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us bring here a matter which is recurrent, and it is recurrent because the government is anxious to continue a series called 'the word given, the word honored', which is already going on in the second season, where the Portuguese, in this case, are always mistaken. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u125	And it has to do with what? We are faithful, in the matter of tolls, to what we have always said: user/payer. As we fully comply with this principle of equality, users are called upon to contribute to the sustainability of the national road system. It happens that, in the specific case of the Algarve, taking into account the economic interest of the region, which is only, in terms of tourism, the window or the gateway to the country, mobility is also a factor of competitiveness, and there is a criterion of great injustice. In other words, governments, several governments, have promised to create an alternative, which is EN125, this alternative, due to various vicissitudes, is delayed to be in full office and the population, whether they visit the Algarve or the resident in the Algarve, deserves an exception treatment. in the past, we proposed, and unfortunately not accepted, the reduction of the tolls, at least during the duration of the works in EN125, those of the responsibility of the Government of the Republic. And we feel very attached to this matter, because a draft resolution by the Socialist Party was approved by the Assembly of the Republic which recommended exactly the reduction of tolls during the time the works lasted. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u126	What happens to this draft resolution? The Socialist Party or does not speak with the Government or the Government no longer have any credit at the Socialist Party's bench because, at the same time as the Socialist Party presents the draft resolution, which is approved unanimously, what does the Government do? Instead of reducing the tolls, increase the tolls! [[Now!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u127	Increases the tolls by 8 %. Why do I say it is the second season of the series "given word, honored word"? Because Mr. Prime Minister, before the elections, was to say, inside, in the Algarve, on televisions, that if he was elected Prime Minister would reduce the tolls, and he has said so. What is called a Prime Minister who before the elections and then, already acting, says « I will reduce the tolls! When did they actually increase? What a name for the ladies. Do you give a Prime Minister who is doing this? I leave to your imagination, I will not even mention any adjectives, but the truth is that this has happened. So we have come here again to call for common sense, respect for the algae, some consistency, however small and still resident in these benches, to at least vote favourably for our draft resolution, because it is just so a question of consistency, that we will again reduce, or put back, the price of the tolls, as it was initially, until the end of the works of EN125. In response to the alternative, EN125, which replaces the normal functioning of the tolls, will not, as some benches here do — have the dual function of Members of the Assembly of the Republic and members of associations claiming the end of the tolls — have a speech in the Algarve and another one here.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u128	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u129	They do not catch us with two speeches, neither in speeches according to the electoral calendar, nor in circumstantial speeches, in which we are once as heads of call and again as Members. We always assume our function. Therefore, this draft resolution is similar to the previous ones, not to say it is equal, goes against what has already been approved, on our part there is total coherence, you choose which side you want to be on. They choose whether they want to be next to a Prime Minister who says something before the elections and does something else later, if they want to be in front of a party that votes and allows something else, if they want to be next to a bench that says "it ends with the tolls", but then it supports a government that increases the tolls. In conclusion, I hope that all sides will vote in favour of our draft resolution, because it is the best, because it is consistent and because it is the one that alleviates the difficulties that the Algarve feels. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u130	Mr. Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The introduction of tolls on the Via do Infante in December 2011 was a profoundly damaging measure for the Algarve and the algarves, with very negative repercussions on the mobility of citizens, the economic activity of the region and the worsening of road weakness. It is urgent to correct this horrendous error by abolishing, as the PCP proposes, the collection of tolls on the Via do Infante. Tolls are not an inevitability, as some try to make believe, they are an option. It is an option of PS, PSD, and CDS, which preferred to crush users and the regional economy with tolls so as not to undermine the interests of the economic groups that hold the Granting of the Child Way. In the face of the profoundly negative consequences of the introduction of tolls, PS, PSD and CDS have tried to remove their responsibilities in this process, but the facts are irreversible: it was a PS government that decided in 2010 to introduce the tolls into SCUTs (without cost to the user) ; it was a PSD/CDS government that in 2011 implemented this measure on the Via do Infante ; it was the PS, the PSD and the CDS that rejected all the proposals submitted by the PCP for the abolition of tolls. If there are still tolls on the Via do Infante is because PS, PSD and CDS like that. Mr. President and Mr. Members, PSD and CDS also presented draft resolutions on the tolls of the Via do Infante. The CDS, recognizing the existence of a mobility problem in the Algarve, with serious consequences for road sinequality, what answers to this problem? The CDS response is the project of 0, 15 €.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u132	They're wide-handed!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u133	Yes, Mr. President and Mr. Members, the CDS proposes a reduction of 0, 15 € on tolls. Someone who travels the 133 km of the Via do Infante should, according to the CDS, pay less 0, 10 € on a porch and less 0, 05 € on the other porch.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u134	You propose 0 €!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u135	If the issue was not so serious and with such dramatic consequences for the Algarve and the algarves, the CDS resolution project could only deserve a shriek sound. As for the PSD, it presents a draft resolution that is characterized by the deepest demagogy and the most blatant opportunism. The PSD proposes the suspension of the tolls in spot situations until completion of the requalification works of the National Highway No 125. With this proposal, the PSD tries to remove its responsibilities by suspending, for three years,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u136	That's fake! It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u137	... of works on this national road. With this proposal, the PSD tries to make it forget that the previous PSD/CDS government can abolish the tolls, not only did it not as it rejected all the proposals in this regard presented by the CFP. [[PCP applause.]] Mr. President and Mr. Members, as a result of the persistent struggle developed by the population and defeat of the PSD/CDS government in the 2015 legislative elections, the current PS government decided in August 2016 to reduce the value of tolls on the Via do Infante by 15 %. Although in a positive sense, this measure is clearly insufficient. For the PCP what is really needed is the immediate abolition of the tolls on the Way of the Child. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u138	Mr Cristovão Norte has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate is an excellent occasion for us to assess in particular the degree of commitment of the parties that support the government in relation to this issue of tolls on the Via do Infante. Let us remember what was promised at the time of the elections. [[At the moment, the speaker displayed a PS document entitled 'Compromises with the Algarve'.]] The PS promised « to immediately reduce tolls by 50 %, with a trendyly free Child Route ». I have this document with me so that everyone can consult it and see the demagogy and the way the PS has dealt with the citizens. Even one week after the elections, the political solution that gave shape to this majority and José Apolinário and the other members of the Socialist Party had not yet been seen, suddenly sent a letter to the President of the Infrastructures of Portugal demanding, with immediate character, that the value of the tolls should be lowered. The PCP and the Left Block were round and categorical. In fact, as always, and in coherence, they declared that they would not accept any other solution than the abolition of the tolls. The three were joined together — the PS, the BE and the PCP, and in those famous and famous Joint Positions none of this was reversed, nor the position of the PS and even less that of the PCP and the Left Block. This was, of course, strange, because this was, according to the proposers, the capital issue, the largest issue and the most severe strangulation the region suffered. However, when it came to making an arrangement on the essential subject of governance, this issue — the most important, the most decisive, the essential for the mobility of algae — was readily forgotten. In addition, the PS, the Left Block and the PCP later approved an initiative which resulted in a 15 % reduction in tolls. Surrender: 15 percent! As everyone knows the minimum of arithmetic, let's make a simple account. With the abolition of the tolls proposed by the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party and the reduction by 50% of the value of the tolls proposed by the Socialist Party, we arrive at the bizarre result, arithmetically, of 15% reduction. Repeat: 15% reduction! [[PSD applause.]] But these parties did worse than that. They made a 2 % update which entered into force in January 2017 when the update was 0, 84 % nationally. by the way, they did no more than suspend the works of EN125 for seven months for the simple reason, which we all know, that there was a significant reduction in public investment and that reduction had called into question the works of EN125. Now, the Socialist Party has become ashamed and embarrassed and, as such, has not put forward any proposals today. The PCP and the Left Block, which approved the Socialist Party's proposal to reduce the price of tolls by 15 %, and which voted against the PSD proposal last year on the same subject, come to ridicule the proposal of the CDS, when the proposal of the PCP represents little more than the 15 cents that the CDS defended today. [[PSD applause.]] This is the most whitening the PCP comes to its position. Mr Paulo Sá should be ashamed to censure the CDS for taking such a position when his position is inconsistent. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u140	This is opportunism!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u141	Therefore, they have agreed with the PS not the PS position, nor your position. Less than that, the parties did not meet neither the PS position, nor their own position, and therefore failed before the algae. [[Protests by PCP Member Paulo Sá.]] But, Mr Paulo Sá, for your rest, we have a proposal. Our proposal is perhaps not so ambitious or bold, but it is sensible and reasonable.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u142	I'll remember what you said!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u143	Thank you for finishing, Mr Cristovão Norte.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u144	You do not carry out anything, you only proclaim, as long as we put forward a proposal: the suspension of the payment of tolls while the works at EN125 are under way.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u145	Be true! Tell me what your real proposal is!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u146	You really have to finish, Mr Cristovão Norte.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u147	I shall end with your condescendence, Mr President. The proposal that we present serves for the present and the future, because we know that we will have requalification works in the section between Olhão and Vila Real de Santo António and we know that the suspension of the payment of tolls, at least while you do not understand it, is a way of smoothing the disorder that this matter causes to the algae. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u148	Understand and abide by your word, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u149	To present the legislative initiative of the Left Block, Mr João Vasconcelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In less than one year, the Left Block presented, in this Chamber, four times, proposals for the abolition of tolls, two of them at the time of the evaluation of the State budget, the third in May 2016 and today the draft resolution we are discussing. We are therefore consistent. These proposals have always been cast with the votes of the PSD and the CDS, but also with the PS, although in some cases this party has abstained, which has prevented the elimination of the tolls. The application by the former Government of the user-payer principle was a farce, an immorality. It did not pass an economic fury and an attack on the most basic rights of workers. The non-introduction of tolls in the former SCUT, both in the Algarve and in other parts of the country, has always been justified with the argument of bringing more development into the interior and combating asymmetries and territorial inequalities. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, nothing is expected from the PSD and the CDS, but we expect something from the PS, which will now have the opportunity to think twice and vote in favour of our proposals. The people of the Algarve placed great hope in this government and were even pleased with the defeat of the parties on the right, with the defeat of the previous government. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if concrete steps are not taken to solve the main problems and demand of people, then this hope will begin to fade and the disappointment will begin to settle. The Algarve is really tired and bleeding abundantly. I'm saying this why? Because it is not possible for us to continue to have a region, in this case the Algarve, which records more than 10 000 road accidents. last year, there were 10 241 accidents, more 751 than in 2015 and more 1903 than in 2014, with an annual average of 35 fatalities and 160 serious injuries. In five years of toll, there were nearly 50 000 accidents in the Algarve, almost 200 fatal victims and 1,000 serious injuries, accidents that are mainly the responsibility of the PSD and the CDS. Of course, not all these accidents are due to the tolls, but even if 50 % is due to the tolls, it is already a disaster, it is already a tragedy and concrete steps must be taken to reverse this situation. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, for last year only the districts of Lisbon, Porto and Braga were in front of the Algarve in relation to the number of accidents. In fact, he does not sympathize with this situation that we live in the Algarve. It is necessary to immediately reverse this situation and it is not enough to argue — before, they argued with the troika — with the financial difficulties of the country, because this is a falsehood that was introduced by the PSD/CDS government. The Way of the Child has costs. Last year alone, it had almost EUR 30 million of net charges paid to the dealer, despite the collection of tolls. Every year the Via do Infante is charged between EUR 30 million and EUR 40 million. This scandal, this cancer, this PPP (public-private partnership) must be reversed. As the previous government did not have the courage, the current government and the Members. PS Members now have the opportunity to redeem themselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u151	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u152	Finally, the Left Block states that it is necessary for politicians to be responsible and to keep their word. It is true that Mr. Prime Minister, during the legislative elections, admitted that the 125th National Road was a cemetery and even removed the tolls.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u153	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u154	It's time to fulfill your commitment.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u155	Mr President, you really have to finish your speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u156	My Lords and Ladies, if the tolls are not abolished, the struggle will continue, at any cost and to whom it hurts. It is marked, by April 17, a protest against the tolls of the Via do Infante. Here's the reality I told you about. The fight will continue, whether you want it or not. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u157	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau calls for as much time as possible for interventions, although there is always some tolerance, and for some self-contention from that point of view. To present the legislative initiative of The Greens, Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The implementation of measures such as the existence of tolls in regions which have no mobility alternatives is, first of all, a way of originating and empowering injustices and inequalities in the country. On this subject, it should be recalled that national public policies must ensure territorial cohesion, combat regional asymmetries and promote equality between citizens. Moreover, the Via do Infante, also called A22, is an example of how public policies affect economic and social sectors, contributing to weakening the quality of life of the populations, causing the loss of competitiveness with the sharp penalization of companies installed in that territory and consequent serious damage to employment and the region. As we know, the failure to introduce tolls in certain regions of the country has always been justified by the need to compensate for positive discrimination measures, taking into account the existing regional disparities. however, by economic options, the previous governments led to the implementation of exactly the opposite policies, with the decision to carry structural pathways in the interior of the country and also in the Algarve, so far without cost to the user. In fact, the introduction of tolls on the Via do Infante and also the rest of the SCUTs occurred in December 2011. Therefore, it was a decision of the PSD Government / CDS, although it has been consolidating a resolution taken in 2010 by the former Government of the Socialist Party. Still, it is a decision of the PSD / CDS government. Despite the criticisms and opposing positions expressed by the PSD and the CDS during the election period that took place in the summer of 2011 — whoever heard them! ... — soon after the legislative elections, the PSD and the CDS decided to move forward with the completion of the process of introducing tolls. And today, they're talking about coherence. It is this 'coherence' to which the PSD and CDS refer! Speaking in coherence, the Greens maintain the position they have always had on this subject: the Child's Way should not have any costs for users, since there is no real alternative of mobility in the region, either on a rail level or on a road level, which allows people to travel to their territory without any constraints. As for the railway, unfortunately, it is better not to say anything. Regarding the road, the problems of paternality and the hazard rates affecting the 125 National Road, which covers the entire coast of the seaweed, do not make it a real alternative, on the contrary. This road, which has already been named « road of death », in 2015 led the list of roads in the country where more accidents and more serious accidents occurred. Even with several works already carried out and others still in operation, the 125 National Road continues with bottlenecks and large accumulation of traffic, since it crosses several consolidated urban areas of the region, having been noted there, by the National Road Safety Authority, a high number of black spots throughout its journey. Adding to the dramatic loss of life and to the high road accidents, the adverse effects of the crisis on the economic sectors of the region were undoubtedly aggravated and increased by the existence of tolls on the Via do Infante. Finally, we must not forget what has been the policy of road concessions in recent years, with the so-called 'public-private partnerships', which have resulted in a huge calvary of damage to the State, with a heavy bill for the future and which translates into the territorial and social deterioration of the country. These are the reasons why the Greens present today for discussion a legislative initiative to recommend to the Government that it reconsider the abolition of the tolls on the A22 or Via do Infante. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u159	Mr António Eusébio, on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: You know very well, Mr. Hélder Amaral, that the tolls increased due to the annual price update, provided for in the contracts approved by V. Ex.a. [[CDS-PP protests.]] It should be recalled that it was on 28 November 2011 that the PSD/CDS-PP coalition Government introduced the tolls on the Via do Infante in the Algarve and that, Mr. Cristovão Norte, it was the same coalition government that ended in October 2012 with the exemption from positive discrimination to populations and businesses, which the Socialist Party, however, secured to the algae. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u161	This measure confirmed the principle announced on 24 June 2010 by the PSD Parliamentary Group, which I quote : « There are no regional tolls. The principle must be very clear: either they pay everyone or they don't pay anyone. » Where is your coherence now? And more: The 125 National Road is not congested in just a few sections now; the 125 National Road has been congested in many sections for more than four years, i.e. during your governance.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u162	Finish the works!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u163	Four years in which the works stopped, four years with unfinished works, increasing insecurity for motorists and measures that only penalized the algae. On this subject, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know what you have done in this Parliament for four years? Nothing! Nothing! [[Northern Cristovão PSD member's laughs.]] They remained impatience and serene! [[P.S.'s applause.]] But the works between Bishop's Vila and Olhão will be finished by this government!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u164	Finish them!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u165	On the Via do Infante, like any algarvio or any user who lives or works in the Algarve, we wish a Via do Infante free of tolls. But this too was not the Socialist Party's commitment to this legislation. It wasn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u166	Finish the tolls!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u167	Our commitment was not a Toll-Free Child Path. We all know that, unfortunately, Portugal does not have financial and economic conditions today to defend a toll-free solution. Responsibly, the Socialist Party's commitment was to progressively diminish the value of the A22 tolls, and we have already started this path. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Fifteen percent is much more than nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u168	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u169	Shame you should have the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, for four years they have done nothing! [[P.S.'s applause.]] And despite the reduction of 15 % in the rates of the Via do Infante, decided and implemented in the past summer by the current government, demonstrate a positive evolution—which should be expanded in the coming years throughout this Legislation for the correction of an injustice which, in our view, is grueling— today, we can say with greater conviction that the decrease in the value of the toll generates an increase in traffic and, consequently, reducing the cost of this legislation, we can continue to maintain the revenue of the State,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u170	So they didn't have a study yet? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u171	... keeping budgetary commitments and improving regional mobility.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u172	Finish the tolls!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u173	It is with the monitoring of this measure that the Government should decide whether or not to reduce the value of the tolls. It is to this extent that we will fight, with responsibility, for fulfilling our commitment to the algae. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u174	Mr Paulo Sá has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2010, when the PS government announced the intention to introduce tolls on the Via do Infante, what did the PSD say, which at the time was in opposition? I will remember: « Portages on the Via do Infante are an ignominy against the Algarve. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u176	Well, there it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u177	Yes, that is what you said in the opposition: 'The tolls are an ignominy'! [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]] As for the CDS, stop! in the 2011 legislative elections, he made a commitment to fight against the introduction of tolls on the Via do Infante. But when they got to the government, what did PSD and CDS do? They made a shallow table of what they had said and hurried to introduce tolls on the Via do Infante. [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]] Now, again in the opposition, the PSD and CDS do not save themselves in the proposals. It's too much. But we all know very well that this does not happen at a stage designed to deceive the delinquents.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u178	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u179	If the PSD and the CDS returned to the government they forgot these proposals and would keep the tolls. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mr. President and Mr. Members, I will conclude by saying only that the PS Government, in August 2016, reduced the tolls on the Child Route by 15 %. The PCP accompanied this measure, understanding it as an intermediate step towards the abolition of tolls.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u180	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u181	This intermediate step has been taken and now is the time to take the following step: abolish the tolls. That's what the PCP proposes. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u182	Mrs. Members, the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 656, 674, 621, 691 and 767 / XIII ( 2. ( a) and before we move on to the fifth and final item on the agenda, I give the floor to Mr Emília Santos to take account of the entry into the Bureau of legislative initiatives. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the projects of lein. 477 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the public control of the technical management activity of the National Electric System by separating it from the operation activity of the national electricity network ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 478 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Determines refusal of entry and stay in national territory to all foreigners who are convicted of the crime of terrorism under their respective Act ( fourth amendment to Law No 23 / 2007 of 4 July 2007 — Legal regime of entry, stay, exit and removal of aliens from the National Territory ) ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 479 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Determines the loss of Portuguese nationality by anyone who is also a national of another State, in case of conviction for the practice of the crime of terrorism ( eighth amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October - Nationality Act ) ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 1. the Commission, and 480 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Access to traffic, location or other related communications data by officials and agents of the information services of the Portuguese Republic ( CDS-PP ), which is down to 1. the Commission. The draft resolutions Nos 778 / XIII ( 2 ) also entered the Bureau. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government approve a security plan for each of the Portuguese international airports, ensuring the sharing of information between their administrations and the security forces and services ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 1. the Commission, and 779 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen and expand all elements of the security forces performing functions of proximity police, specific training in the detection, prevention and combating of terrorism ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 1. the Commission. In terms of file, that is all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u184	Thank you very much, Secretary Emília Santos. Mrs. Members, let us move on to the fifth item on the agenda, which is part of the joint debate, in general, of the projects of lein. 476 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Suspends the arrangements for updating the value of meals and the housing supplement in public higher education institutions ( CFP ), 440 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Determination of housing prices and meals for higher education students according to the social support indexer ( PSD ), 473 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Automatic indexation of the maximum meal and accommodation prices for students in higher education than the social support indexer ( PS ) and 469 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Setting housing and meals prices to public higher education students based on the social support indexer ( CDS-PP ). To present the legislative initiative of the CFP, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The obvious limitations of the current school social action law, the successive cuts in direct and indirect support over the years, the absence of effective policies to support students and guarantee the existence of equal opportunities, the increased accountability of families for the payment of exorbitant costs of access and frequency of higher education, such as tips, transport, housing, food, books, school material, have led to the abandonment and elitistization of access and frequency of higher education. The CFP has always defended the freeness of education in all its degrees and, for this purpose, we have put forward proposals to establish the end of the tips as a guarantor of justice, equality and quality in access and frequency of the highest levels of education. The CFP also advocates the extension of social action mechanisms to all those who need them, including the introduction of fairer criteria for awarding grants, but also in terms of the strengthening of support provided through indirect social action, in particular regarding meals and accommodation. We believe that school social action should be strengthened, but that it should not be the only intervention front of the State, because only the freeness for all those who attend public higher education, regardless of their economic capacity, can guarantee compliance with the constitutional right to education in its entirety. The truth is that increasing spending on education by families is the responsibility of the policy of successive governments and, today, continues to challenge the right of many to access higher education, and there are truly dramatic situations among students who try to keep studying at all costs and for whom, for example, 15 cents more in each meal can mean a big problem. It should also be recalled that, in a universe of about 69 000 scholarships, on average, the beneficiaries of social action in school receive 195 € monthly in a context where families have to spend about or more than 550 € per month on the various costs of frequency. The truth is that in 2015 / 2016 there were only 42 pockets with the maximum stock exchange, while more than 24 000 benefited from the minimum stock exchange, which more than gives to pay the tips. in this context, ladies and gentlemen. Members, any increase, however small it may seem, is another element of destabilization that effectively contributes to the worsening of the difficulties that so many and so many students have pushed out of higher education. The recovery of income and rights, including the increase in the national minimum wage, but also other social benefits, should continue, but should be accompanied by other concrete measures to ensure that the situation of families and, in this case, and more specifically, of higher education students is not aggravated. It was for this purpose that we propose in the bill, which we present here, the suspension of the regime of updating the value of meals and accommodation in public higher education institutions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u186	To present the PSD's legislative initiative, Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are here today discussing several proposals to stop the greatest ever increase in the price of meals and accommodation in higher education. This is not just a student problem; it is, above all, a country that makes education one of its axes of development. The fact that we are debating proposals from various parties proves that the Assembly of the Republic understands and values students and shows that Parliament wants to correct the government's error. If nothing is done, it will harm thousands of students. in this matter, as in others, the PSD has a vast legacy of which it is proud, because we always promote the extension of the social base of access to higher education, we always defend the elimination of social inequalities, we have always held hold of social mobility and have been responsible for the most significant improvements in the social action system, legacy, this, which is reinforced with the presentation of this bill. The State must ensure the existence of a social action system that allows access to higher education and the frequency of its institutions to all students who meet the academic conditions to attend it. But let's see: the price of canteen meals, to which all students have access, and the fixed price of pocket housing is indexed to the national minimum wage, which had an increase of 5 %, while the scholarship is associated with the social support indexer (IAS) and had an increase of 0, 5 %. If nothing is done, from October this year students will lose income, since the costs they have with meals and accommodation will increase 10 times more than what will increase their scholarship. We therefore advocate the maintenance of current prices for meals and accommodation, the definition of a fixed, not least, price for meals, the prohibition of the addition of compulsory fees or supplements at the price of accommodation and finally indexation to the IAS. We well know that the PS, when it is in opposition, and even if reality dismisses it, beats its chest and accuses the PSD of not supporting students, even though it is in PSD governments that more students become covered by the social action system. We well know that the PS, when opposed, and even if reality denies it, makes outrage with the abandonment of a theatre session, even if it is with the PS government that early school dropout is increasing, inverting the decline of the last 10 years. [[PSD applause.]] We well know that this bipolarity has been manifested in issues as relevant as propines. When they are opposed, they criticize the propines, but then in the government, they lead the proposals of the Bloc and the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u188	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u189	Even inconsistencies can justify the PS's becoming a champion of social action today, while 5000 students are still waiting for seven long months to know whether or not they have the right to a scholarship. however, and because people's lives are what really matters, the PSD has taken the lead in this matter so that this problem is solved, regardless of whether or not the government is sensitive to this matter. The solidarity of society, which manifests itself in an organized and structured way in the system of social action through scholarships and canteens and residences, is not a way of subsidizing those who have less, it is not a way of renewing the cycle of poverty, it is not a way of maintaining any kind of social control over those who go through difficulties. Yes, the best example of what a country should do in combating social inequalities, ensuring that it is not the size or material of the cradle in which we are born that limits the size of our dreams! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u190	To present the legislative initiative of the PS, Mr Ivan Gonçalves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party has, in recent decades, a broad legacy and a decisive role in supporting the higher education system in Portugal, not only in expanding its social base, but also in the growth of the science system in our country. This role has been important, because it is essential to promote greater equality of opportunity and greater access by young Portuguese people to education systems. For this success much has contributed the school social action system not only on its direct side, the allocation of scholarships, but also on its indirect side, particularly in the prices that are charged for the purchase of meals or in the lodging of young students who are deprived. However, these values have been indexed in recent years at national minimum wage levels, while, for example, the minimum eligibility value of school social action scholarships and the calculated value for allocation of these same grants are indexed at the value of the IAS, indexing social support. It is known that this Government has a commitment to increase the national minimum wage by 600 € up to 2019. This effort benefits not only the Portuguese but also — we have seen over the past few weeks, the data that have been revealed — the Portuguese economy, and this path has not been followed by the previous government. however, the goodness of this measure — the increase in the national minimum wage — cannot be reduced to an indirect consequence, which is the increase in costs for those who benefit from school social action when they want to buy their meals or pay their accommodation in Portuguese university residences. Therefore, this increase should not be taken into account, even more so when it is not accompanied by the increase in its social benefits, which are indexed to the value of the social support indexer, as has already been mentioned. The draft law which the Socialist Party here presents today aims to correct this situation and goes to meet what is the demands of Portuguese students, in that the assumed increases that may exist in the prices of meals and lodging during the coming year are based on what will be the increase of the IAS rather than the minimum wage. Thus, any sudden increases would be harmful to the most deprived students and our role in this Parliament is to prevent these increases from taking place. When Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes spoke about the greatest ever increase in the cost of meals and accommodation, it is not being serious because, in fact, this great increase did not exist. The Socialist Party and the parties in this House are discussing these proposals precisely so that this increase is not made. however, we are certain of one thing: over the past four years, the Social Democratic Party and the CDS have been government and have done nothing to change the situation, and indexation to the IAS already existed. On the one hand, perhaps because they did not want to do so and, on the other, because the Portuguese were certain: during the four years of your government, there was no increase in the minimum wage and therefore the price of meals and accommodation did not increase. The Portuguese did not have a minimum wage increase. That was the certainty that all Portuguese benefited! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I am not going to talk about the measures taken by this government, for example, to contract the award of scholarships for three-year periods — an old demand for students and for which the previous government has not done anything at all — because what I think is important now is that we promote a consensus in this House so that these measures, which are fair, are aimed at indexing the price of meals and accommodation to IAS and not to the national minimum wage.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u192	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u193	... to be approved unanimously in this Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u194	To present the legislative initiative of the CDS-PP, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u195	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the CDS we follow the framework made by the PSD on this subject and we verify that there is a sufficiently comprehensive consensus around three bills: that of the CDS, that of the PSD and PS. The three projects propose the use of a single indexer, in this case the IAS, to determine the price of social support either directly or indirectly; the correction of indexing percentages, so as to potentially not affect the amounts stipulated in the State Budget under the labour law; and also an automatic price update mechanism, on 1 October. however, the PS project omits the possibility of this automatic increase being suspended by the guardianship, which we are not aware of, until Mr Minister, in the Education Committee, when he was confronted with this situation, said precisely that was his intention. It is subject to correction, but it would be appropriate to integrate it into the bill. On the one hand, the PCP project is a little more sugeneris: on the other hand, it does not alter the indexer, which is, in fact, the background issue, and on the other hand, only provides for the component regarding the housing complement and not the accommodation itself, which is outside of what is this increase that the PSD has explained in its specificity.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u196	He didn't read! Text has been replaced!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u197	I read with all due care. For this reason, it seems to us to stay away from the main point under discussion. In addition, it provides for the automatic updating of prices to be suspended without determining the final limit for that suspension, which I imagine will happen forever, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u198	In summary, in the CDS, we have defended, on the one hand, the relevance of school social action as an instrument of access and school success for higher education and, on the other, we have found the incongruence resulting from two different indexers for social support, although for historical reasons. We therefore propose a single indexer — the IAS — alongside PS and PSD, the correction of indexing percentages and the maintenance of this automatic updating mechanism, but we stress the possibility of protection — which is understood to be the case — year by year to inhibit this automatic updating. In any case, we have a sufficiently broad consensus in Parliament on this matter, which we believe is essential in order to avoid a future situation that is potentially harmful to higher education students. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u199	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Luís Monteiro, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: on 17 March, the Left Block had the opportunity to meet with the Director of Social Action Services of the University of Lisbon and, among other things, we discussed precisely the problem of offering beds in university residences and also the offer of school canteens of social action services, precisely in a city where real estate speculation and increased demand for tourism led to the sudden and overwhelming majority of students not finding a viable solution for their stay in higher education. This is precisely why, today, we discuss the fundamental role of social action mechanisms, such as the housing of university residences, but also the offer of the canteens of social action services not only to ensure that all students and all students are able to enter higher education and that throughout their course they have social action support, but also to combat a scourge that, today, the main cities live, which is the scourge of increasing rent and which departs from the centers of these cities not only students but also students. The projects under discussion, although with different solutions from the articulate of the law, all point to a common path: ensure that it does not fall on the most charged students with education and permanence in higher education. The Left Block itself, last week, was able to present a draft resolution that guaranteed that, among other things, there was a freezing, practised at this time, of the prices of canteens and housing in residences. And it goes further—this project will be discussed in the Education and Science Committee—to ensure that there is also more bed offering, especially in cities, where the tourist offer has increased and rental prices have risen. It is therefore good that there is now a discussion that also accompanies the various concerns that the Block has put in this draft resolution. We are obviously available to discuss and monitor everything that has been put on the table in relation not only to the accommodation but also to the canteens. We must not fail to take a position in this debate in saying that we do not believe that there is a legislative error. There is legislation that can be corrected, can be updated, but we also know that today we are discussing a set of diplomas that ensure there is no increase in the price of meals and the price of accommodation, precisely because this parliamentary majority, where the Block also participates, has ensured that there would be an increase in the minimum wage, the greatest increase in the minimum wage in recent years. That, for us, was no mistake, it is a matter that prides us. So we're very pleased to discuss these projects, but we can't let this issue get squatted here. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u201	For a new intervention, Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes has the floor on behalf of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u202	Mr President, Mr Ivan Gonçalves : Although the PS has frozen the minimum wage, it is now forgotten that it was the PSD that took it off. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u203	I must tell you that I find it very interesting to come to the previous government about social action, because it gives me an opportunity to talk to you about a number: 5000. Five thousand is the number of more scholarships in higher education thanks to the changes made by the previous government and is the number of students currently waiting to know whether or not they have the right to the scholarship. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u204	I must also remind you that the largest ever increase in scholarship students was made in the time of the previous government : 12 000 in four years.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u205	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u206	I take advantage of a challenge for you, Mr President: join the PSD and demand that the government pay what it owes to the 5000 students who have been seven months waiting to know whether or not they have the right to the scholarship. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u207	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u208	Mr President, I would like to remind you of some aspects in this regard. Mrs. Members, the PCP has always brought proposals for strengthening social action in school, but, curiously, the PSD and the CDS have always made them unfeasible. Therefore, they boast here of a policy of enlargement of school social action saying that they have extended to the number of pockets but, for example, to omit that they were, above all, minimal scholarships, at the same time as increasing props and other costs of frequency, it is somewhat omiting a whole history in this matter, which is not, in fact, positive in relation to the performance of the PSD and the CDS in the government. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u209	But there is another question: on the freezing of the minimum wage, the PSD cannot come here to boast a great deal, because it also has a long curriculum in the freezing of the minimum wage and the unbridled attack on the rights of workers and the people. It is also important to remember this situation here. The truth is that, with regard to the project we present, we are, of course, available to deepen the discussion in the field of specialty, but, however, as they knew, we replaced the text of the initiative, which, I reaffirm, aims to intervene immediately, freezing the values of meals and accommodation in higher education institutions, ensuring that in this way there is no worsening of the living conditions of students and their families, in the current context, which is still of recovery of rights and incomes, rights and incomes that have been severely attacked by the last government, that of the PSD / CDS. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-30.u210	Mrs. Members, we have concluded the joint debate, in general, of the projects of lein.os 476, 440, 473 and 469 / XIII ( 2. a ), which means that we have reached the end of our agenda this afternoon. The next plenary session will be held tomorrow at 10 a.m. and will be completed by a thematic debate required by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group on Energy and, together, by the evaluation of draft resolutions Nos 771 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government assess the first 10 years of coexistence of regulated tariffs and tariffs liberalized in the electric sector and promote additional measures to protect the energy consumer ( PS ), 772 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government strategic lines of action on development and investment plans in the energy sector ( PS ) and 773/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government give priority to investment in renewable energy without guaranteed tariffs in regions with more potential and lack of investment ( PS ). The projects of lein.os 99 / XIII ( 1 ) are also scheduled without time for discussion. ( a ) — Changes in the territorial limits of the parish of Valongo ( PSD ), 114 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Amendment of the name of the Union of Freguesias de Santarém ( Marvila ), Santa Iria da Ribeira de Santarém, Santarém ( São Salvador ) and Santarém ( São Nicolau ), in the municipality of Santarém, for Union of Freguesias of the city of Santarém ( PSD ), 222 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Changes in the territorial limits of the fragesias between the parish of Sexo de Manhoses and the Union of Freguesias de Valtorno and Mourão and the Union of Freguesias de Cando and Carvalho de Egas ( PS ), 283 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amend the territorial limits of the parish of Pedrouzos and Rio Tinto of the municipalities of Maia and Gondomar ( PSD ), 284 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Amend the territorial limits of the parish of Santa and Rio Tinto of the municipalities of Maia and Gondomar ( PSD ), 285 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Amendment of the name of the parish of Penhalonga and Paços de Gaiolo, in the municipality of Marco de Canaveses, for the parish of Penha Longa and Paços de Gaiolo ( PSD ), 290 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amendment of the designation of the parish of Santiago dos Velhos, in the municipality of Arruda dos Vinhos, for the parish of S. Tiago dos Velhos ( PS ), 294 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Changes in territorial boundaries between the parish of Gove and the Union of the Frequencies of Ancede and Ribadouro in the municipality of Baião ( PSD ), 397 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amendment of the name of the street parish, municipality of Moimenta da Beira, to Vila da Rua ( PS ), 411 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Change of the name of the current street parish in the municipality of Moimenta da Beira ( CDS-PP ), 422 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amends the territorial boundaries of the parish and Delães of Vila Nova de Famalicão ( PSD ) and 435 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amends the territorial boundaries of the parish of Delães and Oliveira São Mateus of Vila Nova de Famalicão ( PSD ). At 12 noon there will be a scheduled vote. I wish the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon and until tomorrow. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 23 minutes.]]
