ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 2 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities to open gallery doors to the public. Before we begin today's agenda, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, will proceed to the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, the following legislative initiatives: projects of lein.o 676 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishes the reintroduction of the requirement to periodically monitor the quality of indoor and outdoor air in service buildings with air conditioning systems ( PAN), 677 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Statute of the Military of the Republican National Guard, as regards working time ( NAP ), 678 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determined conditions for the limitation of products harmful to health on automatic sales machines, as a form of health promotion in general, and in particular for the adoption of healthy eating habits (NAP), 679 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the extraordinary process of restoration of extinct strawberries ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 680 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Sets the conditions for the establishment of the primary prevention and control programme for Legionella ( PCP ), 681 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the obligation to submit an annual plan of action to monitor and monitor indoor air quality ( PSD ), 682 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alterly Decree-Law No 118 / 2013 of 20 August, with a view to ensuring regular verification of air quality of buildings with air conditioning system, including verification of the existence of legionella colonies ( The Greens ), 683 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Regularization of the legal status of children of foreign nationality received in State institutions or comparable ( BE ), lower than 1. the Commission, and 684 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establish a deadline for the regulation and strengthen the law of protection against exposure to electrical and magnetic fields derived from lines, installations and electrical equipment ( first amendment to Law No 30 / 2010 of 2 September 2010 ) ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission ; and draft resolutions Nos 1153 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop the necessary actions for the recovery and recovery of the National Lawn Plant ( PS ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1154 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the urgent revision of the Albufeira Convention ( BE ), 1155 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government respect the autonomy of schools, enabling the public management of school meals ( BE ), 1156 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop binding guidelines on the organisation and operation of school buildings, ensuring greater quality in meals provided ( PAN ), 1157 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen nutritionists for public school in order to allow effective monitoring of the ingredients, ensuring greater quality in school meals ( PAN ), 1158 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government determine the non-distribution of milk to pre-school and 1-school children. the basic education cycle, ensuring greater quality in school meals (NAP), 1159 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government determine conditions for the limitation of products harmful to health in automatic sales machines in schools with a view to the adoption of healthy eating habits ( PAN), 1160 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake a study to assess the need for the implementation of a national health programme on primary prevention of legionaires'disease, which promotes an information campaign to disseminate the means of primary prevention of legionaires'disease and to strengthen human and material resources in the field of public health for the conduct of assessments, audits and inspections on the quality of the indoor air of public and private services buildings equipped with air conditioning systems, as well as the quality of outdoor air in the perimeters of these buildings ( CDS-PP ), 1161 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake the review of the Albufeira Convention ( PCP ), 1162 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by the public management of school canteens ( PCP ), 1163 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by Portugal's non-accession to Permanent Structured Cooperation ( The Greens), 1164 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to São Tomé and Príncipe ( President of the HR ) and 1165 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government review the proceedings of the Albufeira Convention ( PAN ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u3	Thank you very much, Mr Duarte Pacheco, for reading such a large number of legislative initiatives. The agenda for today is a 15-year debate with the Prime Minister on social cohesion and the reduction of inequalities under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, to begin the debate, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: About two years ago, on 2 December 2015, he went up to this forum to present the Government's priorities for the country. More growth, better employment and greater equality were the three designs with which we committed ourselves to the Portuguese. We then started a new time for Portugal, a new time that broke the cycle of impoverishment and social backwardness in which the country had plunged and that returned hope to the citizens, a new time that offers real opportunities for growth and shared prosperity. This is, from the first day, our commitment, a commitment that many have decreed impossible and that many others have voted for failure, because we could not grow by returning income to families, because the majority of parliament that we build would put the country's international commitments at risk and because the only way was austerity. The results achieved over these two years of government show exactly the opposite. They can obviously question the strategy, of course, not agree with the policies, but cannot challenge the reality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And the reality is that today we have more growth, better employment and more equality. We already knew we had more growth and better employment. More growth because we are growing more than we were growing in 2015 and we are even growing at the fastest rate since the beginning of the century. Better employment because over the last two years more than 242 000 jobs have been created in net terms, the unemployment rate has fallen to the lowest level since 2008 and 75 % of jobs have been created without term contracts. Now, with the indicators known last week, we can also add that, in addition to more growth and better employment, we have even more equality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The replacement of income and the recomposition of social policies contributed in 2016 to the most significant reduction in the risk rate of poverty since the beginning of the financial crisis. The importance of change in the policies of the past, based on the idea of a minimalist social state and an illusory promise of "social ethics in austerity", is even clearer when it is found that the risk of poverty has more explicitly fallen among children and young people and among the elderly population. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The reduction in inequalities in Portugal also improves all its indicators: the difference in income between the richest 20 % and the poorest 20 % of Portuguese society has decreased to the 2010 levels ; the difference between the richest 10 % and the poorest 10 % has decreased to the 2011 levels ; and in the Gini coefficient we have reached the lowest levels of inequality since this indicator is measured, i.e. since 1994. If the numbers disclosed by the National Institute of Statistics ( INE) on the first year of this governance, i.e. 2016, show these progress, it is in the indicators that the INE anticipates for 2017 that we find even more significant improvements. The rate of material deprivation fell 3, 6 percentage points since 2015 and the rate of severe material deprivation increased from around 10 % in 2015 to 7 % in 2017. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These are, in both cases, the lowest values since 2005 and confirm that the policies for strengthening family allowance, recovering social minimums and updating pensions and national minimum wages are, in parallel with job creation, the right policies for a more coherent and less unequal society. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: More growth, better employment, more equality. In each of the three designs with which we presented the Government's Programme to this House, we have results to present. More growth for more Portuguese: for young people who enter the labour market and for older people who have their pensions valued; for children who open up more opportunities in access to preschool and for workers who see their work dignified. More wealth and shared prosperity mean greater cohesion and greater equality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But we know that secular poverty and the wounds caused by the crisis are far from healed. We are still EUR 2000 million of the wealth we had before the crisis, 300 000 jobs of the total employment in 2008 and the intensity of poverty still remains 4 percentage points above 2008. In addition, Portugal continues to have levels of inequality and poverty above the European average and the poverty rates among workers ( around 10 %) and among the unemployed ( 45 % ) remain high. And the relationship between dropout and school failure and the socioeconomic condition of families reveals the problem that the country still has in terms of reproduction of inequalities. The continued reduction of inequalities is only possible when, at the same time as we strengthen the structural mechanisms of redistribution, at the level of public services of education, health and social protection, we also develop instruments of pre-distribution, i.e. those that relate to incomes and can, at the beginning, reduce the crystallization of inequalities. This is why it is necessary to continue to bet on support for early childhood, social action at school, social income for inclusion and solidarity for the elderly. It is therefore essential to affirm the dignity of work and the progressive updating of the minimum wage, in a framework of valuing dialogue and social dialogue. Therefore, the Government presented yesterday in the social consultation and in accordance with its Government Programme, the proposal to increase the national minimum wage to €580,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... which would mean an increase of 15 % in the minimum wage throughout 2016, 2017 and 2018. That is why the budget, recently approved in this House, included a change to the social protection of the unemployed, with the end of the 10% cut in unemployment allowance because it is among these that the rate of poverty is even more prevalent ; and that is why we set up a fairer fiscal policy, which increases the economic power of the middle classes and the less favoured classes. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Two years ago, we presented a clear alternative and today we have the results, in growth, in employment, in equality. It is a stable and credible alternative, which strengthens confidence in the future, the future of a path that we must continue to move towards effective convergence with the European Union and to go further than the point where we were when the crisis hit us in 2008. That is the ambition that motivates us and for which we should mobilize ourselves, on behalf of the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u5	Before we start the Question Time. Members, I would like to inform the House that a delegation from the Italian Republic, chaired by its President, Sergio Mattarella, is in the gallery of the Diplomatic Corps, and for which I would like a greeting. [[General applause, stand up.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now going to start the question stage. On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Hugo Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Allow me, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party, to address a first word of greeting to Minister Mário Centeno for his election to President of the Eurogroup, wishing him, in these functions, the greatest happiness. Mr. Prime Minister, I listened carefully to you and I believe you know well, for example, the last published study on social inequalities and how Portugal dealt with them during the most difficult period of the crisis. [[Mr. P. João Galamba's laughs.]] I think you know him, but I do not want to read a paragraph that I think is elucidative to the debate we are holding here. It says the study, and I quote: « Portugal was a country with much greater inequalities(...) before the crisis and (...) having been obliged to ‘ tighten the belt’, it was able to do so by protecting the most vulnerable elements of society».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u7	With cutting into social income of insertion, etc. Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u8	That is to say, Prime Minister, that inequality in income distribution and the rate of poverty intensity have, for example, already decreased since 2014. I believe that you do not know—and will have been proposed that you have not compared any number with those of 2014, but always with those of 2015—that since 2014 unemployment goes down in Portugal, that the economy is growing and that all this is essential to combat inequalities. in this struggle we do not accept lessons from anyone and I believe that the path is of continuity, so we greet the government for also stopping with us, in line with what we have been doing, the recovery of inequalities—and there is, of course, much to do, Mr Prime Minister. But combating inequalities is also creating conditions in public services so that our citizens can access them and have in them what they expect, because of the taxes they pay. The first question I ask you, Prime Minister, is whether you have been alert to all the calls of attention that the Directorate-General for Health ( DGS ), the Order of Nurses and the Order of Doctors have made regarding the outbreak of influenza. The question is very concrete: can the Portuguese be rested with regard to the preparation of this most difficult period that happens repeatedly every year in hospital emergencies? Is the National Health Service (SNS) prepared to run to whom it needs in the next few months? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u9	PSD has banned Legionella, now the government will ban the flu virus!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u10	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u11	Mr President, Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares, what I can tell you is that we have been continually strengthening the resources and capacity of intervention of the National Health Service, particularly with the strengthening of staff, so that we are better prevented and better able to cope with what is a normal consequence of this period, which is that there is a greater circulation of the influenza virus. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u12	Mr Hugo Soares continues to use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u13	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, at this bench, we hope that the Government will take into account all the warnings that the various actors and actors have made on this matter. But, Prime Minister, we were talking about health and because health is related, I wanted to address another topic. During the debate, in the speciality of the State Budget, the Country agreed, in the morning, with the pompous announcement of the transfer of the Infarmed from Lisbon to the Port, was an announcement with great pump and circumstances that followed a set of statements by members of the Government, who said everything and their opposite. I believe that it is time to ask the Prime Minister a very clear question, so that the Portuguese can know and the leaders and the administration of Infarmed can be sure, once and for all: was it an intention or is it a political decision to transfer Infarmed to the Port? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u14	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u15	After all, the flu had something to do with Infarmed!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u16	Mr President, Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares, if there is one thing that is clear is that the announcement had neither a pump nor a circumstance. It was a statement made by the Minister of Health and, as he himself has acknowledged, surely the Government has not expressed in the best way its political will to proceed with this transfer. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] As far as I am concerned, what I can tell you is that many months ago Mr Health Minister spoke to me about this objective, in fact, as part of the submission of the application for the installation in the port of the European Medicines Agency. It seemed to me a correct, positive idea of deconcentration of services, and, in fact, it was consistent and consistent with the argument we made about the ability of the Port to host the European Agency. And if he had the capacity to host the European agency, how could he not have the capacity to host the national agency? Oh, my God! There were, in fact, advantages of synergies in the vicinity of these agencies. As Mr Minister has already had the opportunity to mention, of course, the Government should not have externalized this intention without having prepared with the Board of Directors of Infarmed, without having worked properly with officials... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u17	It's not "ah!" », it's obvious! There are things that are obvious! So it's not worth saying the opposite, I mean... I think it's obvious! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I don't know if you guys are. Members are more accustomed — I think they are —...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u18	To lies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u19	... that a government, when it goes wrong, persists in error, instead of simply recognizing that it has made a mistake and corrects the mistake. I think this is how it should be done. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] I know that the habit was different, but for two years the government has changed, and now they've been used! - it's different. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u20	You have the floor again, Mr Hugo Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u21	Mr President, Prime Minister, I will tell you: I did not understand anything! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u22	We're not surprised!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u23	What's wrong with the government? What's wrong with the government? Oh, my God! in the decision? Oh, my God! in the decision-making process? Oh, my God! The country wants to know something and the port too, and I'm going to ask you directly again: will Infarmed go or not go to Porto? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u24	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u25	Mr. President, Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares, I think the government has not failed... [[PSD protests.]] The government did not fail to decide that Infarmed would go to port. The Government has failed to communicate or prepare... The Government has failed to communicate this decision before speaking to the Board of Directors of Infarmed, before reassuring employees about their expectations and perhaps before developing and better implementing the transfer plan. But if you think that Infarmed should not go to the port, you can say so. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Don't you? Oh, [[PSD protests.]] I say: Infarmed must go to the port,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] ... must go with conditions, must respect the rights of its employees, and therefore, as Mr Health Minister has already had the opportunity to say, we have sufficient time to prepare for the execution and implementation of this task, which is the transfer of the Infarmed from Lisbon to the Port. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u26	Mr Hugo Soares has the floor, too.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u27	Mr President, Prime Minister, your mouth would run away from the truth and you would say that you did not prepare this decision, but it ended up saying nothing again. The question is so simple and so concrete—and I do not want to know whether Mr. Prime Minister will now try to talk to people, explain them, convince them, or not—and that is what the country wants to know: will the Infarmed from Lisbon to the Port go or not? Just say « yes » or « no », because then I am here to say what the PSD position is. [[Congrats from the PSD and the Member of the CDS-PP Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u28	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u29	Mr. President, Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares, I think I will repeat for the third time, here,... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u30	... what the Minister of Health has already had the opportunity to repeat several times: the decision of the Government is that Infarmed goes to the Port. Do you understand? Oh, my God! The government's decision is that Infarmed goes to port. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I'm going to repeat a fifth time: the government's decision is that Infarmed goes to Porto! Are you clear now? Oh, my God! [[Yes!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u31	Do we understand each other? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u32	Mr Hugo Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u33	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister has used us to be skilled with the words. [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] I want to tell you that the lightness and lightness of this decision-making are an outrage to the people of the North and the Port. The people of the port, the people of the north and the country do not need this kind of alms.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u34	But is it for or against?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u35	When we talk about deconcentration of services, when we talk about decentralization, these matters should be considered, they should be studied, and Mr. Prime Minister has given evidence that he does not do anything or anything else. For example, when we wanted to propose a possible committee in this House to discuss and consensualize proposals on decentralization, the Socialist Party and the left said no. Mr. Prime Minister wants to keep doing these political numbers, but you know what the problem is, Prime Minister? It is that this has not been thought, this has not been prepared, and Mr. Prime Minister now does not know what to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u36	As the Prime Minister has already answered, you do not know what to say!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u37	Therefore, decide, within your government, what you want to do and then we return to the subject, because no one has noticed whether your decision will have a consequence or not. But there are other decisions and instructions at the Socialist Party's parliamentary bench that influence people's daily lives. I would like to propose an exercise: Mr. Prime Minister lives in Pedrogão Grande; his home where he lives with his family burned down, because the State has failed, and the same State will continue to charge him for a house he no longer has.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u38	It's the camera that collects those taxes!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u39	I would like to ask you whether it is fair or unfair what you have done here. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u40	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u41	Mr President, Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares, if there is something that I clearly have to acknowledge is that the government, if competent, has been very incapacitated in this. This is because deciding a good thing and presenting it in such a bad way... if there's anything that failed here was skill. You can accuse us of everything, but you can't do it! We were even unable in the way we presented it, because even a person like Mr. Deputies, who would surely be the first to support the transfer of Infarmed to the Port, stood against only as incapacitated as we presented it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u42	No, no! Don't put words in my mouth!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u43	I would just like to stress that the deconcentration of services is not a smola and corresponds, moreover, to a vision that is the same which led us to return to the authorities of the Metropolitan Area of Porto the STCP (Society of Collective Transport of Porto ), which led us to return to the autarchies of the Metropolitan Area of Porto the system of Douro and Paiva that had been scrambled to them, which led us to fix not only in Portugal as in Porto the Miró collection and that led us to make a set of decisions that aim at valuing Porto as an essential component of our system of cities and our system of insertion into global networks. Yes, this is the vision we have for port and also for its valuation. As regards the question which you have put to me, I would like to draw your attention to the following: in this process of decentralisation, for both residents in Pedrogão and for residents in any other municipality in the country today, there is a new rule concerning the exemptions and reductions of IMI, which is, on the proposal of the respective municipalities, of the municipal chambers, the municipal assemblies can approve these exemptions. What you wanted to do here was not to facilitate or create any tax benefits for residents in Pedrogão, which you intended to reduce the competences of the Portuguese municipalities by withdrawing their autonomy to fix IMI exemptions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u44	Mr Hugo Lopes Soares has the floor, too.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u45	Mr President, Prime Minister, advice: if you are having trouble communicating, any folk group will solve this issue again, there is no problem. [[PSD laughter.]] Mr Prime Minister did not remember to diminish the powers of the municipal chambers when he approved here the IMI on the views. You did not remember that you were attacking the powers of the municipal chambers when, in this proposal for a State Budget, you set up exemptions on the basis of the proposal for a State Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u46	The competence is already theirs!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u47	What you wanted to do was refuse all the citizens who have lost their homes, because the State of which you are the Prime Minister has failed them, the possibility that they will not pay a tax on a good that no longer exists. If you do not want to take this responsibility, do not assume it and say here: "I am against this exemption from IMI". Don't kick into the municipal chambers what you should do for everyone, because that's how it was fair and that's how it was humanly demanded by a government. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] I now take advantage of your presence in this debate, Prime Minister, for another matter. I heard a member of the Socialist Party doing a difficult exercise, I heard the parliamentary leader of the Socialist Party trying to do an even more difficult exercise, but then, this weekend, I realized that there was no exercise worth them,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u48	This is a case of school failure!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u49	...because, after all, it was Mr. Prime Minister who ordered the Socialist Party's bench to make a flic-flac at the back. So I ask the author of this order: what was the reason, Prime Minister, for ordering his bench to change the vote from Friday to Monday, in what has already been known as the wind energy tax? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u50	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u51	Mr, first of all, to respect the competences of others is not to shake responsibility for anyone, using their language,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u53	... it is simply to respect the powers of others. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As we respect the powers of the Assembly of the Republic, of the President of the Republic, of the courts, we also respect the powers of the municipalities. [[PSD protests.]] And I must tell you that a state that starts by respecting the other powers of the State is the state that is better able to respect citizens, and this is the first duty of each of the political office holders. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] Secondly, I would like to make it clear that the Prime Minister gives no orders to any Member and much less to a parliamentary group. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] as far as this measure is concerned, what I can tell you is that, having asked me what my opinion was, this measure should not be approved, and this measure should not be approved because the reduction of the energy tariff is a priority, why we have adopted a set of measures, since the enlargement of the social tariff, which covered 70 000 families and which today covers 800 000 families, is the fact that we have submitted to the regulatory authority the setting of independent CMECs (costs for maintaining the contractual balance), is the fact that we have been granting for the first time a set of renewable energy equipment without the subsidy of the tariff. But this demand for tariff reduction must be compatible with two fundamental objectives or, better, a fundamental objective and guarantee: first, the objective of giving priority to the promotion of renewable energy and, second, the guarantee it has to do with the stabilization of contractual rules. As you know, and no one should be able to ignore it, there have been a number of investments that have been made, perhaps with rules that should not have existed, but that exist, and on the basis of which these investments were made, which have an important impact on the national economy as a whole and which are important, in particular, for the financing of our public debt. Portugal cannot, therefore, give a signal to the international community, nor to international investors, of unilateral amendments to the rules, but must do what it has been doing and what we are committed to doing, which is to renegotiate tariff conditions with operators, so that they contribute more to the energy deficit and relieve the consumer tariff. This is what we will continue to do, and this is my opinion, which I say here with all the clarity and all the frontality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u54	Mr Hugo Soares has the floor, although the government at this time no longer has time to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u55	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I did not invent anything, and I did not hear you deny what a weekly, this week, says between quotes: « I gave directions to the rule to be a lawyer ». So either you take what you said to the weekend or you come here to deny it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u56	None of that is true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u57	But this is your problem, Mr. Prime Minister, with the week-end that you published the news. I have just said that you are the one who gave this instruction and order to the Members of the Socialist Party. But I understand - I understand - I understand-o1 Mr. Prime Minister now understands that respect for existing contracts is a very important thing. The Prime Minister now understands that respect for the commitments made is something that the State must guarantee. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] And, Mr. Prime Minister, with regard to TAP? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u58	Yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u59	Mr. Prime Minister didn't want to respect the contract already signed? Oh, my God! Why did he rush to reverse the TAP business and here he had so much respect for the contracts that were concluded? Oh, my God! It is, Mr. Prime Minister, that we must be consistent! [[PS protests.]] I even agree with Mr. Prime Minister, and do not see these inconsistencies in this bench. Mr. Prime Minister's problem is another. The problem with the Prime Minister is that he thinks this is a structural issue because it also has to do with foreign investment. And I want to tell you it really is! But the truth is that on this issue, as in other structural issues essential to the growth of the economy, to the confidence of investors in our country, which are therefore structural to our collective future, this government is a single and exhausted government because it does not have the support of the parties of the majority who support it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u60	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u61	That is the question that needs to be retained: for what Mr. Prime Minister considers structural, he no longer has the support of the Left Block, nor the support of the Portuguese Communist Party. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u62	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u63	But this is a matter for you to understand with your partners until the end of the legislature. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u64	It is now the turn of the Left Block Parliamentary Group and Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u65	Mr President, Prime Minister, the election of Minister Mário Centeno to President of the Eurogroup is a government victory. The government wanted to do this work, it was elected by its peers, I congratulate you, but you know the position of the Left Block on the Eurogroup, on the euro and on the complicated tasks within Europe and whether or not we will do them in this way. But I think that politics should be discussed and that is why we are here, surely. Let us forget the position of the Left Block on the Eurogroup. [[Rice from the CDS-PP Members João Pinho de Almeida and Nuno Magalhães.]] Let us even forget that the Eurogroup does not exist in European treaties. Let us forget for a moment that the Eurogroup is an informal group which has served to impose austerity policy on Portugal and the countries of the South. Let us forget that it is a group without rules, in which Germany always sends out everyone. Let us even forget that the Eurogroup was the one who hostileed Greece and even expelled the Greek Minister of Finance from its meetings. Let us forget that Portugal was insulted in the Eurogroup. Let's forget all this...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u66	You better not forget!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u67	...and think about what will be done, after all, with the Eurogroup. We have listened very carefully to what Minister Mário Centeno said about the euro not long ago. He said, and we agree, that monetary union is creating divergence rather than convergence. In other words, Minister Mário Centeno and the Socialist Party have - in so many ways said - acknowledged that the euro is making countries like Portugal increasingly poor, that the distance between countries such as Portugal and the centre of Europe, like Germany, is growing and that we are losing more and more with that distance. We have heard Mr Prime Minister, after the election of Minister Mário Centeno, say that this is the time when dialogue between States is essential, equality between States, which must be given priority to employment and convergence. Mr Prime Minister, I ask: what is the government's strategy for this change? What's the government's plan? And what is the commitment of Minister Mário Centeno in the Eurogroup to this strategy and this change? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u68	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u69	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, let's do the same exercise on the contrary, let's not forget what you said. And it is precisely because we have not forgotten anything that has said that it is very important that we have submitted the candidature of Minister Mário Centeno to the presidency of the Eurogroup. It is because we do not forget what has been said about the countries of the South, that is because we do not forget how the Eurogroup related to Greece, that is why we do not forget how the Eurogroup related to all the countries that have faced the crisis that we have presented the candidature of Minister Mário Centeno. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u70	And we did it because we didn't forget. And we don't forget why? Because by not forgetting we know that it is necessary to do different. As I have always said, and of course, in an association with 19 no one can, alone, ensure the final result. But there's one thing we know: who doesn't play, lost at the start, and we can't lose due to lack of appearance. So we need to get into the game in the best way possible... [[Congrats from PS Members.]] ...and it's better to come in and preside over that group than to be participating without presiding. What's the strategy? It is known from the Government Programme that the electoral programme already contains speeches which I have made, that the Minister for Finance has made, that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has done, that the Secretaries of State for European Affairs have done. What is the position of the Portuguese Government on the need for a reform of the euro area, so that it is no longer a divergent factor and becomes a factor of convergence of economies? This is a debate that was a taboo debate two years ago. Today, fortunately, the European Commission itself presents proposals for the reform of the euro area. The honourable Member will ask me: "Do you agree with these proposals? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” I cannot subscribe to them all, because some go in the right direction, others go in the wrong direction and others require good work and much work, and that is why we are all challenged. This idea that in Europe of the 19th is just one that sends is a defeatist position that we cannot take. We are as equal in the Eurogroup as any other Member State. And there is one thing we can be sure of today, that by having a South President, we will not hear the President of the Eurogroup again referring to the southern countries in the same way, as we have recently heard the late President of the Eurogroup doing. Ask me if we're going to have the euro we're dreaming of. I don't know if we're going to have the euro we're dreaming of, but there's a dream that we can't give up, which is that we're going to beat for the euro we want, for the euro we deserve and, above all, for the euro Europe needs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is the battle we will be fighting and I think that we are in better condition today than if we did not have the Presidency of the Eurogroup. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u71	Please continue to use the floor, Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u72	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, there is no defeat on Europe or on the Eurogroup in the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u74	Defeatism would be considered that we had to stay forever with a public debt that has a weight that bleeds our economy and cannot be restructured.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u75	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u76	Defeatism would be considered that after the German elections there is nothing left to do. Defeatism would be to consider that Portugal has nothing to do but follow the dictates that have brought nothing good to our country. in fact, the question we are asking and we are concerned about is that we do not understand the steps that follow to change whatever it is. from a European point of view, we have many doubts that something changes in the sense of convergence in Europe, but we know that this change is not going to happen through the Eurogroup. from a national point of view, we have heard Mr President of the Republic say that there is now more demand on our country, but we must say that we disagree. There will be no more requirement, because the requirement is here all in all, and the Left Block does not abdicate from it. This requirement is the requirement of the response to the country and to the concrete living conditions of people in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u77	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u78	That is why, on the divergences in Europe, perhaps unsanitary differences between us, we will certainly have much more to talk about, but there is something about cohesion itself in our country that we think is time to grasp and move forward with some determination. I heard Mr Prime Minister, at the beginning of the debate, talk about economic numbers, poverty numbers in our country, about fighting inequalities. We looked at the numbers of the National Institute of Statistics very carefully and we found that there is a slight reduction in poverty, that is what we have been working on, this has been a concern since the beginning of our conversations. But when we look at the numbers, we do not forget that one in five children in Portugal lives in poverty. And we do not forget, too, when we look at the numbers of education, that the children who live in poverty are those who are being left behind by our teaching system. There are twice as many lead in the children of the poorest families. This is a heavy inheritance of Nuno Crato and it is necessary to look to the future, and the future in Portugal requires a bet on education with courage to make fundamental changes. The number of students per class will begin to decrease, that is what we approved in the State Budget. We have already taken some measures together and surely the government needs to know that the conditions of careers and the linkage of teachers are essential for good conditions in schools. But this is also the time to look at the curricular goals and the imposition of impossible programs by Nuno Crato, which were made against teachers' associations and against all good international examples. The question I have to ask you, Prime Minister, is whether the Government has the will and conditions to begin to hold a broad debate on education, which puts our country back on a path where the school is the path of equality and not the path of exclusion. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u79	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u80	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, there is certainly a form of defeatism, which is not doing what is necessary to do. What we cannot accept is to hear from any bench what the right would convince us all for four years, that there was no alternative. What we have proved, and that Mrs Deputies has also proved, is that there is indeed an alternative. With active participation in the euro area, we have a different policy, which allows us to turn the page of austerity and have better concrete results in the lives of people and families. As I said in my speech, we cannot ignore how much we still have to do to regain the level of national wealth we had before the crisis, to regain the jobs we had before the crisis and to reach the levels of poverty we had before the crisis. The truth is that between 2011 and 2015 child poverty and poverty among the elderly increased, and it was not by chance, increased thanks to policy measures adopted by the right government. When the right has reduced access to social income for inclusion and to the solidarity complement for the elderly, it has promoted poverty among young people and older people. The measures we have been adopting allowed, only in 2016 — and attention, these data are only 2016 —, to reverse this trend. Poverty has not only increased as it has decreased, especially among children and young people, but also among the elderly, and this means that, with good measures and good policies, we can have good results. The anticipation of the data for 2017 allows us to believe that for the year, when the National Institute of Statistics gives us the result of 2017, we can verify that together we reduce poverty even more than in the first year of this government and this majority. The same is said about education, because the data that now came out resulted from an evaluation in February 2016. Who was evaluated were the children who reached 4. the year of schooling in February 2016, is the generation of Crato of 1. the cycle. And in fact, what the data reveal is the disastrous education policy of Minister Crato. This is what we have been inverting, starting with the reduction in the number of students per class, with the curriculum flexibility at each school level, with the promotion of vocational education, with new measures in school social action, with the replacement of tests by measurement tests, with school textbooks, with the measures we have come to adopt and which we must continue to adopt, because we cannot yet be satisfied with the results we have already achieved and we want to go further, not only to the levels of before the crisis but in the sense of effective convergence with the European Union average. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u81	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u82	Mr President, Prime Minister, transforming the school into an instrument of equality is something that must be done in the time of this legislature. When, in 2015, we made an agreement, it was to stop impoverishment. It is not for impoverishment and it is not for those who have suffered the most from the crisis unless the Crato method is stopped, which was made for only 30% of the students to have full use, as Nuno Crato himself said. Making this fundamental correction of public school is the only way to build equality and stop the impoverishment of future generations in our country. Let me tell you, Prime Minister, very quickly—this is a debate we are going to have here shortly—that there is no school where I go where students don't complain about the canteens, the quality and quantity of food.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u83	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u84	It would be tragic that since we were stuck with the contracts of the canteen companies we continued to have this very bad service in schools. Having the courage to rescue the canteens is the courage to serve better the students who need the meal they have at school. But, Prime Minister, I would like to tell you very briefly about other contracts, which are energy contracts. I heard Mr. Prime Minister say that contractual rules cannot be changed in the middle. I don't know if you know, but that's exactly what the previous government did. The former government changed the wind contracts in the middle, and as the Minister of Economics Caldeira Cabral said, and well, it transformed income into income and half.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u85	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u86	And with this I will finish, Mr. President. What is not acceptable is that it is said that a rule of law does not allow to change contracts when it is to defend who lives here and who works here, but can always change them on behalf of the companies that have taken more resources away from our economy. Energy companies have done everything they want with contracts.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u87	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u88	I will finish, Mr. President. A rule of law is the one that fulfills the commitments with its citizens; a 'banana republic' is the one that makes contracts always in accordance with the great economic interests. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u89	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u90	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, the rule of law is the one that caused this government to revoke a previous government order that would have an impact on the consumer tariff on the social tariff and the EESC ( an extraordinary contribution on the energy sector ). It was the rule of law that caused this Government to revoke rights previously granted for the exploitation of oil in the Algarve because those rights had expired and could not be renewed. Therefore, the rule of law must always be fulfilled, in all circumstances.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u91	You want to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u92	I will finish now, Mr President, but as an illustrious jurist you will appreciate my final sentence. It is precisely that what justifies the existence of the rule of law is that it is a limitation of politics and political will, because power, in a rule of law, is exercised in strict compliance with the Constitution and the law, whether it is to pay pensions, whether it is to pay wages, whether it is to revoke measures that are illegal, whether it is to comply with, even when it is difficult and incorrect to comply with. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u93	I will not now make any judgment on the sentence that Mr. Prime Minister wanted to pronounce. Mr. Mrs. Assumption Cristas from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u94	Mr President, Prime Minister, today has brought us the issue of social cohesion and I would like to remind you that in this matter the Government has some points of inaction that are incomprehensible. I remember that the European Aid Fund for the Most Deprived People has at present only 5 % of implementation, a performance still well below what it had last year, which was already very low for what was planned. Therefore, it is another year without distribution capable of food to the poorest. Those who help this Fund are those who are not entitled to any social benefit. What we have observed is that the rules have changed, but the government has spent more money on computer science and logistics than on bringing food to people. This is also coupled with a decrease in the rate of unemployment benefit coverage, so we are less unemployed today to receive unemployment benefit. Putting one thing together and the other, it's two misunderstandings. Mr Prime Minister, we are coming to the end of the year and, looking back, we see a very broad set of poorly explained subjects, hanging, to resolve, we continue to watch their governance, at points with more skill than in others, usually with a great inability linked to the most basic issues of the rule of law, and I wanted to make a point of the situation in relation to three aspects in particular at this stage. First of all, we are still waiting for a final explanation and for political consequences to be removed from what happened in Tankos. Finally, we know that there has been a theft, we know that it has finally happened because there have been serious failures, but we do not know what political and operational responsibilities the Government takes from this matter, and I therefore ask that today give us an answer to that question. The second aspect has to do with legionella. One more person died and suddenly the country seems anesthetized. One more person dies and no one gets angry anymore. My question, Prime Minister, is: has a report come out, there are already a few questions that are known, what conclusions and what responsibilities will the State also take on this matter?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u95	The CDS is always taking advantage of the deaths! Don't waste a death!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u96	The third aspect concerns Professor Xavier Viegas'report, moreover a report requested by his Government, which is not yet fully known. Finally, three weeks later, it was possible for this Parliament to approve a request from the CDS so that at least Members, if necessary at the closed door, have full knowledge of this report. But the question is obvious: why did the government not want to disclose it? If the Government and the Prime Minister know this report and know that there are contradictions between that report and that of the Independent Technical Commission, what do they do and what consequences do they have? Finally, what are you doing with this report, which I think is not entirely irrelevant? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u97	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u98	Mr. President, Mrs. Mrs. Assunción Cristas, I understand well the taste of the Portuguese right for home policy, of cases,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u99	100 deaths is a case? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u100	Did people die and you call 'case policy'? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u101	...because, in fact, as far as substance, nothing has to say but not to acknowledge the total failure of your strategy and the analysis they have made of the politics and political change of the current majority and the contrast with the result of their governance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why she does not really want to talk about inequalities or poverty reduction, because in one year poverty among children fell from 22, 4 % to 20, 7 % in Portugal, which means that from 2015 when you joined the government — for the first year of this government's action, there were fewer than 35 000 children at risk of poverty. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This, Mrs Deputy, is that it is indeed a positive change in people's lives. As for Tanks, if there is a theft, the judicial authorities will be able to ascertain. What I can assure you is the following: the weapons that had disappeared were found,... [[Oh, my gosh! It was more!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u102	... all the weaponry that was in Tancos was recovered in security conditions and if there is anything that is certain, it is not up to the Minister or the Secretary of State and I believe that, too, in his opinion, not even the Prime Minister to keep the parole of any barracks, of any military unit in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u103	It has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u104	As for Professor Xavier Viegas' report, as he said, well, he was commissioned by the government and the government did not hide anything, nor did he want to hide anything. There is an entity, the National Data Protection Commission, which has banned the Government from disseminating the report in its entirety. However, the Government has already made it fully available to the Attorney-General of the Republic and the Ombudsman.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u105	What about Parliament?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u106	Every family member of the victims has been handed over to the family from yesterday, and as soon as we receive the request of the Assembly of the Republic, we will immediately deliver the report to the Assembly of the Republic, because I am sure that the Data Protection Commission will not consider a violation of the law its surrender to the Assembly of the Republic, in accordance with which it refers. As you will see, the Government has nothing to hide from this report, which, in fact, has been, as you said, requested by the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u107	He continues to use the word Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u108	Mr President, Prime Minister, clearly we have a somewhat different grid of values and priorities. Mr Prime Minister looks at all these dramatic and serious situations — what you call 'cases' and'simple cases', I take good note of that — as a minor matter in which the government has little to say.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u109	It has nothing to do with it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u110	By the way, let me just remind you that the National Data Protection Commission has spoken because the government has asked for its pronouncement when it has received a version without the name of the people involved.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u111	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u112	Therefore, the government has tried not to send and not show the whole report. So it is good that he comes, that he comes in full and that we can discuss in detail, with all the complementarity or contradictions that this report has. Mr Prime Minister, I have three more subjects I would like to put to you and two more finals, because we are actually in the way of an end-of-year balance sheet. There are three issues in which the government reveals a great deal of trouble, in some cases decisions taken on the knee, in others without information given at the premises to those who are entitled. First of all, and on Infarmed, you have already told us that the government's decision is that Infarmed goes to Port. I read from here that Infarmed will go to the Port, although he knows his skill in playing words. So my question is the following: for what will the studies be done, for what will the workers be heard, and for what will the conditions now be evaluated, at a later date, after the decision is made? Does the Prime Minister not know that a change with the total dismemberment of the teams means that we move from the fourth place, at European level of excellence, to one of the last places in the table? Does it probably mean that we lose millions of projects that are already hired? I would like to hear about this, about this policy of first deciding and then studying, which is indeed regrettable. The second question concerns the lack of information in the right instances and with the Permanent Structured Cooperation. Mr Prime Minister, we in the CDS value the substance more than the form and therefore we said we agree and we think that Portugal enters this enhanced mechanism of cooperation, but I would like to hear you say here, in this House, that this too was a very poorly conducted process, in which your Government was playing democracy, in which you did not, in time, provide all the information for such a delicate matter for national sovereignty. The third point is about lack of information, Prime Minister, and it has to do with the business of the Holy House of Mercy. We still don't know anything and already on one side and on the other, if you start talking about administrators. We want to know who has interest in this business, who it will favor and whether or not it is acceptable that the money of the social game will eventually be applied to help save Montepio instead of being applied in social action. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u113	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u114	Mr President, Mrs Cristian Assumption, on this matter of the Holy House of Mercy, is a work which has been studied by the respective Bureau, with a view to strengthening the social economy in consultation with the Government, and have been taken decisions which the Government has supported, either by the former Ombudsman or by the new Ombudsman, who, in fact, was already accompanying these matters as Vice-Provider. With regard to the other issues you have raised, I believe that I have had the opportunity to answer and there is nothing more to add than not to be recorded that you are against the transfer of Infarmed to Port. Be registered. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u115	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u116	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, you not only answer the questions that are put to you as you still have the will to put something into my mouth that I have not said. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] I therefore invite you to review my statements and to be more faithful to the truth, which is something in which you clearly have difficulty. Mr Prime Minister, on the need for consensus, I would like to ask you two final questions. Mr Prime Minister often speaks in consensus on various matters. I would like to say to you, Mr Prime Minister, that if there is a party you have, I believe, from here on a lot of difficulty speaking in consensus is your party. The CDS presented 90 amendments to the State budget. They all deserved the same fate from their bench, the vote against, the lead.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u117	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u118	I shall conclude, Mr President. With regard to two of these matters, compensation for serious injuries and the captivating of vocational training, until it happened to drop the CDS proposals and then to present other similar ones that have passed, showing here an unbelievable sectarianism for a mature democracy. But on two specific issues, I would like to ask you whether or not they are available to build consensus, the first being the tax status for the interior. We proposed a method that has been plunged and my question is whether Prime Minister disagrees a priori of the idea or whether he only disagrees with the method.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u119	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u120	I shall conclude, Mr President. The second theme is water, thinking about the future, thinking of a drought which, unfortunately, will no longer be conjunctural in order to be more structural, which deserves joint work on this matter. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u121	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u122	Mr President, Mrs Christian Assumption, you know that the first condition for consensus, which is normal in democracy, is that people start by valuing their relationship with their opponents and not treating them as enemies. The honourable Member has been characterized by systematic disqualification and the personal insult of her opponents. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And that is certainly why it stands out of any arc, any consensus on any possible matter. For years, he even cultivated the doctrine that there were a number of political parties who, despite everything, had the right to circulate in Portuguese society and even to be able to receive the votes of the Portuguese and sit in the Assembly of the Republic, but understood in its high criterion that, although they had deserved the same vote of the same Portuguese as you, they were not entitled to participate in government projects because there was a dictatorship that imposed that the CFP, the Left Block and the Greens could not participate in government. Now that you're involved, Mrs. Deputy cultivates the systematic insult, and it's not at a moment of enthusiasm that solves insults, it's even when, in the coldness of her office, she writes the little articles she publishes in the media...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u123	Then read them too!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u124	... that resort to permanent insult as political practice. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] That is why, Mrs Deputy, who is in politics, as you are, is disqualified to be a partner of any kind of consensus in democratic political life. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And I tell you more, Mrs Deputies: who knows that the Government has given all the information in the Assembly of the Republic on structured defence cooperation, that it has done so in meetings at the closed door and with due confidentiality and that it seeks to benefit and support itself from this confidentiality, which is done on behalf of the national interest, and then to accuse the Government of failing to give the information which, indeed, you have given, Mrs Deputies, is not a fair way to stop the parliamentary debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] Together, I note the essential thing: Mrs Infarmed is in favour of the Infarmed in Porto, provided that it is not proposed by the Government and that structured cooperation is in agreement, although she cannot say that she agrees with the Government. It's recorded and we understand. Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u125	On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u126	Mr President, Prime Minister, was approved a week ago the State Budget for 2018 with the limitations that are known in responding to the country's structural problems but also with an important set of positive measures. By reducing the IRS as it had never happened in Portugal ; by ensuring a real further increase in pensions and reforms ; by advancing the freeness of school textbooks ; by ending the cut of 10 % in unemployment benefit ; by paying more effectively companies with profits over EUR 35 million; by opening prospects for strengthening public investment services that they need or by restoring the payment of the full Christmas allowance at the right time, the Budget incorporates a set of measures that will contribute to the improvement of living and working conditions of millions of Portuguese. We greatly appreciate these measures because they are important to those who live in their work or their small income and also because they all have the mark and contribution of the CFP. And we will continue to intervene to find answers to the problems that affect the workers, the people and the country. A central issue is the exploitation of labour, workers, their rights and wages. Breaking up the national minimum wage in €580 instead of advancing up to €600 in 2018 means blocking justice for workers who create wealth, but also blocking the possibilities of economic development, job creation and other sustainability of social security. in the fight against poverty there is also the valorization of the national minimum wage and the condemnable insistence on exploitation and low wages to resist the realization of this increase is not, Mr. Prime Minister, the way to Portugal. I would also like to bring to this debate an important issue related to the serious drought situation that is affecting the country. Drought requires immediate measures to mitigate consequences, but also measures to ensure that in the future there is no lack of water in taps for human consumption or in the fields to ensure agricultural and agricultural production. Investment and strengthening of public structures is necessary to manage, monitor and plan the use of water, as well as compliance with international protocols. Exceptional public support is needed to address the effects of drought on agriculture, aid for the purchase of animal feed in small and medium-sized livestock holdings, measures to support electricity consumption, tax exemptions, credit lines and exceptional support for small and medium-sized family farms. The Government's intervention to prevent speculation with animal feed prices is essential. Farmers complain that they are not being heard and the measures announced by the government are not appropriate or impossible to access them. So, Prime Minister, I ask you what the government is going to do in the light of the almost disastrous situation we are experiencing, the inadequacy and inadequacy of the measures announced and the multiple concerns that are being raised. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u127	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u128	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, this is certainly the most serious drought we have had in the last 80 years and that is why, since May, the Government has been adopting a set of measures directed in particular to farmers. The guaranteed line of credit was created for the minimization of drought effects, with a total amount of EUR 5 million, and the amount for each beneficiary is up to EUR 15 000. Measures to support the purchase of food amounting to EUR 2 million were created, available in 44 municipalities affected by fires on 15 and 16 October. It was within the framework of the Rural Development Programme that notices were made for the collection and distribution of water storage, involving around EUR 15 million. There was an authorisation for the use of laying areas for grazing and there was an advance of 70 % of Community support which has already enabled farmers to reach EUR 500 million. Between June and November of this year, around 5600 catches were licensed, 90 % of which are intended for the watering and drinking of animals and the Government has already reduced the price of water on the Alqueva perimeter. There is a set of measures that are being evaluated, with a medium- and long-term impact, in order to analyze the possibility of interconnecting large dams and higher capacity for regularization, the increase of dam storage, the construction of new dams, the updating of the National Program for the Efficient Use of Water, the reuse of waste water in urban hygiene and the contingency plan for each hydrographic region, to respond more effectively to this very serious situation that the Country is currently living. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u129	You have the floor again, Mr Jerome de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u130	Mr President, Prime Minister, I reaffirm that we must hear the farmers who are victims of this drought. Listen to what they have to say about their concerns and their production. I would also like to bring to this debate one last issue relating to public services, particularly health and transport. Regarding health, we are checking the accumulation of labor problems, the inability to resolve the situation in primary care, the lack of human and financial resources to ensure the normal functioning of SNS hospitals and the renewal of equipment, to which is added the problem of legionella and the transfer of Infarmed. At the same time, decisions are being made that lead to greater transfers of public money to private groups, such as the extension of the PPP (public-private partnership) of Cascais for more than two years, the announcement of a new PPP to the Eastern Lisbon hospital, the closure of six hospitals belonging to the Central Lisbon Hospital Centre, as well as the use of ADSE (Sickness Assistance to State Servants ) and other public health systems as a platform for transferring large sums to private groups. In view of this situation, I ask you, Prime Minister, for when a real investment in health to think more about Portuguese and less about the health business and the deficits of public accounts. With regard to transport, particularly in the metropolitan areas, we do not forget the fact that the privatization of Metro and Caris which the former PSD and CDS government was in progress, but we also do not ignore that at the end of these two years nothing or almost nothing has been done to solve the deep problems affecting public transport companies. Who uses the metropolitan network or the boat, who passes through the calvary of the waiting hours at bus stops or at the train stations of the metropolitan areas knows that the situation has not improved. Public transport is degrading and jeopardizing not only the quality of life of passengers as the very safety conditions in which they travel. instead, where promises remain, there are few workers and measures that have to circulate the 30 train stations that are stopped and that have to sail the ships that are lying down. It was in this sense that the CFP intervened in the debate of the State budget, proposing the release of the restrictions to which public enterprises have been subject and an increase in investment over 20 million, which PS, PSD and CDS refused. On the contrary, the Government announced the increase of 2 % in the transport price of the metropolitan areas, both on the tickets and on the passes, taking up one of the traces that marked the last government's action on public transport. Mr Prime Minister, how does the Government explain this increase in transport prices and how does it explain so much delay and lack of concrete measures to solve problems affecting thousands and thousands of people? [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u131	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u132	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, we must certainly make a huge effort to restore the investment accumulated in public services as a whole, and that effort has been made. The honourable Member referred to two sectors and I will begin by answering the question he put on the transport sector. With the measures already taken, it was possible for STCP ( the Harbour Collective Transport Society ) to increase by 6 % the number of users, Transtejo and Soflusa by 4 % the number of users and the Lisbon Metropolitan by 8 % the number of users. And this has happened thanks to the investment of EUR 10 million in the recovery of the fleet of Transtejo and Soflusa, the investment that was made for the acquisition of 510 new buses for a set of transport systems in several cities in the country, a total investment of EUR 150 million, the hiring of personnel by the STCP and, in particular, of 30 new drivers to the metro, essential to put into operation these compositions that have been paralysed. It is this investment — indeed, very significant, of the order of EUR 500 million — which will be made in order to extend the metropolitan network of Lisbon and Porto. It is an effort that we must continue, as we must continue an effort with regard to the National Health Service ( SNS ). Since 2015, we have another 5800 professionals in the SNS, which has resulted in concrete results in production capacity. We have another 607 000 consultations in primary care, we have more 50 000 consultations in hospital, we have more 11 700 surgeries in hospitals than we had before. Is this investment effort necessary to continue? Yes, it is necessary to continue, and that is what we have been doing. So today we have more than 36 new family health units than we had at the end of 2015 and we have more than 670 continuous care beds than we had in 2015. In addition, we are investing in the expansion and remodeling of the operating blocks of the Figueira da Foz hospital, of the hospital centre of Trás-os-Montes, of the Hospital Unit of Bragança ; in the construction of the hospital center of Vila Nova de Gaia ; in the remodeling of the urgents of the Hospital Center of Between Douro and Vouga, of the Barreiro Montijo and of Lower Vouga ; in the expansion of the capacity of the Center of Rehabilitation Medicine of the Central Region ; in the acquisition of a linear accelerator for the Lisbon IPO ; and in the launching of the processes for the construction of the hospital of Lisbon Oriental, of the hospital of Évora, of the hospital of Seixal and the hospital of Sintra. It is a great investment effort that has been made. As we all are well aware, the backwardness we had, particularly in the four years prior to this legislation, now requires an increased effort to hire people and invest in equipment and facilities. Of course, it cannot be done in two years what has been destroyed for four years.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u133	Don't say that! It's so bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u134	Even in the trajectory that we have been doing with respect to income replacement, with the proposal to increase the minimum national wage that the Government presented, accumulating the increases that occurred in 2016, in 2017 and the proposal for 2018, there is an increase of 15 %. We have come to create better conditions to resume the trajectory and strengthen collective bargaining. In 2013 we had 300 000 workers covered by collective bargaining, in 2015 they were only 500 000 and today they are already 800 000.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u135	You want to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u136	It is this process that we must continue to continue, at the same time as we dignify the work, combating precariousness, both in the public sector and in the private sector, improving the conditions for collective bargaining, continuing to improve the conditions of workers' salaries, as an essential condition for us to have fewer inequalities in our society, and that is certainly a shared objective. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u137	To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u138	Mr President, Prime Minister, I begin by referring exactly to the question of transport, because we are very concerned by the announced increase of 2 % of the transport price. This increase is not encouraging for citizens to use collective transport, but rather disincentive, and that is not the way we want to pursue, nor does the increase in the price of public transport securities mean the improvement of the services provided to the people, as well as the brutal increase that the previous Government has practised in public transport. Then, Mr. Prime Minister will not say that what will put the citizens to pay will serve to finance the enlargement of the metro in Lisbon and Porto, because this funding, as is public knowledge, is practically all done through Community funds. Mr. Prime Minister, the concern of the Greens is this. We went here to work hard to reduce the price of public transport to Portuguese families, particularly through the possibility of deducting all the value of VAT at the IRS level and by discounting the social pass for young people — this was possible because the Greens came forward and invested with the government to make that practice — but what is not worth giving with one hand and taking the other. Mr. Prime Minister, you know that the Greens have a great deal of concern about this announcement made by the Government. With regard to Infarmed, Mr Prime Minister has already made clear the mistake that the Government has made, in his words, because it has failed to communicate properly to the administration and to the workers. Mr Prime Minister, the question is: what guarantee is there that workers' rights are guaranteed in this regard? [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u139	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u140	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, the guarantee is simple: the law is to comply, the rule of law is to comply in all sectors and also with the rights of workers. The guarantee that can be given is that. As regards the transport price, there was an increase in production costs in 2017 of around 3, 4 %. The 2 % increase is intended to ensure, on the one hand, the social policies necessary for the promotion of public transport — fortunately, they have been improving, as seen by the rate of use of STCP, the Lisbon Metropolitan, river transport in the Tejo and some segments of Carris itself – and, on the other hand, the sustainability of the improvement of the system. This measure was accompanied by a number of other measures that have already been adopted: the possibility of deduction of 6 % of VAT in the IRS, Pass 4 /NP 18, a measure proposed by the Greens, and the generalisation of the whole Pass Country under23, a measure introduced by the Government and which involved a great effort. Therefore, we have sought to extend supply, increase investment, create better conditions for greater attractiveness in public transport to have more users, make an effort to support the segments of the population that most need to be supported and stimulated to use public transport and, at the same time, have sought to ensure the financial balance of companies, because without it we will have difficulty in supporting this improvement in public transport in the long term. So what needs to be ensured is the improvement of public transport and the increase in its supply, as well as the improvement of the quality of the service provided, and that is the policy we have come up with. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u141	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia continues to use the word. Ms. Heloísa Apollonia (The Greens). — Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, a greater attractiveness of public transport has never been achieved by increasing transport prices and Mr Prime Minister cannot put citizens to replace the State with regard to financing. On the other hand, with regard to the workers of Infarmed, let me just say to you, Prime Minister, that you did not make a mistake in communicating to the workers, you made a mistake when you did not involve the workers in this matter, which is something different. Just as different is the government's intention or decision to make, and sometimes the government says one thing, sometimes it says another, but what matters, in fact, is to ensure that workers' rights are guaranteed.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u142	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u143	Also on drought, Mr Prime Minister, let me tell you that, in addition to urgent measures, which must be taken, in particular to support farmers, there are two structural measures which are fundamental: one, is the revision of the Albufeira Convention; another, is the concrete application of the National Plan for the Efficient Use of Water. When I hear Mr Environment say that it is not time to review the Albufeira Convention, let me remind you that it is in our joint position and, therefore, it is time to do this legislation. I therefore ask you, Prime Minister, to remind the Minister of this matter. On the other hand, we are also concerned that we hear a Secretary of State precisely from the Ministry of the Environment saying that the National Plan for the Effective Use of Water is a set of generalities. It's not, and it has to be applied! In fact, if it had already been applied, very likely today, we would already be reaping fruit in this matter. Even to conclude, Mr President, I am not going here on behalf of the Greens, publicly, to congratulate or congratulate Minister Mário Centeno on the position he is now going to occupy; I will just tell you, Minister, that we are very concerned that this election may mean greater submission by Portugal to the rules of the European Union and the euro area. That would be very harmful to the Portuguese! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u144	In reply, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u145	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, with regard to the Albufeira Convention, I believe that we have celebrated 20 years of signing this Convention, in our contacts with the Spanish Government, we have kept this subject on the agenda and we are working on it, and we will continue to work with the Spanish Government. Thus, as we are seeking to update the National Plan for the Efficient Use of Water, so that it can meet the new needs we have. If I may speak as Mr Mário Centeno, who does not have an opportunity to speak in this debate, I would like to say exactly the same as he said two days ago: as for Portugal, nothing changes! We have our policy, which is part of the Government's programme and which results from the electoral commitments we have made with the Portuguese, from the commitments we have made with our parliamentary partners, from the commitments we have made with the European Union, and we have come year after year to demonstrate that it is possible to meet, with stronger public finances, with better conditions for growth, for job creation, for poverty reduction, for the reduction of inequalities and for the improvement of the overall performance of Portuguese. This is the path we are going to pursue and, I hope, under better conditions than in the past. The rules remain the same and we are no longer subject to the same rules as we were before, because they have not suffered any kind of change, and we will continue to comply with them as we have so far. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u146	To put questions, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u147	Mr President, Prime Minister, today we would like to talk about how he was born in Portugal. The government has set a 30 % birth target per cesarean birth in our country, betting, and well, on normal births. The latest data show positive signs in the evolution of the national average of cesareans, which currently surrounds 25 %, but, being the theme of today the reduction of inequalities, the data also show that the established targets are being exceeded in hospitals in the interior of the country, particularly in Guarda, Northwest or Cova da Beira. We also know that under the programme for the reduction of cesareans, these higher-rate hospitals will not receive payment from the State in 2018 for their admissions. Mr. Prime Minister, more than cutting into funding, does he not consider it more structural to make public investment in specialists and to improve maternity care in these hospitals? More, Mr Prime Minister: if there is a positive development in the National Health Service, the average of cesareans in the private sector is 66 %, a rate of up to 15 % recommended by the World Health Organization. Mr Prime Minister, what are the reasons for having these excessive rates in the private health sector? Why do these criteria, which apply only to public hospitals, not extend to the private sector where two in three babies are born through cesareans? What measures does the Government intend to change this reality? Mr. Prime Minister, in order to conclude with the NAP, humanized delivery must be a priority of the State and it is essential to be conscious of the benefits of normal delivery and the need to reduce the rate of cesarean sections. [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u148	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u149	Mr President, Mr André Silva, the global rate of cesareans has fallen in Portugal, contrary to what is happening in most countries. with regard to OECD countries, Portugal is in 10. the place, in a set of 33 countries, with a caesarean rate just above the OECD average. Since 2016, the Directorate-General of Health has been defining, by portal, clinical guidelines directed both to public hospitals and to private hospitals with the obligation to submit to the Directorate-General of Health reports on the assessment of care provided in each unit. On the other hand, the National Commission for the Reduction of the Tax of Cesarianas proposed the definition of goals for the rate of cesareans in hospitals, there, yes, of the National Health Service ( SNS ), which had an impact on hospital funding. What is defined — in fact, since 2014 — is that SNS hospitals should have a sustainable trajectory of lowering the rate of cesareans, no longer paying the deliveries that go beyond the improvement steps that have been defined in their terms of reference. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u150	To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Idália Serra, from the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u151	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members: I would like to begin this speech on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group by welcoming the Portuguese Government and also Minister Mário Centeno for his election as President of the Eurogroup. Congratulations, Minister! Congratulations to the Portuguese Government! [[P.S.'s applause.]] at a particularly important time for the future of economic and monetary union ( EMU ) to assign the Presidency of the Eurogroup to the Minister of Finance of Portugal, a country that has been subject to an economic and financial assistance programme, is a dual recognition : it is recognition of the success and credibility of the policies adopted in the country and recognition that this success and credibility are relevant to the formation of a new consensus on the present and future of EMU. But, Prime Minister and Minister Mário Centeno, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group would also like to reinforce that recent Portuguese experience, coupled with the objectives of budgetary consolidation and inclusive growth, is certainly a further value for the ongoing discussions on the future of EMU, a project that should promote economic and social convergence among its Member States. Congratulations to the government! Congratulations, Minister! We make vows of good work and also of good luck! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President and Mr Prime Minister, I would like to focus on the subject of the debate that brings us here today, on social cohesion and the reduction of inequalities, on an issue which Parliament's right does not want to talk about. And you don't want to do it, because, actually, while you were in government, you worsened the inequalities between the Portuguese. However, the Government brought to the fortnight debate a current and important issue for the lives of Portuguese and a very serious problem of Portuguese society, which is often faced with its social reality. And it does so without fear of being confronted with all the numbers and with the serenity of those who recognize that it is not all done in terms of reducing inequalities and strengthening social cohesion, but that the path taken is not as close as the right here today painted it when he spoke of some of the issues related to these matters and, above all, with the awareness that there is still much to do and much way to unfold. The data presented contradict this black scenario that they have talked about today and that they have talked about, trying to discredit the latest data, which today were brought here by the government in this fortnight's debate and which reflect the real economic and social situation and the levels of well-being of the Portuguese. Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the major conclusions we can draw from reading this data is that there was even another way. And that path was not to go and have gone beyond what was required of Portugal, particularly with policies to attack people's dignity, which was what you did, by attacking the Portuguese and the weaker Portuguese, who were cut off or subtracted social benefits based on prejudice and misinformation, but who, in the name of the balance of their public accounts, were no longer able to be balanced. So there had to be another way and it was actually another way. A path that would not mistreat the Portuguese people, who needed the state to say "present" when they needed the state, because they were always present when the State called them. They were Portuguese and Portuguese that this right referred to situations of aggravated poverty, unprotected families, people of all ages. Finally, it was our fellow citizens to whom many evils were done, citizens who did not live above their possibilities and who saw cuts in social benefits that ensured them minimum lives worthy of survival, because they had, as you came to state in this Chamber, but they could never prove, more than 100 000 euros in the bank. In fact, you are still today to explain to us what your criterion was...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u152	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u153	... that made cuts in social benefits, blind cuts, and that made poverty worse for Portuguese families. They were Portuguese and Portuguese to whom the right wanted to usurp dignity, also for an ideological matter. Is everything done? Don't! Indeed, in combating inequalities and strengthening social cohesion, the path is long and difficult, but it is possible to go. The Socialist Party is aware of the path we have taken over the past two years, as well as the Portuguese are aware of the commitments made by this government and by this parliamentary majority and how they have been fulfilling them. Over the past two years, Portuguese and Portuguese look at government action with confidence and credibility. Here today have been advanced, reinforced and repeated by Mr. Prime Minister some data that are, for days, public knowledge, but it is never too much mentioned - they are: the available income of families grew 3, 4 % in the second quarter of 2017, compared to the same period of 2016, and grew 8, 1 % if we consider the same period of 2015. It is recalled that, during right-wing governance, the income of families fell more than 4 %. There really had to be another way! Portugal is currently with the lowest rates of poverty and social exclusion for the last 13 years. Although the numbers remain worrying, the fact is that the results presented point to substantial improvements in the fight against poverty and social exclusion that has been carried out by the Government of the Socialist Party. in the last two years, there has been a reduction of around 360 000 people at risk of poverty or social exclusion and 116 000 Portuguese people in situations of severe material deprivation. On the risk of poverty, the most recent data show a reduction of 70,000 people at risk of poverty in the last year, of which 33 000 children and 24 000 elderly people. But these are issues that are not of interest to the right, which did not even bring them to this debate for which they were called. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u154	That means, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who, on average, during last year, left the poverty situation every day 190 people, including 90 children and 65 elderly people. There was even another way! These results leave us satisfied, but at the same time they bring us a great responsibility, as indeed has already been stated and reaffirmed by the Prime Minister and has been affirmed by the Government. Responsibility for continuing to combat inequalities in Portuguese society, particularly those resulting from gender, disability, ethnic origin, multiple discrimination, or from adverse family situations. Until then, you were caustic when you were in the government. But these are themes you don't care about! What we have concluded, with the results presented here, is that in the last two years, the effective fight against poverty and social exclusion has again been on the agenda of a Government of Portugal, after a long period of retreat in the fight against this scourge. With the Socialist Party in the Government, there are today fewer than 500 people at risk of poverty or social exclusion. However, we should not let our memory be erased, because preserving memory is a right and a responsibility of all of us and it will never be too much to remember, so that no one forgets, that the policies of austerity and impoverishment carried out by the previous government, the PSD and the CDS-PP, who sit on these benches, have caused total abandonment and social disprotection of the most vulnerable of our society...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u155	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u156	... and that every day that passed there were about 112 more people falling into the risk of poverty or social exclusion. But these are matters that do not interest the right parliament that is sitting on these benches today! There was even another way, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Overall, the rate of poverty intensity compared to 2013 fell 3, 3 percentage points. These are data that you have to hear again, you have to listen every day because you want to ignore them, but the Portuguese don't ignore them. People aged 65 or over have been explicitly reduced by the rate of poverty intensity to 15.3 % and when compared to 2013 when the rate of poverty intensity was 20, 6 %, this decline is even higher. But we also talk about Portuguese and Portuguese of other ages for which the rate of poverty has also been reduced. For children and young people, the index of material deprivation has been the lowest since 2004 and this, Mrs Deputies and others. Members, it is the result of this government's knowledge, work and will. There was even another way and we are going along this path based on the credibility of a government that respects people and that is composed of women and men with abilities, with evidence given and which today continue to give them, recognized in their areas, outside and within Portugal, with a deep sense of responsibility and social justice and with respect to the Portuguese, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u157	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u158	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, work, knowledge, confidence and respect for the dignity of Portuguese are a mark of socialist governance and a commitment to combating poverty and strengthening social cohesion. The Socialist Party does not need to renew with us its vows, they are very clear and firm, but the misinformation is so much and the escape to these matters is so much that the nude will be too much to repeat them...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u159	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u160	...because, as far as misinformation and escape is concerned, we've had enough here today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u161	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u162	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, two years ago when we took possession, what we proposed is that there was, in fact, another way. Another path that would allow us to resume a path of growth, creating more and better employment, reducing inequality, respecting our objectives in a healthy consolidation of public finances. at that time, the right was very clear in saying: "It is impossible! They will take the country back to bankruptcy and there comes the recipe of the custom: great public investment and huge financial irresponsibility! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” As regards financial management, we have made it clear: we have recently approved the third budget of this Parliament when, in the same period, the right was already in seven budgets, because it was never able, in a year, to execute and every year needed to resort to the amending budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] More: During the four years of right-wing governance, despite all austerity measures, public debt rose by more than 30 percentage points. We started in October, as planned, the reversal of the government debt reduction trajectory, and this has been recognised by the markets, with their rating agencies, by the interest rates, which we are paying today, allowing the garrote, which over us prevents, on the cost of debt for the financing of our economy. contrary to what the right did, we did not pretend that there was no problem with the financial system and all the problems that there was, one after another, we were facing, solving and overcoming. That is what enabled us to build confidence that the increase in investment would have existed, that growth would exist and that the creation of more and better jobs would exist. however, as we have always said, strong public finances and growth of the strong economy are justified in that this contributes positively to the eradication of poverty and to strengthen social cohesion in Portugal. We already knew that this year we were going to have the greatest economic growth since the beginning of the century, that we had already had last year and that we will again have the lowest deficit in our democracy this year. But what we learned again last week, with the data presented by the National Institute of Statistics ( INE ), was that soon in the first year of our governance, until 2016, we also had not only more growth, more and better employment, but also we had greater equality. And this greater equality results from good policies that have been adopted. Let us see, for example, what happened between 2011 and 2015. What we found is that the risk of poverty among children and young people increased from 21, 8 % to 22, 4 % and the risk of poverty among the elderly increased from 17, 4 % to 18, 3 %. Why did right-wing government during the four years increase the risk of poverty both among children and among the elderly? It has increased because measures have been adopted that have contributed to the increase in poverty. If we were to see during these years the family allowance was withdrawn to 8 % of the beneficiaries, the social income of inclusion to 34 % of the beneficiaries and the solidarity supplement to the elderly to 72,000 elderly. The increase in poverty was directly related to the measures taken by the former Government against the reduction of social benefits. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And to the same extent, the reduction of poverty and the reduction of inequalities has to do with the income policy that this government has adopted and with a new design of social policies. That is why we have been betting, from the first hour, on improving the available income of families, either by lowering the tax on work, either by increasing the minimum wage, or by resting the pensions that had been cut, or by resting the salaries that had been cut, or by increasing the solidarity supplement for the elderly and the family allowance, either by creating a new social benefit such as social benefit for inclusion, or by launching the national strategy for the integration of homeless people. We had, indeed, not only to restore the social policies that the right has cut, but also to launch the new social policies that correspond to our ambition to go beyond what we have already gone and further reduce poverty and further strengthen the conditions of equality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have made this change of policy, at the same time as we have succeeded in fulfilling all our commitments — commitments with the Portuguese, commitments with our parliamentary partners, commitments with the European Union which, from the very first hour, we said we would not fail to fulfil — and also fulfil what our legal obligations were. Taking advantage of the return to Mr Hugo Soares'Chamber, let me stress the following: Mr is wrong about what he says about the TAP or about what they often repeat about the privatization of public transport in Lisbon and Porto. It is that we have not breached any contract, because in the public transport of Lisbon and Porto we effectively stopped the disastrous privatization that was envisaged, not of any contract that was concluded but of a contract that had not been covered by the Court of Auditors and therefore did not exist. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And the contract of the TAP, which had been signed after the electoral defeat of the right government... [[PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u163	But what defeat? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u164	It was, indeed! That is why you are in a minority here in the Assembly of the Republic. That's why you're in the minority. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, it had already been signed in the afternoon and late hours, Mr Hugo Soares. We did not break the contract, we renegotiated the contract and bought what you had sold in order to secure the strategic domain of the State over our flag airline. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, Mrs Idália Serrão, what the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group can count on is the Government's serene determination to continue step by step on the road that we started two years ago. And I follow it the same way we have done so far: by fulfilling all the commitments we have made, by continuing to implement this policy that has allowed us to have more growth, more and better employment and greater equality. This is what we will do here and in Europe, because, unlike others who kneel, we have always said that we are in Europe by conviction, but we are also in Europe to fight for Portugal's rights and for the rights of Portuguese people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This conviction that makes us in Europe is the one that enables us to be loyal to our partners, in keeping with the rules that are in force, but still proposing the change of the rules that we believe should be changed, not giving up doing with the single currency what the single currency should be: a common currency that does not contribute to increasing differences but, on the contrary, strengthening economic and social convergence between the different states that share that currency. We want more and more to have a Europe that is a friend of growth, that is a friend of employment, that strengthens cohesion mechanisms and enables us to effectively strengthen the appreciation of Europeans for Europe and not a Europe that, by wrong policies, fosters fear and tranquillity and feeds populism. Don't! The best way to strengthen Europe is to help it and help it have the good policies that protect Europeans and strengthen European confidence in the European Union. That is our conviction and our determination here, in Brussels and everywhere we talk about Europe. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u165	Mrs. Members, we have reached the end of the first item on our agenda with the fifteen-year debate with the Prime Minister on social cohesion and the reduction of inequalities under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure. Before we move on to the next point, I would ask Secretary Pedro Alves to announce the legislative initiatives that have entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u166	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who have entered the Bureau, and were admitted by Mr President, the draft lein. 685 / XIII ( 3 ). a ) — Creates the independent technical committee for the analysis of fires that occurred between 14 and 16 October 2017 in continental Portugal ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and Os Verdes ) and draft resolutions 1166 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by valuing the Portuguese footwear, by supporting the candidacy of the Immaterial Cultural Heritage of Humanity and by valuing the profession of shoemaker ( The Greens) and 1167 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure efficient traffic management and management at the "Chamusca Bridge " ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 6. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u167	Mrs. Members, we will move on to the second item on the agenda, with the preparatory debate of the next European Council, under Article 4 ( a ). the Law of Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union Construction Process. For an initial intervention, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u168	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This European Council of 14 and 15 December will focus mainly on four points. The first concerns defence and that we will certainly discuss on permanent structured cooperation; the second on social, education and culture issues, following the proclamation of the European Union's social pillar at the recent social summit in Gothenburg; thirdly, an assessment of the migration situation; and fourthly, the achievement of a summit in an inclusive format, on the issue of economic and monetary union. Let me concentrate, above all, on this point in my first speech, since the honourable Members certainly do. Members will not fail to give me an opportunity to talk about the other issues at the final stage of the debate. The deepening of economic and monetary union is crucial for Portugal. in the 30 years of participation in the European Union, the two phases of our evolution are very visible. We had 15 years of strong economic convergence and 15 years of strong economic divergence, with the exception of the last three quarters. The first 15 years, only to signal between 1985 and 2000, were marked by growth rates never less than 4, 8 % and have become around 6 %. What has changed was indeed the difficulty of the Portuguese economy to meet the increased demand for competitiveness that the euro has introduced. contrary to what had happened when the single market was created, which was accompanied by the launch of cohesion policy, the launch of the euro was not accompanied by any mechanism that strengthened the correction of asymmetries between the economies and that encouraged convergence. So, as expected, what happened was an increase in divergences. The European Union ignored what all the technical reports before the creation of the euro were saying, in particular the Delors Report of 1989, ignored the experience of other monetary unions and what was literature on the optimization of monetary unions. Without a mechanism to correct asymmetries, monetary unions increase asymmetries and do not encourage convergence. That is why it is now necessary to correct a defect originating in the creation of the euro. Perhaps when the euro was created, it was understood that the political value of its creation was above the technical aspects of its creation or that the mere fact of reducing the interest rate was sufficient for countries most in need of a convergence effort to find their own financing mechanisms to finance this convergence effort. Perhaps that was the understanding, and indeed it was the case: the countries that needed the most convergence were also those who owed the most, thus corresponding to the wrong incentive given in the creation of the euro. Therefore, we all surely learn — and the European Union as a whole — with the effects of the 2008 crisis and in particular with the 2011 crisis. Today, we are better prepared than we were then to face new crises, but the first lesson we should be able to draw is that more than responding to crises it is necessary to prevent them. Therefore, to provide the European Union with its own budgetary capacity to finance the investments needed in accordance with the specific needs of each Member State in order to overcome its structural constraints and promote convergence is absolutely essential. I know that there are some who believe that the main function of own budgetary capacity must be, above all, to respond to asymmetric shocks. This function is important, but more important, it is to be able to finance the investments necessary for convergence and thus avoid the risks of the crisis. Secondly, we need to be able to provide the European Union with a genuine European monetary fund. And, therefore, the transformation of the European Stability Mechanism into this European monetary fund is important, particularly in order to be able to provide the single resolution fund. The completion of the banking union is of the greatest importance, from the outset, by completing what is already decided and which must indeed be created, as the common guarantee of deposits. A solution should also be found for the situation of bad credit in the banking system as a whole and budgetary coordination between the different economies should be clearly strengthened. It is particularly important for us to strengthen coherence between the different instruments, between the exercise of the European Semester, the use of Community funds and the budgetary capacity of the euro area as a whole. I cannot fail to welcome today the set of initiatives put forward by the Commission. I do not agree with everyone, but because, firstly, it breaks the taboo that existed for years on the discussion of economic and monetary union, I want to welcome the Commission's own initiative and that this initiative can be accompanied by the will of the Member States to be able to look at the economic and monetary union as a whole and understand that we must build the bridges and consensus needed for a reform that makes economic and monetary union something that serves the whole economy, strengthens convergence, cohesion, growth and employment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u169	Mr Miguel Morgado of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister and other members of the Government: Since Mr Prime Minister gave the motto, let me, then, begin with the question of economic and monetary union. Today, the European Commission has presented a set of proposals aimed at deepening the economic and monetary union to be discussed at the Euro summit, which will take place these days of the European Council. Let me take two statements that Mr Prime Minister has said, the first of which concerns the previous debate, but I think he has repeated it, more or less with the same wording, now in his speech. Mr Prime Minister said in the previous debate that two years ago these issues of proposals for deepening economic and monetary union were taboo. I know that Mr. Prime Minister has a serious problem with amnesia, and he has manifested it since he is Prime Minister, but now I am getting worried and therefore I want to help him.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u171	It's the Memorative!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u172	These proposals which the European Commission now submits, as the European Commission makes clear in its communication, reflect, to a large extent, the report of the Five Presidents, which is June 2015 — see! — two years ago. And this Report of the Five Presidents was largely based on proposals from other Member States, in particular Portugal, on the initiative of the last Government led by the PSD, such as the creation of the European Monetary Fund, budgetary support for the resolution fund, and progress towards the union of capital. Well, Mr. Prime Minister, this was two years ago! The theme wasn't taboo! But more serious, more worrying, in your amnesia, is the following: since Mr. Prime Minister became Prime Minister, I and my colleagues have spent a year challenging him to continue diplomatic support for these 2015 proposals. For a year, Mr Prime Minister said nothing about the matter and finally when he realized that he had no other strategy for Europe, particularly for economic and monetary union, he said that after all he supported the European monetary fund, the budgetary support for the resolution fund, the European deposit guarantee fund, and so on. All proposals for 2015! Take a good look! He went to pick up something two years ago, which was a taboo! There is a serious problem of amnesia that Mr. Prime Minister should correct. But Mr Prime Minister has now said another important thing: there are proposals associated with this package of the European Union with which Mr Prime Minister does not agree. Now, we would like to know what the proposals that he does not agree with are. I'll give you a hand. One of the proposals is to create a European finance minister in which the President of the Eurogroup is also Vice-President of the European Commission. Do you agree or disagree? There are other proposals that deserve weight and others even deserve to be excluded. We want to know, from the Portuguese Government's point of view, what these proposals are. For example, as regards the automatic or semi-automatic debt restructuring mechanism, is the Prime Minister agreeing or not? Should the budgetary capacity for the euro area be a line of the Union budget, as the European Commission now proposes, or should it be incorporated into that European monetary fund, as a euro area budget with own resources in the euro area? And within the framework of these own resources, what does the Government favour and what does it reject to function in that budgetary capacity? On economic and monetary union, I would like to speak more, but I do not have much more time and I would like to spend any time on the issue of permanent structured cooperation. The PSD favours Portugal's accession to Permanent Structured Cooperation, which is supposed to be ratified with Portugal's subscription in 25. the time at the European Council, but we put conditions and principles in place and we now welcome the Socialist Party meeting the positions of the PSD, in fact, as I often said, there was no reason why the PS did not do so. And those conditions are three. First of all, that this permanent structured cooperation cannot be an "adversarial" relationship of our participation in NATO in the future. This is very important to limit interpretations of a key concept that appears associated with Permanent Structured Cooperation, which is that of strategic autonomy. It is, then, a matter of setting limits on the interpretation of what this strategic autonomy may mean in the future. The other two conditions are that the evolution of permanent structured cooperation should not lead to the establishment of a European common army nor should it comply with the principle of specialization in armed forces'valences. The Minister of National Defence made a statement of those which he has already used to us, where, supposedly, he presents an irrefutable response to criticism, but in fact he has come to reinforce criticism. He said the following: « in the notification there is nothing to indicate the way to a common European army; its embryo is neither there nor no longer there». Well, that's exactly the problem: it doesn't stop being there. Since the process of permanent structured cooperation is open and indeterminate, it is therefore up to us, from the outset, an explicit statement of which limits for the evolution of the same process, which will be open and indeterminate. When these processes are indeterminate, there will be different readings than is implied. Some will say that there is no embryo of the European common army, others will say 'no more'. Therefore, at this point in time—we will then begin a debate on the draft resolutions of the various parties and, once again, I am pleased to note that the Socialist Party comes to meet the positions of the PSD—it is very important that the following should be retained: we also advance a budget of good faith and good will that we deposit with the Government, but there is not enough national sub-comprehension around the evolution of permanent structured cooperation which, by the way, in this Parliament, no one wishes. There must be a formal, explicit declaration that leads to the evolution of permanent structured cooperation for the future and that must be associated with the Portuguese subscription of the notification. And even I would say that not only does it offer no complications, it is a unilateral act by the Portuguese State which adds a formal declaration to the application for accession, as it would be healthy for all Member States to do the same, in the name of transparency, in the name of clarification for our public opinions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u173	Mr President, the time has already passed for your parliamentary group to have.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u174	I will finish, Mr. President. We have not been elected to build castles in the air, we have been elected to provide answers and solutions to the problems of European citizens and European institutions. That's why we're here. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u175	Mr Vitalino Canas of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u176	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members: It is not merely a ceremonial act that, in this debate on European affairs, we highlight and welcome what has already been said in the previous debate by the PS Parliamentary Group, which is the election of the Minister of Finance of this Government to the presidency of the Eurogroup. We know Europe and we know what it means. We know that for this election to have been achieved, consensus has been required between governments from various sources, from various positions, from various geography. We know that this election was only possible because of the Minister's personal qualities, it was only possible because the Portuguese Government is pleased with the results it achieves at national and European level and was only possible because the Portuguese Government was also able to make the promotion of this candidacy and to convince its European partners. Therefore, it is not merely ceremonial to highlight this circumstance here. Mr Prime Minister, the agenda of the European Council reflects that in a number of key areas the European Union is no longer in a merely defensive or reactive position, taking on its own risk of decisions aimed at deepening in key areas. While others, unfortunately, reiterate, as has happened with the unexplained refusal of the American Administration to participate in the process of building a global consensus on immigration, while this happens in other areas, in other areas, Europe continues to preserve its values and deepen those values.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u177	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u178	issues related to the central themes of this European Council are emerging in force, which is the issue related to permanent structured cooperation. We will then have a debate on the subject and the Socialist Party will once again express its position. I just wanted to say, Mr Prime Minister, that we are very pleased that Portugal is in the front line as one of the founding Member States of permanent structured cooperation. I would also like to focus on Mrs Carla Tavares, who will then discuss the Social Summit for Employment and Growth in Gothenburg, and its results, three areas: education and culture, the deepening of economic and monetary union and negotiations with the United Kingdom. I begin by addressing a normally untreated area in the European context, the area of education and culture. We see with great pleasure the plans to increase the Erasmus + programme; the aim is to make a network of European universities with combined programmes; the aim is to launch multilingualism; the aim is to promote student mobility; the aim is to launch mutual recognition of higher education diplomas. We stress this, Mr Prime Minister, because this is the true European integration, it is the integration of young citizens, who, from the outset, are used to integrating themselves into Europe, into the European project, and that deserves to be underlined here. Alongside the European Council, there will be the Euro Summit and important issues will be discussed. Mr. Prime Minister has already mentioned here more than once the position of the Portuguese Government and the Socialist Party in relation to the deepening of economic and monetary union. Today, the European Commission has launched a roadmap for this in-depth study. It is still shy of the set of proposals made, but we will certainly follow this debate. Mr Prime Minister, finally, I would like to stress that, with regard to the negotiations for the exit of the United Kingdom of the European Union, these have undergone significant progress, beginning to have an agreement on financial matters, on the protection of citizens'rights and on the border with Ireland. It is very important that this first phase should be closed and that the second phase of the negotiations should take place, which will define the relationship between Europe and the United Kingdom in the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u179	Mr Carla Tavares has the floor for an intervention also in the time of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u180	Mr President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members: on 17 November, the European Pillar of Social Rights was proclaimed in Gothenburg, and even on purpose the Government chose the issue of social cohesion and the reduction of inequalities for the 15-year debate this afternoon. In Portugal we have demonstrated, and proved, that there are alternatives to austerity policies and that the future of Europe must pass through the defence of citizens, social rights and the existence of more and better employment. The report on the European Pillar of Social Rights, approved by the European Parliament, which is next January, was prepared by Euro MP Maria João Rodrigues. the conclusions of the Social Summit for Employment and Growth, held in Gothenburg, resulted in important measures, important conclusions with regard to the implementation of the European Pillar of Social Rights. Despite this being a very important sign for Europe, there is indeed still much to be done, not only in Portugal, although many of the measures that have now been included in the European Pillar of Social Rights are already being implemented in our country, including the Programme of this Government. There is still much to be done and the European Pillar of Social Rights cannot be left simply by this formal and solemn declaration of intent, we must follow up and carry out national action plans. It is also not enough for the European Pillar of Social Rights to be an agenda item for this next European Council. It is also important that it be a topic for the next European Semester to be integrated. It is therefore very important to follow up on this Gothenburg statement and we would like Mr Prime Minister to forward this request to the European Council on 14 December. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u181	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u182	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members: With regard to the next European Council and the issues that will be on the table, I leave a first note on Economic and Monetary Union ( EMU ). The position of the Left Block, which is not now but for several years, remains: the proposals that have been put forward only deepen the inequalities and problems in these matters and, therefore, the debate will continue and we will have further opportunities to demonstrate our positions. But, without a doubt, the central theme for this European Council will certainly be European common defence. We have already discussed this issue in this Parliament, although information is indeed limited. And we continue to consider that it is limited. The fact is that the Government has already taken the decision, and it has already taken the decision when the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence went to the Committee on European Affairs to be heard on the notification signed in November. The decision was already taken, which was indicated is that the joint notification by the democratic scruple was not signed. however, what has gone from there to the front does not well denote this democratic scruple. It is important to clarify, for the sake of this same democratic scruple, what is at stake for Portugal with the entry into Permanent Structured Cooperation ( CEP ). Firstly, this is undoubtedly the most concrete step that the European Union has taken in the area of common defence — I think we can all agree with this — using a prerogative that is provided for in the Treaty of Lisbon. The Left Block has always opposed European treaties, because apart from them they have never been referred to by the people of Europe, they do not defend their interests, and this prerogative indicates exactly one of these issues. We have seen the creation of superstructures that centralize decision-making power away from national democratic mechanisms, which have served to deepen inequalities, which have served to implement the worst austerity policies Portugal has also witnessed and now serve to create the European Union of defence. It may not be written anywhere that the ultimate goal is the creation of a European army, but let us not be naive, Prime Minister: that is where this mechanism is going, and this is confirmed by several public statements by European leaders, particularly the President of the European Commission, about a year ago, so that we can not go any further. We remember that the armies serve to make wars, do not serve to prevent them, they never served.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u183	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u184	Secondly, I am addressing the issue of increased spending on military expenditure. in this case, there is no transparency, and the government is denying the obvious. in the notification it is stated that countries " undertake to regularly increase defence budgets in real terms in order to achieve the agreed objectives. This is obviously not off the targets that exist with NATO (North Atlantic Treaty Organization ) — as we know, it is also written there — but no one can believe that there is no increase in expenditure beyond the goal that is agreed with NATO. It makes no sense when we read all the other commitments that are in the notification of permanent structured cooperation. And, between what the Minister of Defence says and what the Minister for Foreign Affairs still says, no one has been able to admit the obvious: that there will be, in the medium and long term, an increase in spending on military spending, and this is a mistake. It is a mistake that more public resources are destined for arms and defence, when Europe and Portugal specifically need this investment for more employment, quality employment and more investment in public services. Thirdly, there are issues of national sovereignty, which concerns us, Prime Minister, because there is no clarification. The notification also indicated that Member States might have to amend national legislation in order to speed up defence decision-making. Has the Government agreed to amendments to the reserved competence of the Member States? Is that what's on the table? That is the issue which has not yet been fully clarified. I leave a final note on the process: indisputably, the process has been mismanaged and has not, as I said at first, been beaten by such a democratic scruple as indicated. In November, the Minister of Defence himself proposed sharing with the Members the National Implementation Plan of the CEP, however, the documentation sent to the Deputies was not the National Implementation Plan of the CEP, but rather an explanatory note on it, which in no way added to what had already been said publicly. It must be said and explained to Parliament in what way it is possible for Members to have a serious discussion on a subject which will clearly have long-term consequences, with information that is not more than what has been said before.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u185	Mrs. Member, your time is up.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u186	I will finish, Mr. President. We believe that if we are making a mistake that will compromise the country in the long term, and on this mistake, in this matter, Prime Minister, will count, unlike other benches that have done some juggling, with the coherent opposition of the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u187	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister : This European Council will be the last of this year and it has on the agenda such important issues as the defence or reform of the euro area, the analysis of the conclusions of the Gothenburg Summit on the European Pillar of Social Rights, which we also welcome, and again, the subject of migration. Mr. Prime Minister, I wanted to start with the topic of defense, not confusing the essential with the accessory and not changing the shape by the content. That is why, Prime Minister, I want to tell you clearly once again what the position of the CDS is. The CDS is against the existence of a European army; the CDS is against the institutionalization of a specialization principle, in which each army has a specific function to the detriment of the others; the CDS is against the idea of replacing our participation in NATO, which is, in fact, the structure responsible for more than 70 years of peace in Europe, by any European alliance, a sort of NATO only of a European dimension. Having said this, Prime Minister, and since permanent structured cooperation is none of this, the CDS has said since the beginning, without tibiasses, that supported Portugal's participation in this Cooperation. That is why I have heard you say here that the CDS does not have a clear position on this issue can only come from a Prime Minister who has a very difficult relationship with the facts and the reality. Mr Prime Minister, your intervention here confirmed what we already knew: we knew that the Government is managing this process in an erratic manner, in a light manner, in a strict manner, and that, in a matter where, fortunately, dialogue between the Atlantic arc parties has been a constant of our foreign policy, for the first time we have a government that takes a decision without involving, without appealing to the participation of other parties that, even above, at the NATO level or at the European level, communicate a set of ideas. The truth, Prime Minister, is that the Government, in order to protect the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block, tried to postpone a decision to the maximum, and this undermined the position of the Portuguese State.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u189	To protect us? Oh, my God! To protect themselves!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u190	The truth is, Mr. Prime Minister, that to avoid hostileizing the PCP and the Left Block,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u191	Mr. Deputy is an artist!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u192	... you closed the door to parliamentary political dialogue, political dialogue between forces that communicate an Atlantic arc. And if you don't want to hear what we're saying, listen, for example, to what Ambassador Seixas of the Coast said when he classified this decision of the Portuguese Government as a tragic mistake in the face of the delay,... [[Protests from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]] ... or listen to Ambassador José Cutileiro, when he says that the Government has acted with « incompetence » in this regard.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u193	What an exasperated excuse to escape your responsibility!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u194	That is why, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you a very specific question. on 10 November, the Minister of Defence undertook to send to Parliament the National Implementation Plan of the CEP, i.e. the specific project that Portugal has to participate in this Permanent Structured Cooperation. The question I ask you is whether or not the government will honor your word. Will the government or will it not fulfill what you promised? Will you or will you not involve Parliament in the National Implementation Plan of the CEP, sending this plan to the Assembly? Mr Prime Minister, at the moment we face the position of the Government, a great difficulty to realize that in such a matter the Government does not want to give information to the legitimate representatives of the Portuguese people. I can even announce that the CDS will present an amendment to the law on the monitoring of Community acts, in order to institutionalize that, at least once a year, the Government must come to Parliament in a specific debate on this Cooperation, and that before and after all the Councils in which Defence Ministers are involved in this matter are given information to Parliament, because we are very concerned about how the Government has so far led this process. Mr Prime Minister, the concrete question I ask you is this: will you or will you not fulfill your word by sending to Parliament the National Implementation Plan of the CEP? [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD MP Miguel Morgado.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u195	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister : With regard to the next European Council, it is essential that the issues concerning permanent structural cooperation and the European Pillar of Social Rights be addressed, but of course we also want to make here the framework for the election of Mário Centeno to the President of the Eurogroup. We reject Portugal's participation in Permanent Structured Cooperation. We assume this position because we consider that Permanent Structured Cooperation means a qualitative and quantitative step in the militarisation of the European Union, one of the pillars of its conception and nature. We assume this position contrary to what PSD and CDS do, which seek to test false differences in order to disguise that they are in accordance with the position of the PS and the Government, with Portugal's objectives and participation in Permanent Structured Cooperation. We disagree with Portugal's participation in Permanent Structured Cooperation as it corresponds to the constitution of the NATO European Pillar, with the intention of creating a common army of the European Union, centralizing decision-making and command-making processes and constituting a political and military bloc complementary to that of NATO, as opposed to Article 7. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u197	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u198	Portugal's participation in Permanent Structured Cooperation also represents the loss of sovereignty, subalterning national interests to the military interests of war, aggression and perverting the mission of the Portuguese Armed Forces. The creation of permanent structural cooperation requires commitments to increase the budget in the area of defence, for example at the expense of already lacking cohesion. In the face of the many asymmetries between the various Member States, with a tendency to worsen the problems faced by the peoples, unemployment, the devaluation of labour and low wages, inequalities, poverty and exclusion, the option goes through the deepening of the pillars of the constitution of the European Union — federalism, neoliberalism and militarism — rather than channelling resources for cohesion, to combat inequality and poverty. The European Pillar of Social Rights announced as the initiative to strengthen the social dimension of the European Union, signed in Gothenburg, does not go through a huge propaganda operation to deceive peoples, maintaining fundamental support for the pillars of economic governance that support economic and monetary union. of the 20 measures contained in the European Pillar of Social Rights, there is no vision of one that goes towards increasing wages, combating precariousness, effective defence of collective bargaining or fair redistribution of wealth. It is an ambush to which the government and the country should not be associated. Its sole aim is to legitimize the political options imposed by the European Union to attack labour and social rights, which are responsible for exploiting and impoverishment of workers and peoples and which have already shown that they are not solutions. It is not by chance that the European Union would spread a pretense concern about the social dimension. It is intended to continue the path of deepening the European Union in a future flight, particularly through the conclusion of economic and monetary union, of all its instruments and mechanisms, which are a genuine campaign for development and the guarantee of labour and social rights, as well as is reflected in our country. The completion of the Banking Union is intended, the creation of the so-called European Monetary Fund and the establishment of a European Union Ministry of Finance, focusing further on decision-making centres. It is not the appointment of Mário Centeno as President of the Eurogroup that will change the current state of affairs. We all know that decisions in the Eurogroup will continue to be made by the great powers, as also happened with the election of Mário Centeno. We do not feed the illusion that the fact that Portuguese assume institutional responsibilities in the structures of the European Union contributes to defending national interests. The past has already shown us that this is not the case. We have also identified a contradiction between the assumption of these responsibilities and the way in which it is necessary to deepen at the present stage of national political life. We reaffirm: the way forward is not to submit to the limitations and constraints imposed by the European Union, which prevent the development of our country, in particular as regards the need for strengthening public investment, improving public services, encouraging national production and valuing wages. The response to the country's structural problems goes through the disruption of this submission to the euro and to the European Union's taxes so that the country can develop and improve the living conditions of the workers and the people. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u199	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister : Permanent Structured Cooperation will certainly be at the heart of this Council's attention and we are very concerned about the priorities of the European Union and its militaristic trend. In fact, with so much to focus on priorities, the European Union's great concern is its militarization, but as this subject will be under discussion at the next item on the agenda, I am just going to register the Greens' concern with this militaristic tendency on the part of the European Union and to express our complete opposition to these purposes. Then, Prime Minister, on the agenda of this Council will once again be the issue of migration. The European Union says that it is intensifying its efforts to create an effective and secure migration policy and now also solidarity — I say — and the European Council plays an important role here, because it is who defines the strategic priorities of the European Union. I would like to know what position the Government will take on migration. Finally, I am addressing an issue that I do not know will be on the agenda, but if it is not on the agenda of the Council, it should be, that it is the fact that the US President announced the intention to transfer his diplomatic representation in Israel from Telavive to Jerusalem. Now, this announcement represents a real danger to peace, in the region and in the world, and there is no need to make a great effort to realize that this claim diverts any solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict, which will sharpen it and compromise the revival of any peace process. In good rigour, with this decision, the US administration is not only transferring its embassy from Telavive to Jerusalem, but is also making a decision with serious implications in the very status of the city of Jerusalem. We therefore believe that it was necessary for the European Union to take a firm stand on this issue. With regard to this, Mr Prime Minister, I also recall that this House of the Republic adopted a resolution about two years ago which recommends to the Government that, in conjunction with the European Union, it recognise the State of Palestine. What question is: What are we waiting for? How is this articulation, at what stage, and when will it be the formal recognition of the State of Palestine? [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u201	To close this debate, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u202	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: First of all, I should like to clarify the rapporteurs. Miguel Morgano and Pedro Mota Soares saying that the exercise they are trying to demonstrate is useless. It is known that, between the Socialist Party, the CFP, the Left Block and the Greens, there are different positions in European matters, so the exercise they do, in each debate, to try to demonstrate what we all know is absolutely useless.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u203	I didn't talk about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u204	More: it is an exercise I am sure that all the parties mentioned are, in fact, very proud to know.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u205	For discovering our own nose!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u206	Exactly! It is that if there is something that, of course, the Left Block, the PCP, The Greens and the PS are proud of their own identity and of being able to do together what they are doing without sacrificing it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What is a very sad spectacle is to see the benches of the PSD and the CDS sacrifice the coherence and their own political identity to mere political maneuverism, to the pure tactics of, in order to try to complicate life in the majority and overthrow the government, they are always creating foci of distrust and tension, always taking refuge in formal reasons and never going to the substance of matter. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] That's very sad, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! It's sad the show you've been giving. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If not, the gentlemen. Members did not come here to say that the Government did not inform them, when they were more than one hour together with the Minister of Defence, and all the information requested was transmitted to them.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u207	He said zero! That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u208	What's false is the gentlemen... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] What is false and indeed compromises a healthy relationship between the government and the oppositions are the conversations that are held at the closed door later serve for the Members. Ladies and gentlemen come to the public square to say that what was actually said to them has not been said! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] This is the reality and the truth of the loyal attitude and information that the Government has practiced in relation to the Assembly of the Republic. They now request the presentation of the National Implementation Plan of the CEP, but Mr. Members have good reason to know that we will not disclose this Plan in their operational aspects.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u209	The Minister of Defence has committed himself to this!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u210	It is that operational aspects have a secret nature and so will remain until the European Council understands...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u211	Secret? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u212	Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, at least you, who was Prime Minister, have a minimum of serenity! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Have a minimum of serenity, for God's sake!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u213	It's nothing secret!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u214	Mr President, when you have the opportunity to speak without unduly disturbing Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, I will continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u215	Mr Prime Minister, I think you have the right to proceed.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u216	Thank you, Mr. President. Therefore, we will not give any information that, among all the partners of Permanent Structured Cooperation, is not agreed to disseminate, because we are reliable and loyal allies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u217	The Minister of Defence has committed himself!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u218	That's irresponsible!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u219	Therefore, we will not disclose documents which should not and cannot be disclosed. As far as the fundamental issue is concerned, we have supported the development of the new policies of the European Union since the first hour, not as an alternative, but as a complement to NATO, not because of increasing expenditure, but because the expenditure targets are below those that have been assumed with NATO. But we do not ignore that investment in defence can and should be an instrument to support a European industrial policy, but it must also be a factor that helps economic growth, job creation and even greater convergence between the different economies. All the conditions will be explained in the resolution of the Council of Ministers which will be adopted tomorrow. This resolution by the Council of Ministers will say what we have already said 30 times, but it will also remain, as already stated, of the notification that we do not support a European army, we do not support the principle of specialization, nor do we support it as an alternative to our participation in NATO. Everything we have said will be made clear. Now that they have already descended from the Devil, they do not devote themselves to ghosts, because it is time simply to focus on reality, which is essential for us to focus and hold the political debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u220	So answer the questions I asked!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u221	As we have always said, these new policies of the European Union must be solidly based, and that means consolidating what the European Union has already achieved, which is economic and monetary union. We have therefore always said that we support all these developments in the framework of a reform of economic and monetary union which will enable it to be consolidated, not to be a factor of divergence, but of convergence throughout the European Union. That is why we also support the proclamation of the European Pillar of Social Rights and we believe that, in addition to the 20 principles it sets out, it is now necessary to implement these principles into measures and that these measures must produce results. However, in order to implement these principles in measures, it is necessary to move from the pillar to an effective action plan which takes account of the measures, their timetable and enables them to be properly implemented. This is how we will participate in the European process, but always in a constructive and active way, never destructive or passive, because we are not those who wanted to constitutionalize in our own constitution budget treaties, which we want to discuss and which we do not want to consolidate in the legal order through its constitutionalization. Because the Constitution, yes, is a taboo.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u222	Is the Constitution a taboo? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u223	It is the taboo of the supreme standard that must override all other rules according to the hierarchy of our sources of law. What we want to do is actively participate so that we can have a better economic and monetary union which is a solid basis for the development of the European Union, in particular through its permanent structured cooperation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u224	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u225	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u226	Mr President, it is to make an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u227	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u228	Mr President, I would like to ask the Bureau to distribute the last meeting between the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for National Defence, in which he committed himself, before the Members representing the parties, to disseminate — and was his initiative — the national implementation plan.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u229	Mr President, I ask you to bring this act to the Bureau so that it can be distributed, or then we will do everything we can to find it. I don't know if it'll be so fast. Mrs. Members, let us move on to the third and last point of our agenda today, which is part of the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 1119 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, within the framework of the European Union, integrate permanent structured cooperation in the field of security and defence ( PS ), 1121 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Permanent Structured Cooperation in Security and Defence ( PSD ), 1125 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by rejection of Portugal's entry into Permanent Structured Cooperation ( BE ), 1130 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Rejects Portugal's association with the European Permanent Structured Cooperation Mechanism ( CFP ), 1133 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government defend national interest in the context of the participation of the Portuguese State in Permanent Structured Cooperation ( CDS-PP ) and 1163 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by Portugal's non-accession to Permanent Structured Cooperation ( The Greens ). Of course, these draft resolutions are different from each other, both essentially and in the accessory, and I hope that in the presentation of the respective drafts the parliamentary groups will identify these differences. To present the PS draft resolution, Mr Vitalino Canas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u230	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Few know the designation EUNAVFOR MED ( European Naval Force Mediterranean ), the designation of the European Union's operation in the Southern and Central Mediterranean. The most known designation, a more humane designation, less militarized, is that of Operation Sophia. Sophia is the child born on a marine ship of a Member State of the European Union, after her mother was rescued in the Mediterranean. With its symbolism, this story is a good basis for launching the discussion of what is intended with a permanent structured cooperation that consolidates the common policy of security and defence of the European Union, a policy and a permanent structured cooperation that will enable us to defend and implement the values of Europe, the defence of the rule of law, fundamental rights, freedom, the security of citizens and peace. That is why in the Socialist Party we want a stronger Europe in defence and security. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, those who think that this is achieved by 27 or 28 autonomous and torn decisions are in serious error. The threats that our freedoms and our peace face disregard the borders between states. The alternative to Permanent Structured Cooperation and to strengthening security and defence policy in Europe is not state-owned individualism; it is the alternative for Europe to be defenseless or to depend to a large extent on its defence of other allies. The irony of fate, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who do not want to deepen the common European security and defence policy, call upon our allies on the other side of the Atlantic to defend us.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u231	Not one thing or another!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u232	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, six draft resolutions are under discussion, which shows the importance and historical dimension of this process and this step, but there are, strictly speaking, only two positions underlying these resolutions: in favour and against accession to Permanent Structured Cooperation. The Socialist Party is in favour; not unconditionally, but in favour of this historic step. Portugal, founding member of NATO, first-line member of the main developments of the European Union, Schengen, single currency, Treaty of Lisbon, enlargements, must also be a founding member of the CEP ( Permanent Structured Cooperation ). We therefore believe that this House of the Republic must adopt a clear position in this regard by adopting all draft resolutions which are in favour of accession to the permanent structured cooperation of the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u233	by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos Costa Neves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Geopolitics is returning. Emerging opportunities and the control of new risks and threats, almost always greater than States, call for the continued renewal of the European Union with full respect for the principles and values we share. hence the importance of strengthening security and defence skills and capacities, as provided for in the Treaty of Lisbon. Yes, for the PSD it is essential to consolidate the defence union, understood as the European pillar of NATO, so we have always considered, since the first hour, that Portugal should adhere to permanent structured cooperation. This enhanced cooperation ensures greater operational rationality, including the definition, mobilization and use of military forces, means and equipment, contrary to existing fragmentation. in this context, we also highlight the greater effectiveness of the country's financial effort and value the increase of research and development, as well as the defence industry and other industries with this connection. The sharing of sovereignty as a result of this option leads us to the core of national identity. that all the commitments to be made should have a transparent and strict expression. That is why it is essential that, in matters such as security and defence, European consensus is based on a firm national commitment and not on the sole choice of a government by nature. The consensus negotiates, the commitments work, both on the basis of the transparency and rigour of democracy and the rule of law. The defence of national interest implies that our commitment to the sharing of sovereignty that is expected is not unconditional. that is why we are waiting for the implementation plan, as agreed with the Government — I repeat, as agreed with the Government — because it is in it that we will express the binding commitments — I repeat, binding commitments — to be made by Portugal, subjects, indeed, monitoring. We consider the statement of principle as referring to the draft resolution that we present, where we state our motives and the three assumptions that we have always stated clearly. in this measure, we welcome the Socialist Party for having now incorporated this vision into its draft resolution. The appropriate time to make such a declaration is the notification of the application for accession. It is at the beginning of the process that you can and should solemnly state what you want and what you do not want with the European bodies. in this formal statement it should be noted that Portugal's accession is seen as a non-conflict and complementary exercise of participation in NATO ; it should also be noted that, despite this being an open and progressive process, it will not lead to the creation of a European common army ; and yet it will not comply with the principle of the specialization of the Armed Forces. I stress that both the Government and all the political forces supporting Portugal's participation in the European Union have, in due course, verbalized their agreement with the assumptions set out. I conclude by saying that our scrutiny of this process will continue beyond the next European Council and certainly not at the closed door. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u235	I have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u236	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The fact that we are debating six draft resolutions on this issue actually indicates, firstly, the lack of longer and longer political debate and, secondly, the importance that this decision will have for the country, regardless of whether it is obvious, of the governments that have been passing through. But the history of all these draft resolutions ends up being made of fire-fighting. The right presented projects to say that there was something to disagree about and, in fact, what happened, with the projects presented by the PSD and CDS, is that they are projects to protect NATO's position. This is very clear, it was there and it was not in other projects, especially in the Socialist Party. What we should be discussing here should not be a defence of the position of NATO or the European Union, but rather the consequences that will have for the country to enter permanent structured cooperation. There is clearly a very clear division of opinions in this Parliament, as there has always been, and therefore it is absolutely no novelty, but apparently the right one wants to see news where they never existed and never existed. But after the presentation of these projects came the criticisms to the process. In fact, these criticisms were practically unanimous in the Committee on European Affairs, it is true, because, in fact, there was a compromise for the submission of documents that has not been made so far. however, after yesterday's day, in which practically all day, until night, we were in the Commission discussing this matter and the problem of documentation, except when the day and the PSD, the CDS and the Socialist Party, after all, had agreed to vote in favour of their projects! What is taken away from all this history of these draft resolutions? It has been noted that there was indeed no political opposition, nor has there ever been — as the Left Block had said — at Portugal's entry into Permanent Structured Cooperation. So the right mask has fallen in the way of making politics today. This was a maneuver, a play to say that there was a big problem when, in fact, there was no problem. There is, as has always been, a consensus between the PS, the PSD and the CDS on military and security positions in the European Union and now have the opportunity to make this very clear, as the Left Block also has the opportunity to make its position very clear. We are not wrong about what the debate is on the table, because when we bring the debate to our draft resolution and when we take it to the Commission we have questioned and asked for all the documentation that was essential for a democratic, transparent and informed debate about something new that will have long-term consequences, regardless of the government in power. We are not aware of these discussions, because we are talking about a militaristic drift from the European Union, which does not respond to the crises that are supposed to be identified and which will only aggravate these crises. And when we reject mechanisms like permanent structured cooperation is not because we want someone on the other side to save us, the goal is not that. What is at stake is that the Left Block does not accept that militarism and increased arms and defence spending is the solution to the problems that have been presented by the European institutions. And one of these great problems is the existence of a large derivative of governments—I no longer say of movements, but of governments—of extreme right, and the response given to this drift is what these governments have always asked for: a military increase and military forces in European territory. This drift does not make any sense, it does not respond to any crisis that can be identified within the European Union. Therefore, with Permanent Structured Cooperation and the position of PS, PSD and CDS, it is clear which values are defended, which are certainly not the values defended by the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u237	Mr Jorge Machado, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u238	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss the entitled Permanent Structured Cooperation Mechanism, which aims, objectively, to create a common army in the European Union and to strengthen NATO's military capacity. The CFP rejects our country's association with this mechanism because this so-called 'cooperation' means another step towards the federalism of the European Union, more interference and imposition on options that should be sovereign and more a contribution to the militarization of the so-called 'European pillar of NATO'. The idea that the European Union is a model of peace and that this organization has been essential for the defence of peace on the European continent is a blatant lie. The criminal, illegal and devastating war of Yugoslavia, in 1999, clearly demonstrates that the so-called « European project » has always had a military component to impose on the « law of the bullet » the interests of the great powers of the European Union. But unsatisfied, the great European powers have actively participated in the promotion of various wars of interference and destruction in sovereign countries, always under NATO's baton, read the United States of America. Hypocritically, the United States of America and its faithful friends of NATO's 'European pillar' have brought the so-called 'peace' and the so-called 'Western democracy' to Iraq, Syria and Libya, financing terrorist groups that then commit terrorist acts in Europe and thus justify increasing militarization. The results are in sight: destruction, hunger, misery, thousands of deaths and a humanitarian crisis with thousands of refugees. These are the results of the so-called « policy of peace and democracy » imposed by the United States of America and by the powers of the European Union. If there are any doubts as to this subject, the latest news coming to the public, which realizes that, today, in Libya, human beings are sold as slaves, prove that NATO and the European Union do not defend neither peace nor democracy and much less human rights,... [[PCP applause.]] ...so that the militarization of these structures is unacceptable for anyone who defends the peace and peaceful resolution of conflicts, as imposed by our Constitution. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This ‘Permanent Structured Cooperation’ raises other problems that need to be addressed. The realization of this militarisation of the European Union necessarily involves compromising our sovereignty. in fact, with the creation of this common army, Portugal compromises its autonomy and independence with regard to the commitment of forces - it reads - the detachment of the military - and the development and acquisition of military equipment which is subject to the rules and interests of the European powers. Another risk, which is not of lesser importance, is the danger of the specialization of our Armed Forces. In a framework where resources, human and material, are already scarce for the constitutional missions that the Armed Forces carry out, the creation of the European common army will allocate national resources in a valid way to be defined, withdrawing resources for the multiplicity of answers that we have to give, and thus may compromise the missions that our Constitution has said. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The latest entertainment maneuvers created by the PSD, with regard to the sending of documentation, demonstrate that what they really wanted — and now, at the end of the process, it has been shown that it is impossible — was not to assume that it converges with the PS in this matter. We cannot fail to record the hypocrisy of those who announce that they do not want the common army and the specialization of the Armed Forces, knowing that for this very reason there is this so-called "Permanent Structured Cooperation". [[PSD MP Miguel Morgado's protests.]] This term « Permanent Structured Cooperation » is intended solely for the creation of a European common army and the specialization of the Armed Forces. Therefore, the position of those who take the opposite position is hypocritical.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u239	Hypocrite? Oh, my God! You will approve the Budget!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u240	The CFP therefore rejects this so-called ‘Permanent Structured Cooperation’. We reject the arms race because we believe that it is necessary to detach international relations and because we believe in the constitutional principle of peaceful resolution of conflicts. For the CFP, national defence policy must be determined by national interests rather than by other interests that have nothing to do with the interests of the people and the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u241	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u242	For the CFP, what matters is a Europe of effective cooperation between sovereign and equal countries in rights, peace, the demilitarization of international relations and not this path of militarization which, dangerously, leads to interference, destruction and war. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u243	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u244	Mr President, before I make my speech, I want to leave a little note. Right now, the CDS bench was accused of political hypocrisy for defending what it has always defended regarding Portugal's presence in NATO and Portugal's presence in the European project. It seems to me that political hypocrisy is much more peculiar than those who say that they are against this participation of Portugal in permanent structural cooperation and that they will then vote on the State budgets next to the government, where are the funds for this same permanent structured cooperation. [[Well remembered!]] [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u245	Do you want the common army or not? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u246	As far as political hypocrisy is concerned, it seems to me that it is quite on the left, right here in front of me. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS, since the beginning of this process, has been very clear in saying that it supports Portugal's participation in Permanent Structured Cooperation, the PESCO (Permanent Structured Cooperation ), which is also provided for in the Treaty of Lisbon, but does not give the Government — to this or any other government — a blank letter. For us, the red lines are very clear and that is precisely why it is very important that, in such a matter, we have the greatest consensus, the broadest possible consensus between the parties that support the presence of Portugal in NATO and the European construction, precisely because for us, tomorrow or on 11 December, monitoring in the participation of this same project is not exhausted. For us, a first red line is not to accept a European army project...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u247	Hypocrisy!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u248	... and this Permanent Structured Cooperation cannot move forward to a permanent federal integration,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u249	That's hypocrisy!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u250	...can't be the embryo of such a project. For this reason, we will continue to make a permanent assessment of this same intervention and, if there is a need to vote against matters relating to a State budget dealing with this matter,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u251	Yes, yes! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u252	... we will speak-CL - it, unlike the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block, which are very vocal in this matter, but which cannot carry the struggle to the vote. [[Hypocrisy!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u253	A second red line is Portugal's participation in Permanent Structured Cooperation cannot allow a specialization principle to be realized,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u254	Hypocrisy!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u255	... where the national armed forces' own valences are reduced, they are specialized, diminishing the importance of the Portuguese armed forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u256	That's what's gonna happen!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u257	A third red line is not to accept that this Cooperation challenges the commitments we have with NATO,... [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] ... within the framework of the defence of the North Atlantic, moreover, responsible for 70 years of peace in Europe. A fourth, and even very relevant to us, the red line is that this must be an intervention that potentiates the European pillar of NATO rather than being antagonistic with the existence of NATO itself. That said, Mr. President and Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, for us, there is a very relevant matter, which is to continue to follow up Portugal's intervention in this process — for us, this is vital. We will therefore propose to Parliament an amendment to the law on the monitoring of European affairs. For us, it is very important that this amendment can also be very consensual. For us, it is very important that the government, at least once a year, should come to Parliament to explain what is happening in this process. For us, it is very important that before and after decisive moments, particularly before and after the European Councils of Defence Ministers on this matter, the Government can provide Parliament with information because we have a great deal of concern about the progress of these same initiatives. They're not ghosts, as Prime Minister said. If someone thinks they're ghosts, just listen to President Macron's words and just listen to the statements of the President of the European Commission, Juncker. For us, it is essential to preserve these red lines. For us, it is essential to ensure that this cooperation becomes not a cooperation but a common policy. This is only possible with a permanent assessment of these matters in Parliament. And that's what we're also going to propose right away. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u258	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u259	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Once again, when we discuss some European matters, the Greens have underlined here the clear divorce that exists between the interests pursued by the European elites and those that are effectively the interests of the peoples of the different States of the European Union. in fact, when we have a European Union that provides a service to large multinationals or NATO, for example, we realize that there are other really important causes for citizens, especially at the social level and many at the environmental level, which are completely out of sight. The strengthening of the European Union's militarisation path is just one example of this obsessive divorce to the creation of a common army in a framework of service to NATO. The complicity and even participation of the European Union in military interventions of aggression and interference in recent decades demonstrate the logic and consequences of a belligerent policy, as well as the meaning of this path of militarization. This is in all ways a distance from the promotion of peace, from the perspective of the Greens of course. In truth, the European Union has been active in military financing and great powers of the European Union have sold arms to groups that have developed terrorism and crimes against the people. In particular, the cases of Syria and Libya, with absolutely devastating consequences, are mentioned. On the other hand, the prospect of an increase in the European Union's military component implies an increase in expenditure by means of the so-called 'defence' means, or we can understand aggression, withdrawing the ability to invest in key areas for the well-being and improvement of the living conditions of the peoples of the Member States of the European Union. at this time, it is at issue, as mentioned above, the eventual accession of Portugal to the so-called "Permanent Structured Cooperation", provided for in the Treaty of Lisbon, involving, inter alia, intensification of military capabilities and equipment, greater expenditure in this area and the provision of more combat units. This is not, strictly speaking, any priority for the peoples of the European Union, nor in particular for the Portuguese people, but it will be a big deal for the military industry, in which, for example, Germany and France have an interest and for the financing of which they intend to call the other Member States. In addition, Permanent Structured Cooperation is another significant step towards the loss of sovereignty of the Member States and the concentration of decision-making power in the major powers of the European Union, in particular Germany and France, at the level of foreign and military policy. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Portuguese Government has already expressed its intention to join the Permanent Structured Cooperation, but the Greens believe that for all these reasons and for many others that have already been mentioned here today, the Assembly of the Republic must oppose this accession. It is precisely in this sense that the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party presents to Parliament today a draft resolution for Portugal's non-accession to Permanent Structured Cooperation. [[Congrats from the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u260	For a second speech, Mr Vitalino Canas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u261	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After listening to all parliamentary groups and presenting all draft resolutions, we believe it is useful to leave here a summary which is understood by the citizens and also by our partners. Tomorrow, we will vote on a set of draft resolutions whose vote will result in the following: firstly, that accession to permanent structured cooperation is not the way to a single European army;... [[PCP laughter.]] ... second, which is not seen for the specialization of the National Armed Forces;...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u262	Christmas Father exists!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u263	... third, that the Assembly of the Republic will continue to follow this issue over time; fourth, that any kind of expenditure involved here is expenditure which is already committed, particularly in the context of NATO. This is the message that will result from the adoption of the various draft resolutions to be voted on tomorrow. And the message that we are going to convey to Brussels is this: Portugal will be at the forefront of the construction of this Permanent Structured Cooperation, but do so with conditions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-06.u264	With no further inscriptions, the joint discussion of draft resolutions 1119 / XIII ( 3 ) is concluded. ( a ) ( PS ), 1121 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) ( PSD ), 1125 / XIII ( 3 ). a ) ( BE ), 1130 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) ( PCP ), 1133 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) ( CDS-PP ) and 1163 / XIII ( 3 ). (a) The Greens) and, with this, our work today. Tomorrow, the plenary session will start at 10 a.m. on a number of points. First, we will proceed to the joint discussion of the projects of lein. 658 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Establishs the obligation of audits to systems with possible impacts on the quality of outdoor air, in particular the research of the presence of colonies of Legionella sp. ( Third amendment to Decree-Law No 102 / 2010 of 23 September) ( BE), 659 / XIII ( 3 ). a ) — Restores the mandatory audits to the quality of the interior air and to the research of the presence of colonies of Legionella sp. ( Fifth amendment to Decree-Law No 118 / 2013 of 20 August) ( BE), 676 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishes the reintroduction of the requirement to periodically monitor the quality of indoor and outdoor air in service buildings with air conditioning systems ( PAN), 680 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Sets the conditions for the establishment of the primary prevention and control programme for Legionella ( PCP ), 681 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the obligation to submit an annual plan of action to monitor and monitor indoor air quality ( PSD ), 682 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amends Decree-Law No 118 / 2013 of 20 August with a view to ensuring regular verification of air quality of buildings with air conditioning system, including verification of the existence of legionella colonies ( The Greens), in general, and of draft resolutions 962 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Exemption from moderate rate payment in cases of Legionella outbreak ( The Greens) and 1160 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake a study to assess the need for the implementation of a national health programme on primary prevention of legionaires'disease, which promotes an information campaign to disseminate the means of primary prevention of legionaires'disease and to strengthen human and material resources in the field of public health for the conduct of assessments, audits and inspections on the quality of the indoor air of public and private services buildings with air conditioning systems, as well as the quality of outdoor air in the perimeters of these buildings ( CDS-PP ). Secondly, we will hold the joint debate on draft resolutions Nos 1117/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government introduce in public procurement mechanisms to ensure greater quality in school meals ( CDS-PP ), 1155 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government respect the autonomy of schools, enabling the public management of school meals ( BE ), 1156 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop binding guidelines on the organisation and operation of school buildings, ensuring greater quality in meals provided ( PAN ), 1157 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen nutritionists for public school in order to allow effective monitoring of the ingredients, ensuring greater quality in school meals ( PAN ), 1158 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government determine the non-distribution of milk to pre-school and 1-school children. the basic education cycle, ensuring greater quality in school meals (NAP), and 1162 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — by the public management of school canteens ( CFP ). Thirdly, we will discuss, together and in general, the projects of lein.o 343 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 233 / 2008 of 2 December regulating the exercise of the right of association by the professionals of the Republican National Guard ( GNR ) ( PCP ), 547 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Statute of the GNR for the weekly reference time ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 30 / 2017 of 22 March) ( PCP ), 549 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The Statute of the GNR rests justice on the right to a holiday ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 30 / 2017 of 22 March) ( PCP ) and 677 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Statute of the Military of the Republican National Guard, as regards working time ( NAP ). Fourthly, we shall proceed to the joint debate on draft resolutions Nos 909/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Review of the Convention of Albufeira ( The Greens ), 1154 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the urgent revision of the Albufeira Convention ( BE ), 1161 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake the review of the Albufeira Convention ( PCP ) and 1165 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government review the proceedings of the Albufeira Convention ( PAN ). Fifthly, we will consider the report of the Possible Parliamentary Investigation Commission to the action of the XXI Constitutional Government in relation to the appointment and resignation of Dr. António Domingues'Administration. Finally, to Bill No 685 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the independent technical committee for the analysis of fires that occurred between 14 and 16 October 2017 in continental Portugal ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and Os Verdes ) and the motions for resolutions 56 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves for accession the Second Protocol to the Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the Case of Armed Conflict adopted in The Hague on 26 March 1999 and 57 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Council of Europe Convention on an Integrated Approach to Security, Protection and Services by Occasion of the Football Games and Other Sports Events, opened for signature in Saint-Denis, on 3 July 2016, no discussion times were allocated. There will be regular votes at the end of the debate. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 18 minutes.]]
