ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries, please. I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to report the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, information that entered the Bureau and were admitted, two legislative initiatives: Bill No 52 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establishs the system of balanced representation between women and men in the administrative and supervisory bodies of companies in the public business sector and listed companies in stock exchange, which falls to 1. the Commission and draft resolution No 620 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Extension of the period of operation of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the Recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box and the Management of the Bank ( AR President ). I should also like to announce that the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP has requested the withdrawal under the Rules of Procedure of Bill No 368 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amending Decree-Law No 57 / 2016 — The first amendment to Decree-Law No 57 / 2016 of 29 August giving greater justice and correcting incentives to agents covered by Article 23. o ( Transitional Standard ) ( CDS-PP ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the first item on the agenda of today's sitting shall include a debate under Article 225. the Regiment of the Assembly of the Republic, with the Minister of Health, which takes place for the first time in this Parliament. Each question will have a maximum duration of 2 minutes, followed by an answer in equal time, and there may be a reply with a maximum duration of 1 minute. Anyway, we're going to try to simplify the times a little bit, because one minute may not be enough to clarify the positions. First of all, Mr Miguel Santos, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretarys of State, Minister of Health, the PSD has been questioning him for many months about the decisions he would make about PPPs (public-private partnerships) in health and, during these months, the Minister has never given a concrete answer. However, we found that today the Left Block, by the voice of its leader, spoke of the lack of investment and defended that PPPs should be eliminated in health. The Left Block spent a year silent on health issues,... [[Protests from BE Pedro Filipe Soares.]] ... truly "has put the viola in the bag" for a year, and now comes to lighten the consciousness a little. And I understand why: because the problems in the health sector are insurmountable and are a direct result of the policy that Mr Minister has been implementing. So, the question I put to you, Minister, is the following: have you already opened the invitation to tender for the PPP of Cascais? It is that there was a statement by the Ministry of Finance that a tender would be opened and, a day or two later, the Minister declared that he would open an invitation to tender, but that he could either award or not, in accordance with the proposal and the economic and assistance advantage of the proposal itself to the State. I therefore ask you whether you have already opened the invitation to tender for the PPP of Cascais and what legal guarantees have been placed on the programme and on the schedule of charges for this invitation to tender allowing the Minister not to award the proposal he may be able to win. Mr. Minister has been in office for a year and the results are all terrible. I read only part of the guidelines given by Mr. Minister for hospitals: "There should not be patients hospitalized in monkeys and, if necessary, should be used in beds of mercy" ; "if necessary, use sharing and beds contracted outside the SNS (National Health Service )"; "I request that they do not condescend, please, with patients in monkeys, there should not be patients hospitalized in monkeys". Mr. Minister, we agree that there should be no patients hospitalized in monkeys. But these guidelines that come from your office really prove that your main concern is that there is no visibility of the problems that happen in the sector... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u5	...and that television cameras don't film patients who are lying in monkeys in corridors. That is absolutely regrettable, Minister. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u6	The honourable Member has already begun to experience — and very well — the so-called flexibility of time. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u7	Mr President, Mr Miguel Santos, on PPPs, I would like to explain in detail what is happening and what has been said. He asked me for a contest, for a book of charges. Mr President, do you know the procedural standard that leads to the production of a contract book and the launch of an invitation to tender? A study was conducted by the UTAP (Technical Project Monitoring Unit) of the Ministry of Finance, which was approved this week by Mr. Secretary of State for Health and Mr. Under-Secretary of State, Treasury and Finance that will be published early next week. All procedural and legal proceedings will be followed, Mr President, because there is something called compliance with the law, deadlines and methodology for access to the competition. I see, with great curiosity, and even interest, the concern of the honourable Member with the PPPs, even if he is concerned, he does not also change his opinion on the subject of PPPs, as he has recently changed with regard to other areas.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u8	That was positive!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u9	If that were to happen, I think it would be good news that would give the Left Block. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to this particular matter, the Left Block, with whom we are at a point of disagreement, has always been consistent. But one thing is right: on this issue, BE has never said anything other than what he says now. But I see that Mr Deputy, for the volatility of change of opinion, is able to be prepared to have a different position as well. The honourable Member has also expressed concern about patients in monkeys. Now it's bad to worry about patients in monkeys. Do you know why, Your Honor? You have spent the whole year desperately looking for the Devil, firstly, who did not appear to you—unfortunately for you, happily for the Country—and then for the chaos, the so-called theory of chaos. [[Protests by PSD member Cristovão Norte.]] Mr. Deputies, you can now consult by phone the waiting times for emergency services and even choose the hospitals you will visit. [[Protests by PSD MP Angel War.]] But there is another thing Mr. Member can also do, which is to analyze the press clippings of the winters of 2015, 2014, 2013, 2012, 2011 and see what is the metric of the chaos of VV government. Ex. regarding the metric that you now want to create. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u10	You have the floor for a reply, Mr Miguel Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u11	Mr. Minister of Health, then explain to us what happens in the emergencies and at INEM ( National Institute of Medical Emergency ). Mr Delgado, Secretary of State for Health, said that there were no situations of emergency chaos, despite all reported cases, and Mr Minister said that this year 'things' — let's know what this is — they are doing very well within normality. Therefore, I was asking Mr Minister how he explains 18-hour waiting times, people who go to the emergencies and then go home and then return or, then, the ambulances of INEM that do not leave, the flow of the emergency call time in INEM and the night shifts that are not performed due to lack of staff. With regard to PPPs, Mr Minister did not launch the invitation to tender for Cascais PPP and will have to make a decision about Braga by 31 August. I know what the Left Block thinks. I even imagine that the Left Block will present an initiative within the scope of PPPs — there was the expectation that it would do so next week and it seems to me that it will not drop. [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u12	I just don't know if the Left Block knows what Mr. Minister thinks about PPPs. Mr. Minister has already presided over the PPP of Cascais and has always made his career of jumping from public to private and private to public. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u13	The Minister even made a doctorate thesis, which concluded days before entering the government, on the public-private health combination and, in conclusion, stated: « In Portugal, in the last 30 years, the participation of the private sector in the health system has contributed to the improvement of efficiency in funding and in the provision of health care for competition and cooperation generated, by the more rational use of resources(...) » and out there. These are not your words, Mr Minister, because your words take them to the wind. That's what you wrote, it's written. Therefore, since you have not been careful to caution the issue of PPPs in the famous governance agreements, what I ask you, Minister, is how you will bare this boot. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u14	To reply, Mr. Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u15	Mr President, I am truly pleased not to say that it has been done, to see that Mr Miguel Santos has time and opportunity to make readings in the midst of the immense political activity that he is carrying out every day. I'd like to tell you that there's no boot for barefoot. In fact, I believe that Mr Miguel Santos and his Parliamentary Group have more problems with boots than anyone else in this Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What there is, Mr President, is something called coherence, coherence between what is written, what is said and what is practiced. What I am doing, Mr Commissioner, if you have not noticed, is to comply with the Government's Programme. And since you have the sympathy of reading my doctoral thesis, I could also read the Government Programme from time to time, review it and see what is written there. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u16	I've read it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u17	What is written there is that we will launch the notebook of charges, revisiting the problems and defects that health PPPs have, improving them. But, honourable Member, when the study of UTAP recommends that we do so and when no other study in Portugal, such as studies by the Court of Auditors and the Regulatory Health Entity, does not recommend it, I think we are talking about political coherence. And, of course, on this matter, we assume a difference of principle, which is known and which is very well worked and explained with the Left Block. Finally, Mr President, we shall certainly return to the theme of INEM in this debate. I know that, on the side of your bench, we will have an opportunity to discuss the famous theory of chaos, the times of INEM and the times of waiting in emergencies. I know that you do not see what is happening in the United Kingdom, nor in Spain, nor in France, and you do not even understand the respect that we have to have for the quality of professionals, that, since winter, with an epidemic concentration as severe as that which we had in the second half of December, you have given your best and that we have had problems for only three days in three hospitals. Mr. Deputy, frankly, it takes more to have chaos. I finish by insisting on what I said a short time ago: read the clippings of last winter's newspapers, since past readings teach us both for the present and for the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u18	You have the floor on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Minister of Health, the Left Block visited the Amadora-Sintra hospital this morning and found there what is transversally in the National Health Service : extremely dedicated professionals, but who are exhausted, because more doctors, nurses and more professionals are needed, and equipment that, due to the lack of investment in recent years, have already reached their age limit, being needed investment to replace them. Today, in the National Health Service, we find the need for a more capable and determined investment. That is why, for the Left Block, it is incomprehensible that, when the National Health Service needs more investment, its budget serves to finance more and more private funds. And this is where public-private partnerships also come in. EUR 450 million is transferred annually to private individuals to manage what is public, what must be public, which effectively corresponds to withdrawing money from the National Health Service, where it must be invested, to give to private people. There is no advantage to the State, there is no advantage to the user, there is no advantage to the public with public-private partnerships. The study by the Health Regulatory Entity, which says there are no significant differences, there are no gains to the public. There are, yes, gains for the private, and that is why they are bet on renewing and maintaining public-private partnerships. António Arnaut said: "The weaker the National Health Service is the stronger the private sector. » The Left Block adds: the stronger and more funded the private sector, the weaker the National Health Service will become. That is why, on behalf of the National Health Service, I ask you if you have already given your decision, if the government has already found the error that is to maintain public-private partnerships and if you are now ready and available to announce to the country that once and for all, the public-private partnerships in health will end with this income of the private in health. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u20	To reply, Mr. Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u21	Mr. President, Mr. Moisés Ferreira, allow me to begin by describing the situation that we found at the end of 2016, beginning in 2017, and which would largely contradict what existed in Portugal in 2015. We closed the year 2016 with more 4000 professionals in the National Health Service. Repeat: more 4000 professionals in the National Health Service. There are therefore a greater number of nurses, a greater number of doctors, interns and specialists. This was the largest investment ever made in human resources in the National Health Service. It is good not to forget the past and see how the years of 2012, 2013 and 2014 were. During these years, in which the PSD and CDS were governed, we had a National Health Service for the minimum. Therefore, we are making the greatest effort to recover the investment. And, honourable Member, investment in the SNS must always start with the most important part, which are people. Without people, without qualification and without reinforcement of the teams, buildings and equipment will soon advance. Mr Moisés Ferreira, I also tell you—we also have this information online at the SNS portal in the area of reform—which we have over 1400 investment lines. The thesis that no investment was made in the country hospitals in 2016 is clearly not true. I recommend that everyone visit the discriminatory list, hospital the hospital, and see what has been done. The honourable Member will say: 'It is insufficient'. Of course I do. We will need, at least four years, a full legislature to rebuild, revitalize and reorganize the National Health Service. Mr Moisés Ferreira, Lisbon has been in a strategic disorientation for more than 30 years from the point of view of health care. In fact, some of us today. Members of your Parliamentary Group visited the Amadora-Sintra hospital, which is an inadequate hospital of population reality. However, Mr Deputy, for the first time, Lisbon has a strategic thought that will represent the greatest public investment in the region ever: the launch of the eastern hospital of Lisbon ; the construction of the hospital support to the Amadora-Sintra hospital, in Sintra ; the hospital center of the Sixal to support the Garcia de Orta Hospital ; the expansion of the Garcia de Orta Hospital ; the expansion of the Lisbon IPO, deciding, once and for all, that the IPO is in Lisbon, thus ending with the ziguezags that happened in the previous Legislature and that also devastated and brought to an end the Alfredo da Costa Maternidad with the hesitations that have taken place. Mr, we are currently preparing the biggest public investment gap for the SNS that there is memory in Portugal. The four years of this legislation and of this governance will indeed be devastating in comparison with the previous legislation. On the PPPs, Mr Deputies, in essence, we agree. Since studies point to this and there is so far no one who has unequivocally said otherwise, it is worth asking: with a differentiated burden book, with a bill of charges that meets the requirements that the Left Block has placed, would a private operator do, by that hospital, or by another public-private partnership, better than a public operator? from our point of view, that is to respect the public interest and the interest of taxpayers and whether it is possible to do better that operation in private or in public. Finally, Mr President, with one thought: on this issue of public expenditure and private expenditure, I was able to read in a newspaper in a wrong way, which had increased the payment to private by 28 %, which is absolutely untrue. In the last year, it was made the smallest transfer of public money to the private sector of the last five years. In addition, next week will be published the report of the Directorate-General for Budget and I am sure that the PSD and CDS in particular will read it very carefully. in this report I have just mentioned. Mr President, as regards medicines, both in pharmacy and in hospitals, and as for the sector that is conventional in areas where the National Health Service is not present and where small entrepreneurs have local initiatives, we believe that the objective of ensuring — hopefully one day — that the SNS has full coverage throughout the territory must be pursued. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u22	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u23	Mr President, Minister of Health, we agree with one thing: PSD and CDS will teach no one about investment in the National Health Service, because in the past the only thing they could do was cut. It is obvious that the Left Block welcomes any investment and the hiring effort that is being made. But, in the face of the situation of the National Health Service and the need to give better health care to Portuguese and Portuguese people and users in general, more recruitment of professionals is needed, more investment is needed, which necessarily requires the release of resources. Therefore, financial resources cannot be consumed with transfers to privates performing surgeries, for privates performing tests, for privates placing professionals in hospitals or for public-private partnerships. What Mr. Minister said about public-private partnerships, I want to tell you that whoever goes to the market is not just going to see monsters, it's going to buy. Therefore, in view of the answer you gave, we assume that the Minister actually wants to maintain public-private partnerships. from the point of view of the Left Block, it is an error. The channelization of resources for private individuals at nothing benefits the National Health Service. It is more than time to say that health and the National Health Service in Portugal are not a market for private people to come here to make profit, they are, yes, for users to have the assistance they need. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u24	You now have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u25	Mr President, the Minister of Health has to respond to the response of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u26	You're right, sir. To reply, Mr. Minister of Health has the floor. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is some difficulty in adapting to the use of this regulatory standard. After all, it's really Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto using the word. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u27	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : Mr Minister of Health, I begin by complimenting you and your team. You know, Mr Minister, that you should not expect from the CDS any kind of argument about the theory of chaos, but, yes, about the theory of realism, about which, for many months, we have questioned it. I remind the Minister that we never said it was all wrong. In fact, we recognize — and we have even been criticized for this — their skills and those of their team, but there were problems and you were the first to say that things had changed. So, Minister, today we want to clarify problems and answers that need to be different. In view of your competence, let me tell you, Minister, we hope that it is not through what you criticized in the past that justifies what is wrong in the present. We expect you much more than that. With your skills, you have an obligation to do much better. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Faced with the problems, some already listed here, we expect from you and your team better answers. One of the problems I am referring to has to do with debt issues. The National Health Service — certainly cannot compare with the past — is having an increase in debt of EUR 27 million per month. Minister, this is not good, this captures the SNS. Debts to the pharmaceutical sector and device companies are firing and captivating as well. Minister, what do you have to tell us about this? What objectively does it intend to do to overcome this situation, which was not, at all, the one you inherited? With regard to MCDT (additional means of diagnosis and therapy) and delays in conducting widely recognized examinations and which were not notified in accordance with what you received, when we questioned it at the time of the discussion of the State Budget for 2017, the Minister said that in January we would have a bearing on waiting times. But Mr. Minister was interviewed last weekend, if I'm not mistaken, and he said that in February we would have that door. Mr Minister, we were grateful that you made an explanation on this issue, because the delays continue, and you cannot blame those who come from behind. Finally, on the issue of PPPs, and because we do not cast this issue on the point of view of ideological discussion — I myself make a statement of interest, to the extent that I work in a group that has a PPP and I do not believe that my honesty is beautified by that fact — I mean that, for us, it is clear that the interests of the State and the people are sovereign. When we talk about hospitals that are SNS and that provide services to Portuguese citizens, like other hospitals, the information we have is that there are advantages in managing these hospitals. Mr Minister, is there any ideological prejudice on your part to make the State not better manage these hospitals, manage other hospitals and present savings in the order of 20 % and 30 %, what is happening with PPPs? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u28	Mrs. Members, shortly before giving the floor to Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, the Minister of Health should have responded to Mr Moisés Ferreira's reply. As this has not happened — perhaps because it is the first time in this Parliament, in which we are having a debate with this format, I would ask the Minister to divide this response into two phases, first replying to Mr Moisés Ferreira and then to Mrs Isabel Galliça Neto. You have the floor, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u29	Mr. President, I'm sorry. I believe that for all of us it is a new experience this format of debate and I was indelicated in an involuntary way. I will therefore try to restore this indifference by now replicating Mr Moisés Ferreira's intervention. Mr Moisés Ferreira, the issue of investment in the next three years, as you mentioned, is essential. The National Health Service cannot be, as it was, in a course of degradation, obsolescence and deinvestment. So we have good news. As I told you, in addition to investments in infrastructure, we will have in the hospitals of the city of Lisbon and in the Garcia de Orta Hospital during this year an investment of more than EUR 40 million with Community funds, part of them for heavy equipment, such as computerized axial tomography and magnetic resonance imaging, that is, for precision medicine. The look of being focused within our budgetary context has our firm commitment that what we did in 2016 with human resources will certainly continue to do with infrastructure and equipment. I am now responding to Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u30	Mr Minister, I am sorry to interrupt you, but there has to be a clear division between Mr. Moisés Ferreira's response and the answer you are going to give to Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto. You have the floor to reply to Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u31	Mr President, I believe that, from now on, the pace of the answers will be regularized. Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, first of all, I thank you for the kind words you have spoken to us. I wanted to arrive at the end of the 2016 budget year bringing you good news. By doing justice to your repeated concern, legitimate and defending the public interest, as I have observed in the various times I have been in the Health Committee and here in the Plenary, I bring you the good news, regarding the execution of the budget and the debt, that the Directorate-General for Budget will publish next week the data of the implementation of December. And, Mrs. Member, we're gonna have the best SNS balance ever! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Deputy, this is the best budget balance ever since there is a SEC, the European System of Accounts, which means that we have not been misled 12 times between the initial budget and what we have executed. We haven't passed a balance of 30 to 372! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Deputy, until I tell you that we closed 2016 closer to the initial budget forecast approved in this Chamber in March 2016 than the review that was made for the 2017 Budget, which was made taking into account the debt drag effect, which came from 2016 to 2017, of EUR 200 million. You will not hear me complaining about the heritage of the past in relation to anything, just as you said, and very well, I will make a realistic speech. We're here to pay our debts, but also to pay your debts. Ex. They left. That's what we're doing, and that's what we're going to run. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The second good news I want to give you is about the stock of the debt. On several occasions, Mrs. Deputy said that she was coming to see the disqualification and that she had warned. In fact, it was talked until the procession was still on the dock. I think the prosecution, fortunately, did not leave the building and we will close the year as I had said at the beginning, i.e. with a debt stock that is in line with the debt that VV. Ex. They left. Therefore, I also give you good news on this matter, Mrs. Finally, on the issue that you raised in relation to MCDTs and maximum waiting times, as you know, Mrs Deputies, for there to be a regulatory port of time it was necessary to amend the decree that fixed them. The decree is currently in the Presidency of the Republic for analysis and possible promulgation by the President of the Republic. As soon as the decree is enacted, the door office will be published quickly. If it can still be in January, we will. What's new, Mrs. Member? It is that for the first time Portuguese will become established in the law maximum guaranteed response times for complementary means of diagnosis and therapy. Moreover, SNS will now have integrated responsibility centres dedicated only to the realization of complementary means of diagnosis and therapy. This is called virtuoso internalization of care provision in the SNS. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u32	You have the floor for a reply, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u33	Mr President, I believe that we are going to improve this dynamic because, in fact, some parties are being harmed. With regard to what the Minister said about the good news — that I would like to see it happen and that it will have to clarify — I am not surprised because UTAO (Technical Budget Support Unit) said that the 35-hour wage replacement and the replacement of public officials were clear risks to good budgetary performance, even saying that this expenditure could materialise in a higher growth than the objective envisaged in the revision of the State budget. So there is something here that is dissonant, which we will not now have the opportunity to discuss, but I leave here the challenge to be clarified, because what UTAO has alerted us is not in line with what Mr Minister has just said.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u34	To reply, Mr. Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, fortunately for the country, not always what UTAO says is confirmed. There may also be some questions on this subject that need to be clarified, and they will certainly be. Mrs Deputy, I would like to turn to the question of 35 hours of salary replacement and SNS charges with the replacement of salaries to see if we can arrange this matter. We went all year to hear that at 35 hours it was the end of the world. It wasn't the Devil, but it was the end of the world, because it was going to break down the care conditions, it was going to break up.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u36	It's coming!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u37	Mrs Deputy, now, it is also worth taking it easy because I haven't talked about the care performance yet. This is the best year in care performance in all lines of activity. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Isabel Galriza Neto.]] Listen, Mrs. Deputy. You have to be careful who prepares the chips for you, because they're not very good. [[PS's laughter and applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u38	The Portuguese aren't chips.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u39	Mrs. Deputy, when you visit, you have to be careful with the sheets that prepare you. You will probably have to qualify the office to support the production of chips. Mrs Isabel Galriça Neto, in health, the additional burden on human resources was EUR 171 million, of which EUR 111 million was due to the replacement of salaries, salaries, and 19 million, as I have always said, at 35 hours. Now, 19 million, Mrs. Deputy, are 19 days of operation of a large hospital in Lisbon or Porto. In addition, there are more 4000 professionals than there were in 2016. I therefore believe that, in terms of human resources and charges, we can leave this question arranged and go to others much more interesting and much more stimulating. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u40	For the Parliamentary Group of the CFP, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u41	Mr President, Minister of Health, it seems that this is the first time that PPPs are being discussed! The PCP has for many years been discussing PPPs, for many years it has been presenting proposals — from very concrete examples, including the PPP of Braga — for the rejection and reversal of PPPs in health. Mr Minister, we have also heard here today that there is no study showing that PPPs are better or worse. Let me tell you that the studies that are published and that have been known do not really focus on the provision of health care that are provided to patients, nor on what is the preservation of the rights of users and professionals. Mr Minister, we do not forget what has been the history of PPPs and the provision of PPP health care with the transfer of many patients, whose treatments are expensive, for other public units, managed publicly by the SNS, we do not forget the precariousness of the work burden with which the workers of PPPs are subject, we do not forget, Mr Minister, the availability of medicines to which many chronic patients have been subjected and which are being accompanied by PPPs. Mr Minister, our position is well known: we reject the PPP model and we argue that only the public management of health units is in fact guaranteeing the principle of equality, universality and general treatment.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u43	Mr Minister, the problems of the SNS persist and are clearly, said the PSD, indisputable. They are, because they have the clear mark of what the PSD and CDS policy has been in recent years. In fact, we can't placate them. In fact, as the PSD and CDS are often so concerned because the workers are quiet, I want to remind you that tomorrow there is a health worker strike, [[Ah!]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u44	... clearly requiring the fulfilment of their rights, the hiring of more workers. Mr Minister, there are still problems, serious problems, which have to do with, in particular, very extensive waiting times in emergency services until users are cared for by the doctor. Mr Minister, the clear questions we have left are the following: what structural measures will the Government take to solve the problems of the SNS? What are your prospects for reducing the transfer of the provision of SNS services to private people? In fact, Mr Minister, we completely reject this logic of favouring large economic groups and of privatization of health. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u45	To reply, Mr. Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u46	Mr President, Mrs Carla Cruz, on the subject of PPPs and the position of the CFP we have no doubt. We are well aware that it is an option and a political appreciation which is very old, which is not from now on, so we respect it, contrary to zigging and emerging positions that are appearing according to political calculation or the sense of political opportunity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam Member, it is also good, at a time when we are dominated by post-truth and false news, that we do a democratic exercise to counter false news. First, 2016 was the year in which transfers to PPPs decreased and it was the year in which transfers to the private sector decreased. Therefore, there is no favourable situation here except for the favor of the users, that of their right to access to health care. Mrs Deputy, also with the approval of the door that regulates waiting times, we will have the opportunity to be able to have responsibilities centres integrated in hospitals, allowing doctors, nurses and other professionals to be compensated for incentives to do more work beyond the base work corresponding to their working hours. This will also allow for a very strong internalization in the area of complementary diagnostic and therapeutic means. We will do so, and this year we count, at least in Lisbon and Porto, to have two large integrated diagnostic and therapeutic centers. She asked what to do about the working conditions of professionals, what to do about waiting times, the occasional difficulties that some emergencies still have. Mrs Deputy, as I said in my reply to Mr Moisés Ferreira, there are another 4000 professionals, but I stress another important thing: this year, for the first time, will be restored the extraordinary work of professionals in the emergency. What happened was the worst thing that could ever have been done, because it moved away from the differentiated medical emergency service with more than 50 and 55 years of age and left hospitals and emergency services delivered to a mercantile, shameful activity, from doctors without differentiation. That is perhaps one of the many impressive marks that the previous government has left and that we are currently seeking to correct. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u47	For a reply, Mrs. Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u48	Mr President, Minister, it has been a plan of the CFP to internalize and utilize the capacity installed in the National Health Service. In fact, this is a way of preserving and valuing what is the most valuable of the National Health Service, but also to reduce this way of privatizing and sending to the private. Mr Minister, I come back to the question of PPPs to ask which assurances means that studies on the one hand will not focus solely on the economic components — if it is more expensive or cheaper to have a PPP — but above all, Mr Minister, if in the future the models of PPPs are definitely to be abandoned either in the current model of construction and clinical management, or in another model because we say once again we reject PPP models, whatever they are. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u49	To reply, Mr. Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u50	Mr President, Mrs Carla Cruz, before returning to the PPP issue, I would like to point out to you one very important aspect: 2016 was the year that more Portuguese came to SNS in all areas of activity. This clearly contributed some of the measures that were part of the common understanding, including the reduction of moderate rates and the improvement in access and transport of non-emergency patients. But it is worth insisting when it is said that the SNS is having difficulties: 2016 was the year when the Portuguese began to return to the SNS, and this will be demonstrated by the data that will be published in the different care lines. Mrs Deputy, on PPPs, I believe that we certainly have room and time to deepen what has been done in terms of studies. The question is not whether or not there is an alternative cost, if the millions that are given to the hospital managed in public-private partnership will no longer be given, because that money is there. It is only to know — and the question is — whether the current model of clinical management with a private operator responds better or worse to access rights and care quality. On this subject, in addition to the studies we have of UTAP, we are available to discuss with everyone, particularly with the PCP, the approach of this study and others that can effectively qualify this decision and give it a condition for it to be taken in the best possible conditions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u51	For the Green Parliamentary Group, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Health, the National Health Service continues to experience the effects caused by four years of PSD/CDS government, whose health policy was mainly marked by blind cuts in an area as sensitive as this and by the closure of health services throughout the country. It is not strange, therefore, that there is much to do to at least put things as they were before the PSD/CDS government to take possession. We know that the problems are many and that they don't solve one day or another, but we still have some concerns that we wanted to leave here. The first one is held with the Hospital Center of Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro. As you know, Mr. Minister, five assistants from the clinical director of this hospital dropped out of jail in October last year, claiming profound differences in the project that the current administration intends for this hospital. Demission clinicians have already been heard in the Parliamentary Health Commission, where they have stated that there is a lack of respect for careers, hierarchies and ethical rules. As we could understand, these professionals will have been replaced in November by professionals without proper graduation for the positions they were occupied, although there are many doctors with enough curricula to occupy the places of direction. We are talking about bad conditions in the hospital, with intimidating maneuvers and persecution. In fact, the Northern Regional Section of the Medical Order opened a process on the subject and found that the situation in Vila Real is critical and is causing major disturbances within the hospital. Mr Minister, we would like you to say something about the charges that have been made in the Parliamentary Health Commission, in particular with regard to manoeuvres of persecution by the administration. But it was also important to know whether, from the Government's perspective, this bad state of affairs is causing problems in the desirable functioning of this hospital and whether it is reflecting on the quality of the service provided to users, because that is the most important part. The second question relates to the Hospital de Braga. The Court of Auditors presented, at the end of last year, a document revealing that the Hospital de Braga, a public-private partnership, presents an increase in the waiting time for consultations and surgeries. In 2015, patients waited, on average, 117 days for a consultation, which is, at all, unacceptable, as Mr. Minister will certainly recognize. According to the Court of Auditors, the management company has operated since 2011 and will continue to operate until the end of the contract in a situation of technical bankruptcy. As we know, by 31 December this year, the government will have to say something, i.e. whether or not it keeps the contract. in this sense, it would be important to realize whether or not the government intends to maintain the model of public-private partnership at the Hospital de Braga or whether, finally, we will have a public management, as in our understanding would be desirable.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u53	You have wasted your time, so you can no longer exercise the right to reply, but the Minister has the right to reply. You have the floor, Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u54	Mr President, Mr José Luís Ferreira, before answering the concrete question he raises about the hospitals of the North — the Hospital Center of Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro and the Hospital of Braga — let me share with you a reflection that I consider very important for understanding the changes that are taking place in the National Health Service. The honourable Member said well, and we all recognize it, that the starting point was very difficult and very hostile to the working conditions in the SNS. And what we have today, Mr. Member, as I have already mentioned more than once, in addition to the 4000 new professionals, is the largest number of doctors enrolled in the National Health Service. It was a success the recruitment program of retired doctors. And why was that a success? They are experienced doctors, physicians of medical careers, they are in many cases medical specialists in general and family medicine, known to their users. So today we have nearly 400 retired doctors working at the SNS. But, Mr. Member, there is also data, which are professional orders, are not from the government, which realizes that the number of nurses who emigrated in 2016 was the lowest ever, was less than half of the number of nurses who emigrated in 2015. And many of these nurses are coming directly to the National Health Service. It was not voluntary emigration, Member of the House, it was forced emigration from those to whom it was said, 'it will leave because you do not deserve to work in your country'. [[PSD protests.]] These are coming back and qualifying our National Health Service. The same is true of doctors. The number of doctors who emigrated or who applied for leave to emigrate this year was less than half the number of doctors who did so last year. Well, we have nothing against emigration. Voluntary emigration, desired, is useful. People do it for professional reasons. We all have situations like these in the family or we did it ourselves. We have to create conditions for, in an SNS that needs qualified resources, bring these people to us. On the question of Tres-os-Montes and Alto Douro, Member of Parliament, you will understand that I will not appreciate or comment on individual positions of professionals in a hospital that are framed by a board of directors and a clinical direction. In particular, the ARS ( Regional Health Administration ) of the North found out what had happened and tried to understand the reason for the dissatisfaction in correcting this situation. One thing I assure you: someone persecuted, whatever it is, will certainly not exist, because if there is, whoever does it will be punished and removed. What I also want to tell you is that the Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro Hospital Center was in very difficult situation, but today, with the local management team and ARS, we are making an effort to rehabilitate the Centre and we have a great expectation, Mr. Deputies : the decree-law recently promulgated by Mr. President of the Republic, which opens the possibility of hiring doctors with indoor incentives, is published and the office is being finalized that allows the vacancies, locations and specialties to be fixed. Therefore, we believe that, finally, little by little, we will have the conditions to strengthen the clinical body of these hospitals, which are often close to the major centers but cannot attract enough quality professionals. On Braga and Cascais, Member of Parliament, I have already had the opportunity to say several times that these are different realities. The study that was conducted by UTAP focused on Cascais, for a decision on Cascais. Braga is a completely separate situation and will be evaluated and studied autonomously in its own time, so that the political decision is also supported in a convenient technical assessment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u55	You now have the floor to put your questions, Mr Antonio Sales.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u56	Mr President, Minister of Health, it is with some concern and even sadness that I find that you are the Commissioner. PSD and CDS members continue to maintain the Azedume and Cryspatation register and continue to assess SNS hospitals and the notorious debt as if it were accounting companies. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u57	Mrs. Members, health does not generate operational results, cash flow and ratios to show in Brussels, health generates life and well-being, essential assets for everything else to exist. For the ladies. Members, the health of the human being is summarized as cataloguing revenue and expenditure; we favour care indicators, motivated professionals and quality of service provided. That's the SNS we intransigently defend. And that is why we strive to ensure that the management criteria of the SNS rely on the quality of the service provided but also on the evaluation and accountability of those who manage. But the strangest thing about all of this, Minister, about the debt of hospitals, is that Mr. members of the opposition insist on mistreating and criticizing the hospital managers they themselves appointed in 2011 and that the current government, in a responsible way, and in its vast majority, maintained, thus respecting the taxpayer's money and granting the benefit of doubt to the management capacity of each. But the choice was yours, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, the choice was yours! We are therefore surprised that they are indeed so disappointed. Were these managers who named in 2011 and who were so competent between 2011 and 2015 left being in 2016? Oh, my God! We want to believe you don't, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. It is appropriate to say that if your criticisms are about the philosophy and management model of the SNS, then we are sure that we are on the right track, if it is about the ability of the managers that VV. Ex.as have chosen, according to your will, in 2011 then, perhaps, we must consider some changes. Mr Minister, this was the framework for the question I would like to ask you, which is the following: to what extent is the Minister planning to improve the evaluation and accountability of management and hospital managers? I would also like to know whether the consequences of this assessment should have an effect on the level of self-management and whether such effects should be impacted on the maintenance or replacement of those who show unsatisfactory performance, thus introducing a new culture of evaluation and a new culture of accountability. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u58	To reply, Mr. Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u59	Mr President, Mr António Sales, the question on accountability and evaluation is of course of the greatest importance. It had announced, the last time I was in the Health Committee, that the Commission for the Evaluation of the Boards of Directors of EPE Hospitals would finally be set up. That will be the case, Mr President, it is now being completed by the Office of the Under-Secretary of State and Health and also by the Office of the Minister of Finance. The question of accountability and evaluation is only about defending the public good and the common interest, and it has to do with a very simple circumstance: as you said, and very well, the administrations have to fulfil their mandates and it is not because they are appointed by the Government to or by the Government b which must simply be removed by any automation. That has been, and will continue to be, our guidance line. Some Boards of Directors will now complete their mandates and submit their accounts. For it will be the time of this evaluation to be made, in line with the entity that protects them. But I would also like to say the following: they are on the SNS portal, for the same groups of hospitals, the differences between the best and the worst. Therefore, the question is never, only and only, a matter of financing, because, with the same money, Mr. Deputies, the hospital can do much better than hospital b does, and this difference is not in funding, is in the quality of management. I challenge everyone to make this assessment in a framework called SNS Benchmark. The same groups of hospitals, with the same money, have different performances, which means that management makes all the difference. And quality management is of the greatest importance for the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u60	To put your questions, Mr Luís Vales has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u61	Mr President, Minister of Health, Mr Minister of Health, Mr Minister appointed the SNS reform committee, with a pump and circumstances, over a year ago. A few months ago, in February, Dr. António Ferreira resigned; in August, with a view to relaunching the hospital reform, he appointed another coordinator; after that... After that, Mr. Minister, nothing! It's just that nothing happened! We would like to ask you, Minister: what has the Commission done? We do not know you about any work, no structural reform, nothing, quite the contrary, Minister! In fact, Mr Minister looks like that player who always fails every time he shoots the ball. [[PS deputy Maria Antónia Almeida Santos' laughs.]] The Minister said that he would reduce the urgency by 3 % and increase them by 4 %; he said that he would reduce the debt of the SNS, he would see it and he increased it. The Minister knows that presence medical consultations in primary health care decreased by 2, 5 million, i.e. less 13, 1 %; minus 13, 2 % corresponds to the number of outpatient surgeries; plus 16 % represents the number of patients enrolled in surgery.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u62	That's not true! Nothing you're saying is true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u63	But as I said, SNS debt did not decrease and only the debt to the pharmaceutical industry increased by EUR 80 million in 2016. Mr. Minister said that in 2016 he was going to set up integrated responsibility centres in hospitals, and now, here, he said it is for 2017. Finally, Minister, Mr. Minister, Mr. Minister, and not in the right position! Don't even put it! You are always talking about the need for vaccination and from 2015 to 2016 we saw that fewer than 1 million people were vaccinated, which represents less than 25%. [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonio Almeida Santos.]] In INEM, as already mentioned here, there are failures and delays in attendance. I said a coordinator who, on some occasions, lost 26 % of the calls, Minister. Chaos theory? Oh, my God! Mr. Minister still accuses us of the theory of chaos? Oh, my God! Tell that to the desperate people who call and try to talk to someone who can help them! What is Mr. Minister doing? When does it actually start to face reality and do something to correct these situations?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u64	Go to the SNS portal!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u65	Finally, Mr Minister, with regard to PPPs, the CFP said that it is necessary to carry out new studies on PPPs, but we have already seen three studies : that of UTAP, that of ERS, that of the Catholic... Mr Minister, will you order another study or will you make your decision on the basis of what I have mentioned? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u66	To reply, Mr. Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u67	Mr President, Mr Luís Vales, I thought that the issue of the fact sheets was summarized at the CDS bench, but apparently even by geographical proximity, he also affected Mr. Mr. Deputies, nothing you said is true. Nothing! I'm going to answer you line by line, and since you like football metaphors, I'm going to use the football metaphor as well. Mr President, first of all there is no reform committee, there are three: hospital health care, primary health care, continuous integrated care. Secondly, honourable Member, do you want to know what they are doing? Go to www.portalsns.gov! Have a look! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u68	You have to answer! You can't refer to the Internet!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u69	Then, the honourable Member comes here to talk about the vaccine and says they did the vaccine less than 1 million Portuguese. Mr President, this year was the year when the vaccination coverage rate was 97 %. It was 97%! Do you know why your number comes from broken sheets? I will explain why: the State, in its allocation and quotas, has bought 1, 2 million vaccines for the users of the National Health Service. The private sector, in the pharmacy, had an allocation of 800 000 vaccines. Mr President, there are only a few more than 50 000 vaccines left at the moment. All right, Member : 50 000 in 2 million! Look at the percentage! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u70	It's too much of a fight!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u71	I don't know where the honourable Member is going to find... it's a lot of fights, in fact, like the honourable Member says, in the vaccine accounts. Let us now turn to the question of activity and then to debt and balance.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u72	But they do not give the 'cards'! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u73	We then share the cards with the honourable Member. Stay calm that we have good chips! Mr Deputy, let us then move on to care: greater number of patients operated from time to time; greater number of hospital consultations from time to time; greater number of patients with primary health care consultations — here, Mr Deputy has also been wrong; greater number of transplants from time to time; greater number of innovative medicines approved — were 51 innovative medicines, Mr Deputy. Mr President, as regards balance and debt, your notes are also out of date. I have already answered the CDS that the 2016 balance will be the best balance ever! It's no better than 2015, it's the best ever! [[P.S.'s applause.]] And then there is a lack of arguments, and when the chips are actually not well written, there is noise all around. But look at that noise doesn't make any difference, because the Portuguese understand the difference between what is done and what is noise, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u74	To reply, Mr Luís Vales has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u75	Mr President, Minister, I think you should send the gentlemen. Members will consult the Internet on the results rather than answering the questions that are raised by this House of the Republic is only to regret. [[PSD applause.]] Mr Minister, I would like to ask you about the orders you gave to hospitals for the contractualization of health care in the SNS for this year. He is always saying that he wants to reduce the costs of emergency workers and the companies that provide these services, as the PSD has also accompanied and that in 2015 it has been proven, because we have indeed reduced the use of these services. But in the orders you gave this year to hospitals, you read on page 32 that hospitals should maintain global costs with remuneration supplements and services. Minister, what are we in? Are you, on the one hand, promising to hire more doctors for the SNS, wanting to reduce the number of precarious workers but at the same time giving orders to maintain the costs with these services, with the private ones? Mr Minister, on page 32, we see that you are ordering staff costs to be reduced by promoting the mobility of health professionals. Do you want to cut the staff, Minister? And how is it that these measures are compatible with remuneration reversals and career progressions? I would like you to explain these measures to us and now to explain to your radical left supporters how it will cut into staff. [[Radical?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u76	In conclusion, Mr. Minister said there are 4000 new health professionals in the SNS. I ask you a very simple question: how many new nurses have you hired? I'm not talking about renewals of contracts or replacements, but, yes, new nurses who entered the system. And how many new doctors have you also entered, Minister? Neither are new placements, but new doctors in the SNS. How many were placed, Minister? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u77	To reply, Mr. Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u78	Mr President, Mr President, first of all my reference to consulting the Internet is only an act of modernity, oriented towards a more 'Simplex' system. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u79	That's not the point!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u80	Believe that I visit and get a lot of information from the Internet. Mr President, I will now answer the direct questions you are asking me. The guidance on pay supplements and services is a set of two headings which should tend to be neutral and what was said to hospitals by ACSS ( Central Health System Administration ) — I noticed that this was the role that Mr had in his hand — it was that, as extraordinary hours are restored to health professionals, hospitals are obliged to stop resorting to services. Therefore, exercise should tend to be neutral, that is what is said and that is the orientation. I know you are. Members have great difficulty, because when we run the risk of having unbalanced accounts, you are euphoric and when we have balanced accounts, you are worried. But they have to organize themselves about what they want. In fact, we have an obligation to have budgetary balance and, therefore, we must manage. And managing is this, Mr. Deputies. With regard to the question of about 4000 professionals and those who were already in the system and how many are new, I will reply, Mr President. [[PSD protests.]] This government was the first that really did a great fight against precariousness, especially for nurses. There were about 1800 nurses who were, many years ago, with term contracts and who went to final contract because they needed services.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u81	New? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u82	New ones are 1800, Mrs. Deputy. [[Protests by PSD MP Angel War.]] Mrs. Member, go see! Always read the updated documents, never read the delayed documents. Finally, Mr President, as far as doctors are concerned, there are inmates of the common year, as you know. These are new. This year 2200 came in, practically.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u83	Practically? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u84	It is the largest number of inmates in the common year who have ever entered, which assures us that medical training for the future is guaranteed and that the capacity of the country to train doctors is guaranteed. Mr. Deputies, they entered the medical SNS that were already here and became medical specialists...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u85	Minister, attention to time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u86	... and also entered many doctors who were outside the system and who requested entry into the SNS, through individual employment contracts, which are certainly two hundred.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u87	May I speak, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u88	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u89	To make an inquiry to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u90	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u91	Mr President, I would ask that a document concerning the terms of reference for health care contracts should be distributed through the Bureau for 2017. It is a government document in which it is written, black and white, exactly the opposite of what Mr. Minister said. It refers to the document that hospitals have to « reduce costs with staff(...) » — and I will not read the rest, not to mass the table, but is perfectly consistent — and, according to point IX, « maintain overall costs with (...) service benefits ». Well, that's not what Mr. Minister said.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u92	Mr President, what you have done was not exactly an appeal to the Bureau on the progress of the work. I assumed that it was to deliver a document, but it was to ask the Minister again, who I cannot now give the floor to, when making a certain reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u93	It was a tactical token...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u94	Mr President, I asked for the document to be distributed.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u95	Mr President, please deliver the document to the Bureau, which will be distributed. Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, why does António Arnaut consider privates a danger to the National Health Service? It is that the privates grow at the expense of the National Health Service. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u97	It's because the privates steal the doctors from the National Health Service, they're going to look for the inmates who are trained in the National Health Service. Privates benefit when the National Health Service degrades and therefore want the National Health Service to degrade. And will the state continue to fund private groups? Oh, my God! The Mello Group depends, by 40 %, on PPPs,... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u98	... the Health Light Group depends on 25 % of PPPs. Will the State continue to finance the private groups that after they want to degrade the National Health Service? Oh, my God! It doesn't make sense for those who defend the National Health Service. [[Congratulations from BE.]] It is a matter of principle, because private management is concerned about profit and public management is concerned about users. But it is also a matter of ensuring the best conditions for access to users. PPP hospitals forward patients who consider more expensive to other hospitals; public hospitals care for everyone. PPP hospitals maintain disputes with the state, because they do not want to dispense HIV medicines (human immunodeficiency virus) or multiple sclerosis, because they are expensive, but public hospitals provide these medicines to those who need them. And it is essentially a question of quality of service. Mr Minister recently referred to health benchmarking, where the indicators can be seen. We see the indicators of care such as the consultations carried out in time, the surgeries performed within time, the percentages of reintegration, to postoperative sepsis: the public management hospitals are all better, in these indicators, than the PPP hospitals. When is it, why continue PPP hospitals if they do not guarantee any advantage? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u99	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u100	Mr President, Mr Moisés Ferreira, I would say, as I did in my first speech, that the political reasons which you bring are absolutely respectable from the point of view of political appreciation. But the honourable Member will have to understand that the PS, in its electoral programme and in the Government programme, has made a commitment with the Portuguese. And the commitment is this: to test whether the solution is good or not, by performing the contest, according to the recommendation of UTAP (technical project monitoring unit). If, at the end of that time, I have had the opportunity to explain what appears to be worse for the public interest, the State and the Government are under no circumstances obliged to deliver this hospital to that private entity. Mr President, I would also like to say that we all have a great deal of respect for Dr. António Arnaut in this House, particularly for the friendship and the reasons for my political connection with him. But there is one thing we cannot also do, on behalf of the public interest, that is to diabolize the role of private actors in the health sector. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u101	In particular, for example, the question of medicines, the question of pharmacies. They are private agents and we don't go through the head to nationalize the pharmacy or nationalize the pharmaceutical companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[We don't know!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u102	Don't give me any ideas!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u103	The honourable Member is right about the issue of regulation. In the provision regulation we must be much more demanding. And we know well that, at some points in the country, over 40 years ago, the conventional sector has played a useful role in protecting the health of Portuguese people, because the National Health Service would not have — or had — conditions to reach all points in the country. There are questions of principle on this subject, there are programmatic questions and there are technical questions. We will continue this debate by listening to your arguments but, above all, by deepening the technical matter, which I think is important to deepen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u104	You have the floor to reply, Mr. Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u105	Mr President, Minister, we are talking about the management of public hospitals inserted into the National Health Service. We're not really talking about aspirin production. It therefore seems to us that we should consider this aspect of focusing on public management. The management of hospitals included in the National Health Service must be public. [[Protests from PSD MP Miguel Santos.]] I have not only talked about political reasons, I have talked about assistance indicators, for example. The Minister said that the Government's programme contained the market test. the Government's programme included evaluation of public-private partnerships and not market testing. Now, we consider that the evaluation of public-private partnerships for the management of hospitals included in the National Health Service is made, for example, in the study of the Regulatory Health Entity ( ERS ), which says that there are no significant differences between private management and public management.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u106	Which one? Oh, my God! The Catholic's can't stand it! [[CDS-PP protests.]] Therefore, the evaluation was made, why the insistence on maintaining PPPs in health? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u107	To reply, Mr. Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u108	Mr President, Mr President, I would just like to reaffirm that the arguments you make are absolutely reasonable and politically understandable. And we are available to deepen this debate, not only at the political level but also at the technical level. It would therefore be welcome if we could work on the study that UTAP has done — and eventually extend it to another evaluation perimeter — and continue this debate, not closing it in positions that can, either on the government side or on the side of the Left Block, lie in an obstinacy that does not lead us to reasonable. In the end, surely the most sensible and reasonable arguments will prevail. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u109	For a new question, you have the floor of Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u110	Mr President, Minister, I would like to reassure you, because we do not have chips, we go to the ground and it is with that accumulated knowledge that we answer you. So you can be sure that we don't have chips consultants here. [[CDS-PP applause.]] I would like to reiterate, in some way, what I have already told you, because I believe it is important to reiterate some aspects of health management. Responsible management is obviously concerned about people and professionals, and it is also concerned about debt. It is not a socialist style of governance, which leaves debt to others to pay. Debt compromises the performance, Mr, and you know that. You know that debt compromises the benefit, that debt captures the SNS. What I wanted to ask the Minister — if he could hear me — was to answer the question I put to him because he did not deny what he said about the increase in the debt of 27 million per month in the SNS. This is factual. The Minister spoke of budgetary implementation but did not respond. Now I would also like to ask you the following: with this well-known budget implementation, where did you cut off the debt we know? Was it about investments in hospitals? Was it the increase in captivating? Mr Minister, there have been cuts, you cannot perform miracles in terms of budgetary implementation. Answer my debt question, please. in this measure, regarding the issue of PPPs — and it is clear to us that the first value in this discussion is that of the guarantor of the public interest and that of the good provision of health care to the Portuguese, without any kind of ideological prejudice that ignores what is contained in our Constitution on this matter — I would like to reiterate, because the truth has to be clear and comprehensive, and not partial, that the evidence we have, with studies such as the Catholic University, the UTAP, is that, effectively, PPPs, being even more scrutinyd than public management hospitals – is good to say — with more indicators that are not subject to public management assessment, save money to taxpayers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u111	They also save in the care they provide!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u112	In addition to saving money to taxpayers, the indicators show that they are better attended. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you again whether or not the management should be reviewed or not and whether it should not be maximized if it is made with these hospitals that are able to contribute to the reduction of waiting lists in complementary diagnostic examinations and, I insist, are hospitals of the National Health Service. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u113	To reply, Mr. Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u114	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Garriza Neto, I am sure you know the sympathy I have for you and, therefore, that you have taken the comment on the tokens as a prerogative of the parliamentary rhetoric and I think it is a good image because it has touched on the right point of your reaction. With regard to the issue of debt, Mrs Deputy, I shall answer with all clarity. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u115	PSD has a debt but it's with Portuguese health!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u116	Madam Member, we will end the year according to what I said in the various interventions in the Health Committee, with a stock of debt and average payment deadlines that are in line with what we found in 2015. On the other hand, Mrs Deputies, we will end the year with the best budget implementation balance ever. [[CDS-PP protests.]] I know that the honourable Member is a woman of faith and takes this into account of a miracle, but there is no miracle here! There is budgetary execution and rigour and social justice. I'm going to answer the question of where I went to get the money.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u117	I'm not paying!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u118	No, sir, because if the debt is as it was last year, we don't pay as much as VV. Ex. They didn't pay. It's exactly the same! [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Isabel Galriza Neto.]] What I would like to say is that when the account comes you will see the performance of consumables, the acquisition of goods and services, you will see the evolution of the expenditure of the ESF (foreign supplies and services) and, therefore, you will see that indeed the balanced budget execution is that of a government that has achieved the best deficit for 40 years for Portugal, which can make the economy grow and the employment to increase, probably that government which, for a few years, will have in mind, leaving its obsession with bankruptcy and the harmful management to the interests of the country. [[CDS protests.]] I know that this kind of outcome bothers you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u119	For a reply, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u120	Mr President, Minister, I was listening - and thinking that the Portuguese who might be following this debate - and I have already told Mr. Moses Ferreira weeks ago - in fact, they have the idea that there is no problem and that everything is fantastic. I mean the Portuguese people who are in hospitals where there are no consumables to guarantee certain types of care, where there are no sheets, where nurses were taken to exhaustion with thousands of extraordinary hours that are to be returned,... [[PCP protests.]] ... moreover, the same professionals, or some of them, at least, who, being so happy with this governance, announce strikes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u121	We're still gonna have the CDS-PP on the strike pickets!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u122	Mr Minister, on behalf of the Portuguese people who are listening to us, and if it is not, in fact, due to the duty of reply to the Members, you will have to clarify why these problems are happening. I would like to say again that, in fact, with regard to 35 hours, and with this end, we will insist that everything is not right, as, in fact, acknowledged by the Bastonary of the Medical Order itself, in very courageous statements, warning that, in the name of the replacement of individual rights, we do not discuss legitimacy, but that, we insist, they must be harmonized with the common good, they have harmed investment, acquisitions and availability of materials. Therefore, the clinical benefit is compromised, that you cannot deny, and you have a few more minutes to clarify the Portuguese about what they find every day and which does not correspond to the scenario that you have drawn here. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u123	Mr. Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u124	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, I must sincerely tell you that I am not surprised at your speeches. I'll explain why. On the exercise of permanent contradiction that the CDS has in relation to 35 hours a week: first, it was going to put an end to the health system and the SNS ; second, it is a problem, because nurses are exhausted and in burnout; then, it would damage the accounts; after all, it is already the replacement of a constitutional right that had been subtracted through external intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u125	It's CDS coherence! [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u126	Finally, Mrs. Member, about 35 hours... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Isabel Galriza Neto.]] I shall repeat, Mrs Deputy, it is EUR 19 million! The entry of more than 4000 new professionals is allowing hospitals to gradually regularize the so-called "hours bag" and which he referred to in a framework of work and respect for the work of health professionals, as never before. Next, the honourable Member is talking about the lack of material and consumables.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u127	Yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u128	Madam Member, I would like to thank you for bringing my office to a list, because it was not any member of this government who went to court for urgent services, seeing patients in monkeys, saying that what you saw were very well-installed people in the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] He wasn't a member of this government!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u129	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u130	Moreover, members of this government are concerned to ensure that patients are bedridden and that their rights are respected. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I think that everything is worth the debate and parliamentary rhetoric, but it is not worth making generalizations and abstractions about a reality that does not exist. We never said SNS was okay. It's very bad, but it's better than you left it in 2015! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u131	Mr João Ramos of the CFP has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Health, would like to start by saying again that the CFP rejects PPPs in health because they harm users and health care, to serve the profit objectives of the large economic groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u133	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u134	With regard to the private sector, I would like to say to you, Minister, that you cannot put in the same bag a small neighborhood pharmacy and a PPP with a hospital run by a large economic group, in which this hospital is just another means of accumulation of wealth, among others.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u135	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u136	By the way, I would like to say that, in terms of debts, something will hardly beat the debts of the PSD and the CDS to the health of the Portuguese. [[Protests by PSD MP Angel War.]] In the area of problems, the involvement of professionals is fundamental to solving the problems of the National Health Service. The Minister has already spoken here about the increase in the number of professionals and this happens after the National Health Service has reached only 123 000 professionals with the PSD and CDS Government. It is necessary to continue to strengthen this number, but there are still serious problems such as those that occur, for example, at the Algarve Hospital Center, at the Tres-os-Montes and Alto Douro Hospital Center, where there are difficulties in ensuring quality health care, or at the West Hospital Center, where there are problems of precariousness. Health professionals must be valued — the Minister has already made that reference. Better links are needed, more conditions are needed for professionals to be valued professionally and in careers, and there is a need to combat precariously. Temporary workers are a means of achieving this precariousness, but it exists at various levels. I would like to refer to certain professional categories of problems in particular. For example, nurses need to find ways to promote the possibility of career progression, to value wages by adapting them to training levels and by uniformizing wages in primary health care. 35 hours must be applied to all nurses. Psychologists are prevented from progressing in their careers and have been in the category of trainees for many years, in addition to being prevented from having mobility between services. With regard to diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, it is necessary to carry out the creation of their careers because their struggle has shown that these professionals are essential for the functioning of the National Health Service. As for professional assistants, the end of specific careers in Public Administration and the reduced number of operational assistants poses problems. Some services do not function or have difficulties in their operation due to the lack of operational assistants and, at the level of the prerequisites for the placement of operational assistants, nothing prevents the problem from being solved. In relation to doctors, despite the entries that have been made, it is essential to internalize these professionals. Mr Minister, what I would like to ask you is whether these problems are identified and what measures will be taken to resolve them. Regarding the replacement of quality hours, it is important to say that they are an important instrument of professional valorization and therefore it is important that they are for all professionals and for all services. How do you intend to value careers? These are the questions I would like to ask you. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u137	To reply, Mr. Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u138	Mr. President, Mr. João Ramos, before answering the specific question posed on professional careers in health, I would like to take advantage to tell you that the effort that has been made over the past year to strengthen the National Health Service is well illustrated by closing 2016 with the largest number of USF (family health unit) Type A and B always, with the largest number of family doctors in Portugal and with the lowest number of Portuguese without a family doctor. Comparing 2016 with 2014, half the number of Portuguese without a family doctor passed. We are also working, particularly with the Order of Nurses, to qualify and value the career as a family nurse. We consider them to be of the greatest importance within the family health team. The office of Mr. Secretary of State for Health has been working with the different forces representatives of the workers, notably with the unions, in different areas, such as psychologists, hospital pharmacists, TDT (technical diagnosis and therapy), so that, during 2017, the work to be done, in a framework of budgetary responsibility, is guaranteed and assured. Mr. João Ramos, with today's news that more than 300 beds of the ongoing mental health care network will be opened... [[PSD laughter.]] ... we stay with about 1000 new care beds continued in Portugal. [[PSD protests.]] It's the biggest number ever. We have also launched the palliative care network, particularly the paediatric palliative care network. Mr. Deputies, we are well aware of the human capital needs still of human value within the National Health Service. We have a trajectory that we will disciplinely carry out throughout the legislature, in a framework of budgetary responsibility, by allowing people to invest in what is the result of the budget implementation of the SNS itself and of the growth of the economy itself. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u139	Mr. João Ramos has the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u140	Mr President, Minister, I would like to reaffirm that quality hours should be for all professionals, and Mr Minister did not make that reference. In terms of oral and visual health, the examples are positive, but it is necessary to know whether there is hiring professionals, for example, optometrists. Mr Minister, I would like to say to you, in conclusion, that the State budget already contains measures that enable the Government to work on some of these matters, for example, in the recruitment of workers, in the fight against precariousness and the progressive replacement of temporary workers by workers with rights and in the extension of training vacancies in specialized doctors. They are precise subjects and there are instruments that allow them to be addressed in the framework of the State budget, so the government must realize these possibilities. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u141	In reply, Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u142	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are well aware of the space that the State budget has opened for us. That is why I reaffirm that the office of Mr. Secretary of State has been, being a competence of him, to work with the unions, on the different fronts of work, in the discussion of the framework of careers and also in the projection of their revalorization, so that there are budgetary conditions to achieve it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u143	Mrs Marisabel Moutela of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u144	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members, there seems to be no doubt that the Ministry of Health has strengthened the human resources capacity of the National Health Service by making the highest ever hiring of health professionals. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I repeat to the radical right: making the highest hiring of always health professionals. [[CDS-PP protests.]] It is the counterpoint to the "radical left"! This contract was cross-sectional to primary and hospital care and also reached the medical emergency with the realization of the hiring of 100 nurses for INEM, where the special career of pre-hospital emergency technicians was also created. In carrying out this unprecedented contract, Mr. Minister, he was able to decisively reverse the dehumanization of health care to which Portuguese were voted during the last government. In the front line of humanization of health care there is no doubt that the nurses are, and yet Mrs. Depute of the CDS here called them to breakfast, because this was perhaps the professional class of the health area that was most ill-treated by your government. Speaking in the exhaustion of nurses, I would like to recall a visit by your then Minister of Health, who, at the Hospital de Braga, faced with the exhaustion of the ladies. Nurses because of the shift from 35 hours to 40 hours per week of work, justified this exhaustion by saying that the problem of Mr. Nurses is that, after fulfilling their working hours in the National Health Service, they would all perform other functions in private. I remember until the gentlemen. Nurses, at this time, called Mr. Minister of Health from then intellectually dishonest in this comment. I also want to remind you here of a conference in Germany on the health economy, in which your then Minister literally sold nurses, considering them a good export product. That's what actually happened. Between 2011 and 2015, more than 14 000 nurses emigrated and went out of the country looking for work in the provision of health care, when there was a lot of lack here and, worse than that, we threw out the investment that the country had made in its formation. Your brand, Minister of Health, is because it has been able to stop this bleeding from emigration at the level of these professionals, because in one year it was able to reverse the immigration of nurses by 50%, and it is with great satisfaction that the PS registers that many of these nurses, in 2016, began to return to their country. The mercantilist view of health is reversed. The concern now is with patients and with the work of health professionals, because they are the great support of care and humanization in health. Mr Minister, it seems that at the health level, with the numbers he presented here, after all the devil was not released and the announced apocalypse did not happen. My colleagues from the PSD and the CDS and even Mrs Bastonária from the Order of Nurses can be calmed: we have a Ministry of Health which has demonstrated that it is concerned about the safety and care of patients and truly knows the importance of health professionals and what they represent in the provision of care and in the humanization of services. Mr Minister, we also know and the Socialist Party knows that there is still much to do. What I wanted to know is whether it will continue to strengthen human resources and give particular attention to what is happening in the northern part of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u145	To reply, Mr. Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u146	Mr President, Mrs Marisabel Moutela, I begin by answering her last question on the importance that we attach not only to the interior of the country but to hospital units which, being close to the big cities, have difficulties recruiting doctors in particular. And I speak, for example, of the Hospital Center of the West, Setúbal and Barreiro-Montijo. It's not often just the inside. On the one hand, we believe that the establishment of integrated responsibility centres, which are provided for in the new decree of hospital management, associated with the new incentive scheme and also the strengthening of the hiring of nurses, may begin to pave the way in the coming year to consolidate a qualified offer in the most deprived regions of the country. Mrs Deputy, I would also like to leave you a note on what I said about the human capital and people of the SNS. One thing I can assure you, on my behalf and on behalf of the Ministry of Health: there will never be any respect for the problems of the Portuguese people on this issue, nor will there be sordidness or lack of humility. We don't speak either in oasis, or in stories of success that are fictional. We understand and know the country and the Portuguese, enough to know that almost everything is to be done and the way is done with humility, with the recognition that it is necessary to go further, but also with well-founded feet on earth. We well know what the appreciative fashion of our opponents is, that competence resides only on the right side of Parliament and on the left side lies the incompetence; that the ability to manage with rigor and budgetary intelligence is a kind of acquis, of genetic condition of the parties on the right and who integrates a left government is clearly, by definition, a wastemaker, a bad manager and an irresponsible one. I think that's enough. I think it comes, as in 2016 we have actually ended this story. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Hélder Amaral.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u147	For a question, you have the floor of Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa, PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u148	Mr. President, Mr. Minister announced the construction of a new hospital in Évora, a new hospital in Seixal, a new hospital in Lisboa Oriental, a medium hospital in Madeira, a new hospital in Sintra and a new maternity hospital in Coimbra. Mr Minister, how much does the Government expect to spend in 2017 on three of these six hospitals? Twenty-five million euros, i.e. 3 % of total construction value. Mr Minister, there seem to be announcements and hospitals for less money, but it also means that these options will have to be prioritized. The first question I want to ask you is very simple: when will the construction of these six new hospitals advance? I don't ask for the day, not the month, but the year. We do not currently discuss the timing and priorities, but the Portuguese have the right to know when each of these works will begin. Mr Minister, allow me, however, to make an express reference to the Madeira hospital, where I was elected. When will the process of cooperation with the Regional Government be initiated for the approval of funding, since the Regional Government, as you know, has requested this process and wants the international public competition for its construction to be started this year? Mr Minister, or you explain here in this House what is the timing of the construction of these new hospitals, or these announcements are to deceive us and can happen as happened with the Algarve Hospital, where the last Socialist Government spent more than €50,000 on the first stone launch ceremony and the construction continues to be postponed sine die. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u149	To reply, Mr. Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u150	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are going to have you brought in. Ladies and gentlemen and the parliamentary groups the timetable, because so the honourable Member is calmer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u151	You can put it on the Internet!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u152	We can also put on the Internet, Mrs. Deputy! With regard to the timing, I begin by talking about the greatest equipment, particularly that of Eastern Lisbon. As you know, it is a process that is quite ahead—in fact, in the previous government the process has been practically completed—and we are now in a working group together with the Ministry of Finance, preparing the financing model. The idea that is present is to launch the international public contest for the project yet this year. In the case of Sixal and Sintra hospitals, these are small equipment, therefore between the project and construction will be completed in 2019 and 2020. The hospital in Évora will be completed a little later. The project is completed, as is your knowledge, and the forecast of opening and completion of the work is 2021. With regard to Madeira's hospital, which the honourable Member has just mentioned, it is a matter which, as you know, does not primarily concern the Ministry of Health, is a matter between the Government of the Republic and the Regional Government. It will naturally be in this context between the two governments, which will have to be defined the timetables and the models of intervention, and that is certainly what we are doing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u153	To reply, you have the floor again to Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u154	Mr President, Minister, I thank you for your answer to my questions. Let us now wait to see what the value of your word is. Let's hope it's worth more than the word given and honored by your bench, which looks like it's not what it was anymore. The Minister spoke of modernising the debate and also spoke of mere intentions. The announcements in Madeira are like those in the poster I show you here : « Promises and guarantees the full guarantee of funding», and then speaks of 50% funding for the new hospital. It is ensured that the money is available for the new hospital and then, in fact, the State budget does not confer a single euro for this hospital which the Minister has now referred to as one of its priorities. Let us see if this will no longer be a given, unhonored promise, and we will certainly be here to understand when the international public competition for this work, which is priority for Madeira, will be launched. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u155	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u156	Mr President, thank you very much for the happy idea of bringing a pretty, very colorful image and recalling, in fact, an important commitment to the region. I believe that the dialogue that exists between the Government of the Republic and the Regional Government will surely enforce the letter that the honourable Member has tabled. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u157	To ask a question, I now give the floor to Mr Jorge Falcato of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u158	Mr President, Minister of Health, when it was defined by office in September last year that from 1 November 2016 some current consumer support products would again be supplied or reimbursed in health centres, people with disabilities breathed relief. I would finish the calvary of the procedures instructed in social security which the previous government had imposed. Mr. Minister, it seems the calvary is not over. The one which would be a simplification measure in the allocation of these support products has not yet simplified anything. There are health centres that do not even know how to award and finance, even with separate procedures between health centres. According to a circular of the ACSS ( Central Health System Administration ), the reimbursement process is carried out in the same forms of the procedure as previously provided by the Social Security Institute, i.e. users continue to have three budgets to be entitled, for example, to algae. According to the said circular of ACSS, the applicant shall be informed by office up to 15 days after the delivery of the proceedings on its refusal or referral. I have no knowledge of any health centre where this deadline has been met. Mr Minister, when we discussed the need to simplify the allocation of these support products, the conclusion we came to was that the products would be allocated directly by health centres or, in cases where stocks in health centres would not be justified, would be prescribed electronically and dispensed in pharmacy. Mr Minister, when is this really simplified form of allocation of these products a reality? I would also like the Minister to comment on the fact that there are family doctors who refuse to fill out the form SAPA ( Support Product Allocation System ), which is indispensable for any allocation of support products because they think it is a very extensive form. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u159	Mr. Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u160	Mr President, I beg your pardon to be Mr Under-Secretary of State and Health to answer this specific question because he has been accompanying this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u161	Of course. Mr. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the issue that you have brought up is important. Support for the most vulnerable patients is an obligation of the State and must be done in a simple and effective way, in order to put an end to the calvary that Mr has presented and that is true. I must also tell you that at this time of transition between the two ministries we have been trying to ensure that this transition is made in a simple, standardized way at national level and, therefore, we have been giving clear guidance so that the process is neither complicated nor delayed. The good news is that the computer application SAPA, which many problems brought to health professionals and users, will end on March 1 and we will finally have a process that for us will certainly be safer, more effective and, for patients, more accessible to these health care, fundamental to these patients. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u163	For one question, I now have the floor of Mr John Gouveia of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u164	Mr President, Minister of Health, Secretary of State, Dear colleagues, Mr Minister, I will make a brief frame, followed by a request for clarification. Mr. Minister, according to statements by V. Exa, 2016 also represented a year of turn for the National Health Service, even considering that the health policies adopted strengthened equity in access and ensured access to proximity care with greater quality and efficiency. The Minister has also pointed out a range of illustrative examples of this same, such as, among others, the evolution of the number of medical and nursing consultations, the largest since 2011 ; the expansion, at an unprecedented pace, of the network of family health units (USF ) and the allocation of family physicians to Portuguese; also the integration of new responses in the health care of proximity in the areas of oral health, visual health, psychology and nutrition and an increase in the number of vacancies in all types of continuing care networks. Mr. Minister, for 2017, in accordance with the Government Programme and in accordance with the Great Plan Options and approved State Budget, health policies will continue to pursue the objectives under way with a new ambition for public health. Therefore, Minister, the clarification requested is as follows: with the possible quantitative and/or geographic-territorial specialization, which is the planned evolution, either in the expansion and improvement of the network of coverage of proximity care in the areas of oral health, visual health, psychology and nutrition, or in the strengthening and development of the integration of the continuing care network? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u165	You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u166	Mr President, Mr John Gouveia, thank you very much for your questions. I respond with great satisfaction because I believe that in 2017 we have reasons to strengthen our confidence in the SNS. I'm starting with structural aspects. We are carrying out the greatest wave of construction and rehabilitation of health centres forever—at this moment, 65 health centres, at the level of the entire territory. We will continue to create new family health units. Let's open up 700 more integrated continuous care beds. And, at hospital level, we will have the largest investment in Algarve, of about 19 million euros, to rehabilitate the hospitals of Faro and Portimão, we will have the launch of the central hospital of Alentejo, we will have, as I said, all the restructuring of the region of Lisbon and Vale do Tejo not only with infrastructure but also technological equipment, we will also have the launch, in the north region, and the implementation, still announced today, of the pediatric wing of the Hospital of São João, in fact, a problem of enormous complexity that had been dragged a number of years ago, with legal issues and economic and financial issues. We will therefore continue to invest in people, in the qualification of professionals and careers and, as time passes and budgetary security is enabling, modernizing and rejuvenating the technological park and the infrastructure park. That is the right way, Mr President. The right way is not to come to collect what has been done, which is what the opposition members are trying to do, is to come to talk about what was actually done, implemented, and of the resumption of a trajectory that was interrupted in 2011 and which led the National Health Service to the minimum condition. Today, SNS is no longer the minimum SNS; it is a SNS that is in recovery and growth. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u167	You now have the floor for a question, Mrs Fatima Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u168	Mr President, Minister, returning to the document sent by the Government, I recall that the same says that hospitals have to comply with the law of commitments and late payments. Now, this is a decision with which the PSD has always agreed, until the PSD is from those parties that you think, when you owe it, it should be paid. However, the Socialist Party has always been against the existence of this law. I remember the Socialist Party saying that it was a bad law, that it was hindering and paralyzing the action of the Public Administration. However, I also recall that Mr. Minister, when he was in front of the Cascais PPP, said that he had to be used with intelligence. But then we came to the conclusion that, after all, the law was good, the law did not interfere, the law helped to solve the problems, because otherwise you, in the time you have of government, would have already solved the matter. Which means the Socialist Party and the extreme left now likes the law. Another question that you have just explained has to do with the following: you are forecasting a reduction in staff costs, but last year you have increased it by 5 %. What are you gonna do? How are you going to decrease them? Is it going to make the service delivery worse? Mr Minister, the previous government, because it faced lobbies and had courage, managed, as you know, to reduce the average selling price of medicines by 27 %. In the case of generics, it decreased by 53 %. This was good for the National Health Service and it was good for people who thus pay less for drugs. And it was also able to move the generic quota from 31 % in 2010 to 47 % from 2015. And what do we have now, Minister? You achieved only a change of 0, 35 percentage points, i.e. the quota increased from 47 % to 47 %, 35 %. What does that mean?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u169	What an increase in quota!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u170	Can't face the lobbies? Don't you still bet on generics? What's going on, Minister? I want to ask you another question. You said in March last year that you would reach a 60 % quota. Do you keep this commitment? Mr. Minister is indeed a man of hope. Last year, he told us that he was going to create 328 mental health places. Today, I told you that's gonna be just next year. So, Minister, this means you're protecting, you're dragging. I'd like you to tell us if you really are going to create them this year. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u171	You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u172	Mr President, Mrs Fatima Ramos, I don't think you've noticed or I haven't explained well enough about the continuing mental health care beds. The year ended 19 days ago. Of course we would have preferred it to be in December, but it is today, Mrs. Deputy! I therefore believe that we are clear on this matter. [[PSD protests.]] On the question of lobbies, Mrs Deputies, it is clear that the government's obligation is to counter what is the corporate mispractice of the interests installed, which generate waste, fraud and inefficiency. Madam Member, let me ask you a direct question. Shortly after I took possession, I said, in a sincere, laudable tone, that Minister Paulo Macedo had for the first time created an internal structure in the Ministry of Health which has truly become effective, effective, in improving internal control and in preventing and combating fraud. It's true! And you know what, Mrs. Member? I took advantage of it -a, I deepened it and developed it -and today, in 2016, we have better results, more investigations, more people arrested for bad practices in relation to uses that are incorrect in the use of public money. And we're going to continue with all our energy, because if there's something we're not afraid of, Mrs. Member, it's lobbies, you can be sure you don't. Finally, I am replying to the questions of generics and the law of commitments. Regarding the question of generics, Mrs Deputies, we were happy to also end the year with a progression in the market share of generic medicines and with the continuation of the decrease in the average cost of generic medicines. Unfortunately, in order for it to increase faster, we need more molecules to lose the patent and more molecules to be passed on to the generic regime. But, as you know, we have established an agreement with the National Pharmacy Association and the Association of Pharmacys of Portugal so that there is a system of incentives that will also make in the pharmacy, in addition to the intervention of the doctor, which is decisive in the prescription, if confidence with the patient is increased and that in the pharmacy is also the pharmacist an active agent for dispensation of a more generic medicine. We have this objective, we will fight for it until the end of the Parliament, for a quota of at least 60 %, Mrs. Madam Member, as far as the law of commitments is concerned, I note that you have read and repeated what I have said. In fact, it's a pleasure to hear the gentlemen. PSD Members read and repeat the things I say, because, in fact, despite everything, there is an inner sense of coherence, and it is good. Madam Member, the law of commitments, as I said at that time that you referred to, is a law of the Republic and, like all the laws of the Republic, must be met with rigour, intelligence and good sense. And he's being. And this is an opportunity for the system to be more controlled, more efficient and more secure. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u173	You have the floor for a reply, Mrs Fatima Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u174	Mr President, Minister, I just wanted to say two things. Firstly, concern about health is a reality on the part of the PSD, as well as all the effort made by the PSD when it was in government to leave it a better heritage than that for which you are currently working. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u175	And you know what your problem is, Minister? It's just that the National Health Service needs to be sustainable. There is a set of factors that lead to more spending: an older population and some innovation. But we need to have a country that produces more, that creates more wealth, that manages income, so that you can invest in this National Health Service that you need so much. And what happens, Mr Minister, is this: the result of many incongruences from the extreme left and the Socialist Party which, at the moment, is in the extreme left, this country today has less confidence, invests less — that is what happened in the National Health Service and throughout the country — GDP grows less, creates less wealth. And there is no wealth, Minister, as you know, you can promise many dreams, but, at the end of the year, investment is smaller and people are worse. And indeed, Minister, what we want is that you reverse that kind of speech,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u176	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u177	... make a realistic management, turned to what actually exists and what the people need, which is to manage with responsibility and trust. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u178	To reply, Mr. Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u179	Mr President, Mrs Fatima Ramos, I did not understand any part of your intervention. And I'll explain why. First, with regard to investing in more innovation, Mrs Deputy, this is the Government and the Ministry that most innovative medicines have approved since there is memory in Portugal — and quality innovation means access to the medicine. Then, Mrs Deputy, in fact, like other Members. Ladies and gentlemen, let's say we're going to cut human and personal resources. Madam Member, have you seen the Bureau of the State Budget? He saw them, of course, because he read them. The State budget — and I am not commenting on an internal document guiding the ACSS ( Central Health System Administration ) — obliges the government to stand before the honourable Members. Members, and there is no reduction in expenditure on human resources, you are not, Mrs Deputy. [[PSD protests.]] Finally, let me make a final reflection on this attempt, a little, I understand, disturbingly, of trying to see the fog, when the fog dissipates. Mrs Deputies, this Government has not only presented the best budget deficit since it has always recovered and gained international confidence, credit to international agents and Brussels, and also the confidence of Portuguese – and that is why all the indicators point out – in addition to starting to create jobs and even, well, two days ago, it has recovered from interest rates historically at negative levels, which must have been appreciated. Therefore, Mrs. Member, I believe that weighting and some tranquility in the observation of the trajectory are very recommended, because anxiety, as I say to you, is never a good friend of good decisions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u180	For a new question, Mr John Vasconcelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u181	Mr President, Minister, last December, some directors of the Algarve Hospital Centre presented their resignation, alleging various difficulties for structural problems, at the level of health, in this hospital, and also referring that there has been a gradual deterioration of health conditions in this centre. And they're right about these health officials. And those who suffer are the users, the populations. But listening to the PSD here, it is appropriate to say that a penalty, they try to clear the responsibilities they had in the past, at the level of the National Health Service, that the country suffered, and, in particular, the Algarve, with the creation of the Hospital Center of the Algarve. It is that during four years of governance, they cut 4000 jobs at health level and EUR 5000 million, which went beyond the agreement with the troika. Mr Minister, in fact, this Government has already taken some measures, but they are still insufficient measures, we need to have more courage, we need to go a little further. Mr Minister recently referred to some investments in this area. In fact, a short time ago the Algarve Regional Health Administration said that I was going to present a study to Mr. Minister to reverse the situation, to separate the hospitals from the Algarve. We all know that the degradation of these Algarve hospitals started exactly with the creation of this Center, leading to the postponement and the lack of surgeries, to the serious lack of technicians, etc.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u182	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u183	Minister of Health, what do you have to answer to this? Is there such a study? Are you going to reverse the situation? What concrete measures do you have to deal with, to solve health problems in this Hospital Center? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u184	The Minister of Health has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u185	Mr President, Mr. João Vasconcelos, I can no longer agree with you about what might have been one of the biggest mistakes in the country's hospital organization. [[The PSD member Miguel Santos' laughs.]] The creation of the Algarve Hospital Center was a mistake.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u186	Well? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u187	When we arrived at the government in November 2015, we said in this House that we would appoint a management team and that we would give a year...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u188	Ah...!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u189	The honourable Member remembers. At the time, we said that we would give this management team a year to prove whether the problem was the model, the management team or both. Mr. João Vasconcelos is absolutely right. in a region that is longitudinal and non-circumferential, where hospital points are 80 km away, putting professionals to make authentic pools resulted in the fall to half—it is not 10 %, Mr. Deputy, it is half, the numbers are on the SNS portal and I recommend that you read them — of the number of surgeries performed between 2011 and 2015. It was a real mess. Therefore, Mr President, what I can assure you is that at this very moment we are finalizing a political decision on what we are going to do. Regardless of this decision, one thing is certain and is given as acquired: the Barlavonto will have to have clinical autonomy, functional autonomy and will have to respond to a region that once a year sees its population triple. That is why making a Center with these characteristics in a region of the country which is an engine for the economy and which once a year sees its population triple, betting, as was done by the previous management team, this absolutely surprising idea that we need to focus on the urgency and release the activity programmed for the private sector, gave the result that it gave. There is a terrible result of the combination between public and private in the Algarve. I am therefore counting on presenting a final resolution by the end of the first quarter that will allow us to finally put the Algarve on the path of development in terms of the SNS in 2017. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] But still, Mr. Member, we have already achieved more human resources this year, more doctors, more nurses, more USF (family health units). Mr President, this year we were able to reopen the Regional Delegation of the INEM Algarve and EUR 19 million allocated to the Hospital Centre to launch an emerging investment programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u190	Mr Domingos Pereira of the PS now has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u191	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Minister of Health, PSD and CDS, still in a coalition government logic, have had a systematic concern about attacks on the health sector, particularly in the person of the Minister. All year 2016 was marked by his wish that everything would go wrong, that everything would be a catastrophe, but all the known results contradict such desires. After all, they said that the procession was still on the dock, but the procession made its way, went well and gave great incentive for the health sector, particularly the National Health Service, to continue in this policy of investment and innovation at the service of its users. Despite the strong investment in infrastructure for new health centres, planned in a total of 67 for the country's five ARS(regional health administrations), as well as the construction of six new hospitals, which translates the largest investment already made and to be carried out, there is another type of investment that, although smaller, has a very important significance. I am referring to the investment in the acquisition of new equipment in the area of complementary means of diagnosis and therapy. For example, in the area of imaging, such as X-ray, ultrasound, TAC (computed axial tomography), magnetic resonance imaging, among others, has been replaced obsolete technology, such as the use of films for digitization, by network operation, with real-time access. This investment has a double interest, because it achieves better financial results by reducing expenditure and motivates service providers. Access to consultation and use of complementary diagnostic tests at the same time is a factor of greater multidisciplinary synergies and resource optimization and, as I said, of greater motivation for professionals. I therefore ask the Minister of Health whether he will continue to see investment in this area, which is very important. Finally, I would also like to ask the Minister — since this is a place of privilege to be informed, we and the country — if you can tell us anything about the marketing and plasma use policy, a problem that has been so much talked about in the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u192	The Minister of Health has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u193	Mr President, Mr Domingos Pereira, I begin by thanking you for the question you have raised. Of course, betting on dematerialization of processes is a firm bet, to the extent that it makes work more efficient, professional activity itself, but competes a lot for economic and financial efficiency. I give you an example: when we arrived at the government, the paperless revenue represented little more than 3 % in the SNS and today is 97%. Let us now publish legislation that makes migration for the private sector imperative for the dematerialization of electronic revenue. But we will also launch, in the first quarter, the mandatory dematerialization of complementary means of diagnosis and therapy, because in this area, Mr Deputies, the country really loses millions of euros per year, and it is not for fraud, it is not even for malpractice, it is for ignorance. Many of the citizens repeat exams, analyses, X-rays, ultrasounds, in their good faith, only and only because they circulate between the public, social and private sectors, between doctors, and they are not aware that they carried out these same tests. We believe in this area a huge savings, Mr, which will be totally channelled to investment. Our concern is to remove from the bad expense for the good expenditure anything that is possible. The honourable Member mentioned the issue of plasma. Legislative initiatives have been taken on this issue, which are public knowledge, and we will in fact internalize and give the State strengthened powers to be an active regulator in this sector. I am in a position to inform the House that, next week, I and the Minister of National Defence will sign a collaboration protocol that will reactivate the national strategic function of the military laboratory,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... that it can fulfill its role not only in the area of plasma, but also in that which is the strategic reserve of the medicine, of the serums, of the injectables, when it was destined for closure by a misconsidered, ill-considered initiative of the previous government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u194	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u195	I believe that with this measure we will also be able to strengthen the public intervention pillar in an active, effective and safe regulation of such products for the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u196	To put questions, Mr Luís Graça, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u197	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Minister of Health, this debate, which almost came to an end, was requested by the CDS-PP and I retain the sentence of Mrs Isabel Galliça Neto, who referred to believe that Mr. Minister's personal qualities gave him the hope that we would come to achieve better results than in the past – I assume I was talking about your past. Yes, this debate reflects and shows that over a year, the results are better than those you have achieved over the past four years: the budget implementation balance, as has been said here, is the best of all and the debt will ultimately be in line with what we received in 2015. It seems that today it snowed in the Algarve, but it was, after all, the PSD bench that froze in the plenary without any idea, without any argument to counter the results that the government has brought us. Yesterday, Mr. Minister of Health, a scheme of incentives for the geographical mobility of doctors was published for setting up in less-favoured regions. I know what I'm talking about as a member of the National Health Service: sometimes it gives the feeling that passing the bridge over the Tejo is already too far away from the quality of a national service for all Portuguese. Therefore, not only on behalf of the Algarve but also of the Guard, Viseu, Alentejo, I ask you how much you expect this diploma to solve this chronic problem of lack of doctors in peripheral regions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u198	The Minister of Health has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u199	Mr President, Mr Luís Graça, indeed the adoption of the decree establishing incentives for mobility for deprived areas and its promulgation by the President of the Republic will finally open a historic opportunity for, in an effective way, we will create conditions for young doctors and younger doctors to consider their professional future outside the major centres. But in addition, the promulgation of the decree-law on hospital management will also allow the creation of integrated responsibility centres, and local professional projects can be created, particularly in the Algarve, with professional differentiation and loyalty, with affiliation with universities, with the adoption, through stimulation, of preferential relations with clinical academic centers, the reference centers. In this way, a solid, more equitable network, closer to citizens, can gradually be created in the country, which effectively allows Portuguese to move less and less to major centres to meet their health needs. But it is obvious that the renewal of hospital equipment and the investment in technology will make the investment in the Algarve, too, an attractive engine for professionals. That is why we give high priority to this area and give guidance to ARS to run this investment program quickly. As far as possible, whatever is possible must be executed before the summer. I would like to conclude, Mr Graça, also by summarizing what this experience is of renewing the National Health Service through a more public interest-oriented health policy, which has led us to end the year with better results in everything, except for one thing, Mr. It is true that we have failed with regard to emergencies. We failed the motivation we had to persuade the Portuguese to use more of the health center.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u200	Why would it be? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u201	But, Mr President, in December, we have had the highest epidemic concentration of viruses and the spread of the virus ever since. This situation has responded to 100 points of hospital use — 100 points of hospital use! —... [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Hélder Amaral.]] ...and we opened, Mr. Members, more than 200 points in primary health care in extended care. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Do you know what's happened in the last 15 days, Your Honor? Despite the concern at finding something that has been so difficult to find, it has increased by 20% to the extended consultations in health centres.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u202	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u203	And we will continue, including in simple radiology, electrocardiography, clinical analyses, oral health, visual health, psychologists. With this, let's give greater resolution to health centres and be sure that, with quality family physicians, with quality family nurses, we will increasingly attract the citizens' demand for this type of continuous integrated care. Mr President, this was indeed a year to fill us all with pride. We have done very little, given what was the expectations of the Portuguese, but there is one important thing to be said here: we have done politics with seriousness, we have done politics with humility. We have been able to be insensitive to those who seek only to see in misfortune, fatality and suffering a political opportunity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What a difference, Mr President, between making politics with respect for people, willing to serve them, and making politics only mined by the desires of revenge, revenge and self-sufficient.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u204	That, coming from a bench that did what you did, it's unbelievable!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u205	Our effort is only one: rescue the National Health Service, return it to the Portuguese and put it in a position to serve the Portuguese and Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u206	Mrs. We have reached the end of this debate under Article 225. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u207	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u208	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u209	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u210	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u211	Mr President, I would like to ask the Bureau, using its good offices, to ask the Minister of Health to let the House, the various parliamentary groups, keep the schedule of investments in hospitals that Mr Minister showed here. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u212	As you have seen, Mr Miguel Santos did not make an appeal to the Bureau but spoke directly to the Minister of Health, who will do what he understands.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u213	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u214	To make an inquiry to the Bureau, Mr. Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u215	Mr President, it is to make an appeal to the Bureau in the same manner as that of the PSD Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u216	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u217	Mr President, the Government is available to distribute the calendar of hospitals. For the Madeira hospital, which is not in this calendar,... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u218	I'm sending the ladies back. Member States for the 2017 State Budget. [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, listen carefully.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u219	Mr. Secretary of State, do not forget that you are questioning the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u220	I'm sorry, Mr. President, I'll be quick. If the gentlemen. Members do not silence, I cannot appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u221	Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u222	We will hand over to the parliamentary groups the calendar of the four hospitals that have been referred to here. For the Madeira hospital, Article 57 (2). the State Budget for 2017 is very clear when it says that the government undertakes to finance 50 % the construction of the new hospital.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u223	Fifty percent of nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u224	As it is good to see, it could not be budgeted when there is not even a Budget from the Regional Government of Madeira. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u225	Fifty percent zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u226	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u227	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u228	Mr President, it is to ask the Bureau strictly about the conduct of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u229	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u230	Mr President, just for future memories of the fact that Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto of the CDS, did not get a reply immediately following the first question you asked the Minister of Health, of course it was a lapse, so we hope it will not repeat itself and that it will not serve as a precedent in the forthcoming discussions under Article 225. the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u231	It is then recorded for future memory, Mrs. Mrs. Members, having concluded the debate with the Minister of Health, I wish the Minister and the Members. State Secretarys of State continue early. We will move on to the next item on the agenda, which is from the assessment of petition No 141 / XIII ( 1. a ) — They require more rigor, transparency and objectivity in science that uses animal models in research, maximizing animal welfare and the return of public investment (Gonçalo Faria da Silva et al.), together in general with Bill No 372 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Introduce stricter rules on the use of animals for scientific research purposes ( NAPs) and with draft resolutions 612 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The progressive reduction and elimination of the use of animals for scientific purposes ( The Greens ), 614 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of measures in the field of the use of animals in scientific research ( CFP ), 615 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Measures for the protection of animals for experimental and other scientific purposes ( BE) and 616 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government allocate a percentage of the innovation and development funds ( R & D ) of the public expenditure distributed by the Science and Technology Foundation ( FCT ) in non-animal methods ( NAP ). To present the legislative initiatives of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u232	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We congratulate the petitioners of this initiative for bringing to Parliament a relevant but little debate and drawing the attention of more and more Portuguese — scientific experimentation with animals. The NAP is associated with this petition with two legislative initiatives. Community and Portuguese legislation provides that animal models should be replaced by alternative models where possible, with the ultimate aim of eradicating animal models from scientific research. While it is not possible to do so, it is always necessary to evaluate the need for use of animals in each project, taking into account the conscious nature of the animals. Currently, there are scientific research projects to be advanced without an opinion from the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary ( DGAV ), which has not been able to provide the necessary and legally expected response due to lack of human resources. The draft law submitted by the NAP precisely reinforces the importance of a project not being able to start without receiving a favorable assessment from DGAV and the Ethics Committee. On the other hand, the draft resolution we present defends the allocation of a percentage of the innovation and development funds distributed by the Foundation for Science and Technology to non-animal methods. As long as animal experimentation is the pillar of scientific research, the necessary impetus will never be given to the study and development of alternative techniques and, consequently, to finally achieve a civilizational and scientific state that dispenses at all experimentation with use of animals. It is necessary to change mentalities and, above all, to have political will. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u233	To present the Greens draft resolution, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words are to welcome, on behalf of the Greens Ecological Party, thousands of citizens who have subscribed to the petition we are now discussing, which seeks a science — which uses animal models — more rigorous, more transparent and more objective. This petition also draws attention to the importance of objectively evaluating the costs and benefits of this request, as well as ensuring compliance with the approved protocols, maximizing animal welfare and return on public investment in this type of research. What we, The Greens, have to say is that we accompany the concerns of the petitioners and that we therefore present a legislative initiative which is also under discussion and which, in our view, meets the claims and objectives expressed in this petition. We are presenting this legislative initiative because, in our understanding, with regard to existing legislation, and even if it is not possible to completely replace animals in the procedures, it is necessary to work so that there is a serious strengthening and deepening of continuing and accredited training in institutions where animals are created, maintained and used for scientific purposes and all those involved in animal testing processes, providing them with the skills necessary to implement best animal welfare practices, as well as the strictest experimental methodologies. Finally, the Greens initiative aims to promote investment in the development of more appropriate, accurate, reliable and alternative methodologies and techniques for human pathologies based on 3R policy — reduction, refinement and replacement. The Greens therefore want to recommend to the Government that investment in the development of alternatives to the use of animals for experimental and other scientific purposes; that it strengthen the technical and human resources of the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary Affairs so that it can ensure effective compliance with the legislation in force; that it promote the dissemination of information and the proper articulation between the various entities involved in animal testing, in particular between the national committee and the bodies responsible for animal welfare, in order to ensure that, in institutions where these bodies are not yet established, they are as quickly as possible established, in order to ensure that the approved and funded procedures are properly implemented, thus maximizing animal welfare; and that the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary, in good time, provide the updated reports and information on the use of animals for experimental purposes. It remains to be hoped that the remaining banks will accompany us in this legislative initiative, because the Greens follow the other legislative initiatives which are also under discussion today. [[Congratulations from the Greens and BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u235	To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mrs Ana Virginia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u236	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, I would like to congratulate the 4967 subscribers of the petition we are now discussing. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is not possible to ignore the growing concern of Portuguese on the issues of animal welfare, nor is it possible to ignore that the discussion we are making today also involves concerns related to the health and life of human beings. There is growing awareness of the need for alternative methods for animal use in scientific research with animal models, in order to protect animals, by minimizing or avoiding their suffering. At the same time, the need to develop research techniques and methods, which, as far as possible, avoid the use of animals, does not fail to meet the needs of, for example, causing diseases or preventing the death of human beings, should be taken into account. Recognizing this reality and having always expressed concern about the issues of welfare and respect for animals, the CFP presented in 2010 a legislative initiative that resulted in a resolution of the Assembly of the Republic aiming, among other recommendations, the implementation of 3R research centres (replacement, reduction and refining) in order to motivate and implement alternatives to reduce the use of animals for scientific purposes. As in the past, the CFP presents today with this draft resolution a recommendation to the Government to implement what is not yet implemented in the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 96 / 2010. We therefore propose to the Government advance measures in this area, together with an assessment of the state of implementation of the measures provided for in that Resolution and its communication to the Assembly of the Republic. We also propose strengthening the means of the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary so that this institution can increase its capacity for inspection on the treatment given to non-human animals used in testing. In order to minimize the suffering of animals used in scientific experimentation, we advocate the creation of a public network of establishments to ensure adequate conditions for the housing and treatment of animals used in scientific research. We also defend the promotion and implementation of the 3R policy — replacement, reduction and refinement — through research centres, in conjunction with the National Scientific and Technological System, to disturb the integrity and well-being of animals used in scientific research as little as possible. We affirm that the search for alternatives to the use of animals is always positive and beneficial, since it reduces or eliminates the suffering and pain of non-human animals. This is the contribution of the CFP on the path to reducing the use of animals in scientific research. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u237	To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mr. Luís Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u238	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I take this opportunity to first of all welcome the petitioners of this initiative, an initiative that has led to an important debate within the scientific community and which, of course, deserves attention from the rest of society, political and social actors. It is necessary to create a regulation which has the most demanding standards of animal welfare, in particular with regard to rules applied to the operation of animal breeding establishments and to ensure that the establishment of ethics committees is plural and comprehensive. It is important to adopt, at national level, a coherent approach to the assessment and strategies we want in the Portuguese scientific landscape, where it is necessary to place a bet on new methods and where it is priority to create a reference centre for the development and validation of these alternative methods as the best solution for the country's science and economy. With regard to the regulation of ethics committees in each establishment of creation, supply and use, it is essential for monitoring on-the-spot and day-to-day all matters related to the well-being, acquisition, housing, care and use of animals used in testing, as well as ensuring that the policies of substitution, reduction and improvement are carried out in each establishment. These bodies should promote ethical debate, encourage a climate of care and provide tools for the practical application and timely implementation of the latest technical and scientific knowledge. Several laboratories already have these ethics committees. However, they are removed from these spaces organizations that share different ethical views, defending scientific methods alternative to animal experimentation. It is necessary to ensure that civil society and organisations in defence of these alternatives can be included in these same committees, thus promoting a plural approach that is not confined to a closure logic. The other essential aspect that guarantees plurality and freedom of scientific creation goes through a deep debate on the role of the State and public funding in the study and investigation of alternative methods to animal experimentation. Public funds for scientific research, including those of the FCT, whether they are oriented to research scholarships or projects, should provide the possibility of free and able science in Portugal to study and have instruments to deepen the subject. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in this sense, the Bloc proposes that there be funding of the FCT for projects that opt for alternative methods; that there be a review of the composition of the National Committee for the Protection of Animals Used for Scientific and Organal Purposes Responsible for Animal Welfare (ORBEA), in order to include elements of civil society and, in particular, animal protection associations; an objective scale of pain, suffering and anguish of animals submitted to scientific procedures; and also a national database of specialists in the various human health areas, available for ethics committees. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u239	For an intervention, Mr Alexandre Quintanilla, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u240	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by complimenting the petitioners. To suggest that the use of animals for scientific research is not relevant and can simply be discontinued is not to value the enormous advances in human and animal health and of which we have all benefited and continue to benefit. Tens of Nobel Prizes originated this kind of animal experiment, experiment, this, made in several animal models, from the simplest — cellular organisms and fruit flies, for example — to the most complex — invertebrates, vertebrates and even primates. On the other hand, it is more than fair to recognize that the 3R strategy, which has already been mentioned here, has had a very positive impact on the same animal experiment. This strategy has been, fortunately, recognized, defended and implemented at various national and international levels. But to think that domains of human physiology, such as the diseases associated with aging, autoimmune diseases, behavior, diabetes and so many others whose complexity is recognized, can be studied without access to the whole body is to know all that the accumulated knowledge has come to reveal to us. Today we realize that living organisms are extraordinary ecosystems. For example, 90 % of our body cells are not human and should be studied holistically. Using isolated cells and organs or computational models is extremely useful to answer many important questions, but cannot answer questions that involve the interaction between various physiological systems where currently the greatest challenges lie. To think that you can test new medicines, especially new devices, directly in humans without having been tested first in animals does not seem reasonable. The risks involved require long and detailed studies, almost always initially in animal models. It was to try to find a fair measure in this field that Decree-Law No 113/2013 established the obligation to set up the National Commission for the Protection of Animals Used for Scientific Purposes, with the functions of advising the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary and the bodies responsible for the welfare of animals, the ORBEA, the committee, the composition and operation of which were finally only fixed on 6 October 2016 by Portaria No 260 / 2016. at this time, not only the majority of national scientific institutions, where there is animal experimentation, have already formed their ORBEA, as they have already begun to organize online to share experiences and ideas. It was precisely that same month, in October, that the first National Symposium of ORBEA was held at the i3S (Instituto de Investigação e Innovação en Saúde ), for the purpose of creating the ORBEA network. The creation of additional ethics committees seems to be a duplication of what already exists. It is necessary to allow time for this National Commission and these bodies to gain experience and operate on a regular basis. This law already allows the ORBEA to include non-specialists and I believe that some have already done so. The development of alternatives to the use of animals for experimental purposes... [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u241	I ask you to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u242	... is quite consensual among researchers and in many areas is already being implemented, but we must not forget that they can also prevent relevant studies in many domains. [[Congratulations from the PS and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u243	Mrs Ilda Novo, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u244	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We do not underestimate the content of the petition, it is still in the face of the values which it intends to defend, it seems to us that we need more legislation to regulate the protection of animals used for experimental and other scientific purposes. Indeed, and without due respect, this matter is already profusely and adequately planned and dealt with in the national legal order, specifically in Decree-Law No 113 / 2013 of 7 August 2013 which transposed into domestic law Directive No 2010 / 63 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council. As for the expressly requested one, it will be said that the proposed ethics committees, although with different denominations, have already expressed legal foresight: they are the bodies responsible for the welfare of animals as Article 34. that of that diploma is to create in each establishment. On the other hand, Portaria No 260 / 2016, very recently published, which established the composition and functioning of the National Committee for the Protection of Animals Used for Scientific Purposes, also provided for by the aforementioned Decree-Law, gave satisfaction to the need for the establishment of an independent body and to which, in addition, it is necessary to advise the competent authority, DGAV, and those bodies responsible for the welfare of animals. With regard to the permanent filming of all animals used, we believe that this is an inexhaustible claim. As is clearly the result of the opinion issued by the Order of Veterinary Physicians, it does not seem at least feasible to ensure the individual surveillance and evaluation of tens, hundreds or even thousands of small animals. In addition to utopian, such a project would be — allow me to face up — a real nightmare in logistical, economic and administrative terms.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u245	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u246	They add the ethical issues that continuous filming would inevitably raise because it inevitably also includes researchers, which from the outset creates problems of violating the principles of privacy, autonomy and proportionality. On the other hand, and consequently, we believe that the issue of the availability of the footage is necessarily damaged. As regards the scale of assessment of the suffering of the animals involved, there are well-known subjects of documents and directives dealing with this matter, issued by the European Union and transposed into the internal legal order, in particular in the 2013 Decree-Law, which establishes a strict classification of procedures based on the estimated levels of pain, suffering, distress and lasting harm inflicted on animals, and therefore any such initiative also seems indispensable. Finally, with regard to the preparation of a public report on animal experiments, responsibility is already assigned to DGAV, and there is no justification for the implementation of new measures. We therefore do not see the need for legislative initiatives in this area. The existing regulations already guarantee and promote the development of alternative approaches to achieve the desire to fully replace procedures with living animals for scientific and educational purposes. However, and in conclusion, it understands the CDS which should be considered point 1 of draft resolution No 614/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) submitted by the CFP with regard to the evaluation and information of this House on the implementation of the recommendations contained in the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 96 / 2010 adopted unanimously in this House. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u247	Mr Álvaro Batista, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u248	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by complimenting you. I would also like to congratulate the 4967 subscribers of this petition, which brought to the House the problem of animal experimentation. For PSD people are first, but we also understand that we need to know how to look at the whole reality. Respect for animals is certainly an important issue. That is why, even though people were first, when we were government, we did not do as before, having been the PSD Government / CDS publishing Decree-Law No 113 / 2013 on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. Although we have always put people forward if, in Portugal, there is a diploma on the protection of animals used for experimentation, which advocates their progressive substitution in research, the refinement of care to be provided to them, the obligation to evaluate projects, this is the result of the work of the last government. There is already a law in Portugal to safeguard the rights of animals in scientific experiments and this is due to the action of the PSD and the CDS, due to the former coalition government, not to management. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the experiment with animals on new drugs, new cosmetics, new therapies has always been, and it continues to be, done in defense of people for the protection and health of people and it is the people who must be at the forefront of our concerns. But more, if, at the moment, the crime of abuse of pets is defined in the law, this is also the result of the work of the PSD / CDS coalition, because Law No. 69 / 2014 — therefore 2014 — is not the time of management either. Now we want to demagogy ourselves at the expense of people's health: it is intended that all animal experiments should be completed quickly and then forced to all be permanently filmed to avoid abuse. The problem is that these cameras, ladies and gentlemen. Members, at least if people are first than demagogy, they are lacking in schools, in many schools in this country, where there are recurrent problems of vandalism and where management does nothing. If you want examples, look at Ramada High School in Odivelas — Questions Nos. 2844 and 2846 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) presented by the PSD, and see the « push game » of this Government's replies. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is already a law regulating experimentation with animals, made it the PSD/CDS coalition government. All laws can be improved, but this has to be done with reasonable proposals. Reasonable proposals that serve people, because for the PSD people are always first. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u249	Mrs. Members, we have reached the end of the second item on the agenda, with a view to petition No 141 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ), together with Bill No 372 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) and draft resolutions 612 / XIII, 614 / XIII, 615 / XIII and 616 / XIII ( 2. ( a). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the voting period. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u250	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u251	Mr Miguel Santos, we have already finished the previous point and entered the voting period.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u252	Mr President, this is not about the previous point. It is actually about the debate before the previous point.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u253	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u254	The Government has committed itself to leaving a map to be distributed by parliamentary groups containing the investments envisaged in new hospitals. I wonder if this map is on the Table to be distributed.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u255	Mr President, there is no map in the Bureau, but you may ask the Government. at this time, we have already entered the voting period. There are therefore no interventions on previous issues. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin the voting, I would ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to take account of the presentation of a diploma.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u256	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform you that you have entered the Bureau, and it has been admitted, Bill No. 373 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alterly Decree-Law No 241 / 2007 of 21 June ( Defines the legal regime applicable to Portuguese firefighters in the mainland ), creating rules on the dispensation of firefighters who perform functions in the Public Administration ( CDS-PP ).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u257	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, before we start voting, we will proceed to the quorum of deliberations, using the electronic system, for what I ask everyone to register. [[Pause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the electronic framework records 211 Members present, to which the honourable Members add. Deputies Luís Campos Ferreira, from PSD, João Paulo Correia, from PS, and Ana Virginia Pereira, from the PCP, who for any reason failed to register their presence electronically, making a total of 214 Members present, which means that we have a quorum of deliberation more than enough. Let us then begin by voting No 200/ XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Greetings for the celebration of 50. the World Day of Peace ( CDS-PP ), which will be read by Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u258	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Last January 1, 2017, as usual, World Day of Peace was celebrated, fulfilling on this date 50 years of its institution, a remarkable milestone for the building of peace, justice and development. Convinced that "peace is a duty" of all men and peoples, Pope Paul VI urged all men of good will to proclaim peace on the first day of every civil year as an absolute imperative. At a distance of five decades, the commitment to peace as universal value continues to involve us permanently. The Assembly of the Republic recognises the irrevocable importance of this initiative and shares, at the beginning of this year, the desire to promote and defend peace, founded on freedom and justice, in the face of the dangers that are constantly threatening it. The year 2016 was a year of increasing violence in the world. The worsening of the multiple foci of instability leaves us dramatically away from this genuine aspiration, from the humanitarian tragedy in Syria to the terrible scenario in which the Mediterranean has transformed, from the escalation of hatred, fundamentalism and transnational terrorism to ethnic massacres committed in Burundi and Somalia, or even from the escalating decline of religious freedom to 800 million people who continue to live in conditions of extreme poverty. in this sense, the Assembly of the Republic, driven by its responsibility and commitment to the promotion of these values, reaffirms its commitment to peace as a universal plan and recognizes in the Pontifical Message, given by Pope Francis on the occasion of the celebration of the 50th. the anniversary of World Peace Day, a respectable and exemplary humanist contribution in the pursuit of peace among peoples and in overcoming the divisions existing in the world, for which politics is a fundamental instrument. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u259	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u260	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u261	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u262	Mr President, it is to inform that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a declaration of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u263	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 13 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Third amendment to Deliberation No 1 - PL / 2016 of 19 January, as amended by Deliberation No 3 - PL / 2016 of 22 March, and by Deliberation No 5 - PL / 2016 of 10 May, Composition of delegations to international parliamentary organizations ( President of the HR ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 610 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Madrid ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, the following is draft resolution No 620 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Extension of the period of operation of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the Recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box and the Management of the Bank ( AR President ). On this subject, let us say two doctrines: that which always belongs to the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic to vote on these extensions of time, whether or not they are authoritative investigations, and that the extension of the term of operation depends only on an order by the President of the Assembly of the Republic. I am therefore available to withdraw this draft resolution and draw up this order, provided that it is clear that there is no objection to this on the part of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Pause.]] With no objection, draft resolution No 620 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) deemed to be withdrawn. I shall therefore draw up this order to extend the period of operation of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the Recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box and the Management of the Bank. We then proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 322 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Create the forest management account ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u264	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u265	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u266	Mr President, I would just like to say that on my own behalf I will make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u267	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall vote on draft resolution No 609 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the allocation of financial support to forest producers ( BE) whose initial text has been replaced at the request of the author. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, with votes in favour of BE and the NAP and with abstentions from the PS, the CFP and the Greens.]] Mrs. Members, we proceed to the general vote on Bill No 21 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Consecrates on Tuesday of Carnival as a compulsory national holiday ( Amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, amended by Laws No 105 / 2009 of 14 September, 53 / 2011 of 14 October, 23 / 2012 of 25 June, 47 / 2012 of 29 August, 69 / 2013 of 30 August, 27 / 2014 of 8 May, 55 / 2014 of 25 August, 28 / 2015 of 14 April, 120 / 2015 of 1 September, 8 / 2016 of 1 April, and 28 / 2016 of 23 August ) ( The Greens ). The title and text were replaced at the author's request. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall also vote in general on Bill No. 369 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Labour Code, establishing the Third Carnival Fair as a compulsory national holiday ( NAP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 604 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Negotiation into social consultation of guiding principles for specific legislation in order to define which holidays are required to be observed on Monday of the following week ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, with votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u268	There we went to PàF (Portugal to Front) to life! That was a great government project! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-19.u269	Mrs. Members, let us vote, as a general rule, on Bill No 372 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Introduce stricter rules with regard to the use of animals for scientific research purposes ( NAP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE and PAN and abstentions from the CFP and the Greens.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 612 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — For the progressive reduction and elimination of the use of animals for scientific purposes ( The Greens) for which points 1 and 3 were asked to be voted together first and then points 2 and 4 together. We shall therefore vote on points 1 and 3 of the motion for a resolution. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Let us now vote on points 2 and 4. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected and votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We proceeded to the vote on draft resolution No 614 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement measures in the field of the use of animals in scientific research ( CFP ) for which a separate vote has also been requested. So we started by voting on point 1 of the draft resolution. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote on point 2. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 3. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from PS and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on point 4. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 615 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Measures for the protection of animals for experimental and other scientific purposes ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, The Greens and the NAP and the PCP abstain.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 616 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government allocate a percentage of the innovation and development funds ( R & D ) of the public expenditure distributed by the Science and Technology Foundation ( FCT ) in non-animal methods ( NAP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, The Greens and the NAP and the PCP abstain.]] We turn to the general vote on Bill No 43/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the scheme for the professional valorisation of workers in public service. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, the bill goes down to 10. the Commission. We have thus come to the end of today's votes. The next plenary meeting will be held on Wednesday, 25 January, at 3 p.m., and the agenda results from a marking of the Left Block, in which the Decree-Law No 11 -A / 2017 of 17 January will be appreciated — creates an exceptional measure of support for employment by reducing the contribution rate by the employer[ Parliamentary assessments n. 30 / XIII ( 2 ). a ) ( BE) and 29 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PCP ) ]. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 8 minutes.]]
