ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] I ask the authorities to open the galleries, please. Mrs. Members, our agenda today begins with an ongoing debate under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, which, in paragraph 10, refers to the following : « In addition to the power law referred to in paragraph 1, the current debate may also be held by the joint initiative of three parliamentary groups, by exchange with their respective weekly political declarations, not being mandatory the presence of the Government. Do not keep on seeking. ” The Bureau received a request from the PSD, BE, and PCP, to request an up-to-date debate on the New Bank's situation, so we will proceed to it, ending with political statements by parties that have not subscribed to this marking, i.e. the CDS-PP, the Greens and the Socialist Party. In the meantime, I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to report the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform you that they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, the proposals of lein. 48 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 22 / 2013 of 26 February giving judicial administrators access to various databases, including the computer record of executions, tax and social security databases, which falls to 1. the Commission, 49 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the law on public health, which falls to 9. the Commission, and 50 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates the legal regime for transport by vehicle from an electronic platform which falls to 6. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau and were admitted to the motions for resolutions Nos 43/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the European Agreement on Persons Intervening in Trials before the European Court of Human Rights, opened for signature in Strasbourg on 5 March 1996, 44 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Headquarters Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Organization of Ibero-American States for Education, Science and Culture, signed in Lisbon on 4 October 2016, and 45 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the amendments to the Agreement on the establishment of the Common Fund for Commodities adopted by the Governing Council on 10 December 2014 which fall to 2. the Commission. Finally, they entered the Bureau, and were admitted, draft resolutions 610 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Madrid ( President of the HR ) and 611 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of urgent measures at the crossing of the Tejo River between Chamusca and Golegã ( PS ), which falls to 6. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us therefore move on to the first item on our agenda, which consists of a current debate, the PSD, BE, and the CFP, on the situation of the New Bank. I stress that all parliamentary groups have the right to intervene on this point, which will be opened by the PSD. [[Pause.]] After all, it will be opened by the Left Block. Mrs. Members, as is the first time Article 72 ( 10 ) is used. the Rules of Procedure, it is natural that there are some difficulties. Mrs Mariana Mortágua, you have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese Republic paid 4, 2 % yesterday for a 10-year Treasury Bond issue amounting to EUR 3000 million. It is the most expensive debt Portugal issues in the last two years. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u5	But they are not already excited about the signs of misfortune, always ready to declare the impending catastrophe and as happy to do so, as they have just demonstrated here. There is nothing in the country's political or economic driving that justifies this speculation. Who now determines the rise of interest is the one who has previously achieved its reduction: it is called the European Central Bank. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u6	And, no matter how unsound their designs are, nothing has to be divine or supernatural. Interest rises because German inflation is taking a step back from the expansionist policy of the European Central Bank. Interest rises because Portugal is reaching the ECB's quota for the purchase of Treasury Bonds on a secondary market. Interest is driven by risks in the world economy and despite the signs of the Portuguese economy. With public debt in 130 % of GDP, it is true that markets are a permanent threat to the solvency of the country, in the same way as the dominance of the European breakdown calls into question the fragile financial system and, on the limit, the single currency itself. But you ask the Members and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen: to what extent is this recognition of the external threats they have posed about Portugal related to the debate on the destination of the New Bank? In everything! Because a country that does not control its banking system is a country that cannot manage its sovereign debt or its domestic credit. It is a smaller country, reduced in driving the economy and in defending it in the event of external shock. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Let's see, ladies and gentlemen. Members, some numbers: in 2015 the five largest banks in the country held 84 % of all bank assets. in this group, there are two Portuguese banks — the Caixa and the New Bank — and three foreign banks, distributed between Angolan, Chinese and Spanish capitals. If the New Bank is sold, almost 70 % of the Portuguese relief bank will remain in foreign hands. This is not the first time that the country discusses the importance of national decision-making centres and if there is anything that history has proved is that only public ownership guarantees control of strategic sectors from Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u8	But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if the sale of one more bank to foreign capital would be a wrong and also dangerous idea, what about your delivery to investment funds, real funds like Apollo, Lone Star or Fosun? We know the modus operandi of these buyers and the image is nothing beautiful. What they want is to dismantle the New Bank's carcass, execute the debtor companies, suck as fast as they can. This, of course, without speaking to the workers, who have suffered in the skin the hard journey of the New Bank. We are well reminded of what happened in the privatisation of the cash insurance profit — loyalty — sold by the Coel Pass Government to Fosun. Loyalty was paid with money from its own safes— plus a privatization that today appears as a star of Sergio Monteiro in its journey of the Coelho Pass Government. [[Congratulations from BE.]] But let's go back to the New Bank: the proposed purchase does not just mean to sell the third largest bank in the country to an abutre fund. Yes, it is to pay to hand over the third largest bank in the country to an abutre fund, and that is simply unacceptable. The only solution that protects the New Bank and the Country is therefore nationalization, but also it is not free of difficulties or demands. The greatest difficulty lies in the pressures of the European Commission and the European Central Bank, which have repeatedly shown that they put their dogmatic authoritarianism above the stability of our financial system. In the face of these blackmails and pressures, the Government must definitely exclude both the Bank’s liquidation and a sale of favour. We don't forget Banif's mistake! On the other hand, the great requirement is not to repeat the bad nationalization of BPN. The shareholders of the one who was known as the PSD bank never paid for their frauds and the losses continue to appear in the public accounts. on the contrary, the nationalisation of the New Bank requires transparency, starting with the rigorous evaluation of its balance sheet, assets and guarantees. However, we know perfectly well that the Banco de Portugal cannot, it is not capable or unwilling to make such an assessment. However, difficulties cannot be avoided either. Nationalization of the New Bank will not be done without costs. We speak very clearly in this regard: the recovery of the 3900 million injected by the previous government in 2014 is today as unlikely as it was at the time, when Passos Coelho promised zero cost to the taxpayers. It was all short leg propaganda, as we know today and it's proven. Still, all available data indicate that nationalization is the least penalizing option for public record, with an undeniable advantage: once paid, the State controls its bank and can manage it over time. in the words of Manuela Ferreira Leite, she also defends nationalization, although in different ways than those who defend the Block of Left, «he who pays, sends»! [[Congratulations from BE.]] Above all, today there is a rapid decision that ends with the instability left by PSD and CDS in the New Bank. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, if we learn something from the financial crisis and the BES case, which is the New Bank’s past, it is that only public ownership and management can make credit granting a service and not a burden for the country. Only by breaking up with the past of BES, which is the past of the New Bank, is that the New Bank and the economy of the country can have a future. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u9	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP, Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The situation of the New Bank confirms the falsity of the speech of the clean exit made by the PSD/CDS government and makes it increasingly clear the responsibility of these two parties for the serious consequences that may come to the country and for the Portuguese of the decisions they have made about the Espírito Santo Group and the Banco Espírito Santo. The need for a decision on the New Bank to keep it in public condition and in accordance with criteria that serve the interests of the country, the people and the national economy, which respect the rights of workers and their jobs, which safeguard the depositors and strengthen the public banking system, becomes increasingly clear.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u12	In view of the current situation of the New Bank, there are two first claims that the CFP considers fundamental: firstly, that the Bank's situation cannot separate itself from the intervention in BES / GES, the responsibility of PSD, CDS and Banco de Portugal, serving the interests of its private shareholders without taking care of the interests of the depositors and the national interest and compromising the State with the application of the resolution measure, secondly, that the response to the problems of the financial system, in particular as regards the New Bank, is not in the solution that has generated the problem, i.e. in the private management of the bank and the alienation of the State. The way and the answers are, yes, in the public control of the bank, in a perspective of defense and affirmation of the interest of the people and the country and in the rejection of the solution that the previous PSD/CDS government always wanted, of socialization of the losses generated by the adventures of the bankers and the Espírito Santo Group, in everything similar to the false nationalization of BPN. The CFP proposed, from the very first moment, that all the assets and assets of the Espírito Santo Group, of the main shareholders and members of the GES Higher Council should be called upon to pay the losses of the Bank. The collapse of BES would thus be borne by those who have squandered it and who have benefited millions of euros with it. This PCP proposal was rejected in past PSD legislation, CDS and PS. The PSD/CDS government, while making the speech on the famous illusion of the clean exit and hiding from the Portuguese the serious problems of the financial system, gave the owners of the BANIF many million euros and saved the riches of the Group and the family Espírito Santo, transferring to the workers and the people their losses, putting at risk the savings of many Portuguese with the decisions it made. The 4, 9 billion euros of state loan to the Resolution Fund and the possible capital needs of the New Bank are the responsibility of the Banco de Portugal and PSD and CDS, which did not want to estimate the costs of their decisions in time. The devaluation of the New Bank and the disturbances in the financial system caused by its instability are the responsibility of PSD and CDS, which, in fact, even away from power, insist on a strategy to value the business of private banks, continuing to attack the General Deposit Box, in addition to the New Bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u14	The entire process was conducted by the PSD/CDS government and Banco de Portugal to transfer the costs of its options to Portuguese. [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] If it is now understood that the State should continue to be « renting belly » of large private groups, such as a laundering of the crimes and thefts of the major shareholders and economic groups, then the Government will privatize the New Bank, thus losing much more than budgetary resources, but also a powerful financial tool. If the PS Government decides to privatize the New Bank, regardless of the value of the sale, the State, the law and public resources will once again be used to transfer private losses into the public debt, not in the name of the bank's salvation, but of its private nature.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u15	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u16	Nor should it be for false nationalization, as was done with BPN, because there too the State, the law and public resources would be used to transfer the damages to the workers and the people, cleaning up the Bank and handing it over to another private group anyone who, as expected, will use it for their own benefit, outside the national interest, of the workers of the institution and the Portuguese people.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u18	Nationalizing temporarily would not be for the State and for the Portuguese more than assuming the damage suffered to deliver the future profits. The only solution that upholds the collective interest of Portuguese is the integration of the New Bank into the public banking system, its maintenance as a public institution, but aimed at a national control strategy for decision-making centres, long-term valuation, not to make the Bank more attractive to any private person, but to make it increasingly important to the public. This solution proposed by the Portuguese Communist Party involves a weighted assessment of the Bank's balance sheet, the segregation of toxic assets and the appropriate capitalisation of the Bank, without giving up for a time to recover the credits and other debts. It is a solution that needs to be decided in a sovereign way, which defends national interest in the fight against European taxes and bureaucracy, not abdicating to call to responsibility the real responsible for the fall of the Banco Espírito Santo, paying for the damages they have caused. This is to take advantage of the New Bank as an institution that can be placed at the service of financing the economy, an institution with important market share and economic and territorial presence, a collective of workers able to serve the Country and the Portuguese within the financial system and a structure capable of being a channel of financing for productive activities and Portuguese families. A solution that contributes to a strengthened public banking system, with complementary institutions, but both at the service of the people and the country. A more robust General Deposit Box and a more stable New Bank are the responses proposed by the PCP and which are in the hands of the Portuguese, their struggle and persistence in defending the rights of workers and the population. If we already pay the Bank, let us keep it for our collective benefit. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u19	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD, Mr Marco António Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The nationalization of BPN, held on 12 November 2008 and promoted by the Socialist Government of then—and, remember, with our opposition, was disastrous. Today, almost nine years later, the same socialist rulers seem to be trying to restore the film of nationalization from another bank. The country cannot go back and repeat the mistakes of the past. in these 14 months of life, the government has constantly claimed to be solving the problems of the financial sector. Let us be clear: this government is not solving anything. On the contrary! the current government competed to ensure the stability conditions indispensable to the proper functioning of the financial system. In a little more than one year in office, whenever the government is called to act, it is acting badly. The Banif resolution, announced in December 2015 by the Government, has so far resulted in a cost of EUR 2 billion for taxpayers. It followed the endless novel in which the government transformed the General Deposit Box in the last year. All the disagreements, misconceptions and false alarm launched as to the real situation of the General Deposit Box constitute an authentic manual of bad practices for the financial sector. Unbelievable, the country observed successive government upheavals. It was painful and outraged to see the news that we witnessed, from the stealth attempts to attack the law, followed by an unprecedented discussion in the public square filled with mutual recriminations between socialist rulers and administrators appointed by that government. All of this adds to the grave circumstance that, in just one year, the General Deposit Box had two administrations with powers of mere management. The irresponsibility such as the Government, with the parliamentary coverage of the PS, the PCP, the BE and the Greens, dealt with the file of the recapitalisation and designation of the administration of the public bank, caused enormous costs of reputation to the General Deposit Box and, by drag, to the entire Portuguese banking and financial system.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u21	What a waste!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u22	The country still does not refer to the General Deposit Box episode and already the New Bank enters the media Berlin. Perhaps so you can divert the attention of a General Deposit Box from the drift. in the last eight days, we have been provided with news that transmit an evolutionary narrative, forwarding to the inevitable nationalization of the New Bank. Today it will be difficult to find an informed Portuguese who knows exactly what the Government and the parliamentary majority on the left who supports it with regard to the New Bank. Do you want to sell it? Did you put up your liquidation? Or, as it seems to be clear in the last few days and in these last speeches, do they want their nationalisation? But at what cost? At what cost is all this being done and at what cost do they intend to achieve this nationalisation? It is recalled that the PS voted in favour of the conclusions of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry to BES. And these are very clear in its two main points: the BES failed due to management errors; the Resolution of the BES was a decision of the sole responsibility of the Banco de Portugal and was considered by the Commission of Inquiry as the smallest of the evils, in view of the range of solutions available in early August 2014. The ventured hypothesis of an experience of provisional nationalization of the New Bank, followed by the sale to a private person, has already been tempted in BPN and cost taxpayers billions in a small bank. What will happen to a bank of the structural dimension of the New Bank? For the PSD, and given the historical facts, this option is an absolute mistake. More: It would be paradoxical for the government to want another public bank, when it treats the one that is already yours so dispassionate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u24	the government is responsible, with discretion and with effectiveness, to generate conditions for the sale of the Bank, ensuring the safeguard of taxpayers. It is not good to take this process almost public form as responsible for comments on proposals and the negotiation process, almost always culminating in the request for nationalisation. Today, it is becoming clear that the left-wing Government and the parliamentary majority that supports it have chosen the financial system as a tool of political combat to try to reduce the results that have been achieved in the past by the PSD Government and the CDS-PP... [[Protests from PCP MP Miguel Tiago.]] ...and thus also seek to provide, in advance, a justification for its government failures. It is with concern that, finally, we left a note on the issue of public debt, held yesterday, at a much higher interest than was required a year ago, costing the Portuguese more than EUR 400 million. It is appropriate to say that these are the facts, the rest are excuses for those who have not properly prepared the future and now take the result of their government unwises. One year ago, this government still enjoyed a good reputation on the markets, left by the PSD government and the CDS. [[Rice from PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Now, the circumstances show that this government is unable to create confidence in such markets. If it is true that this intention confesses to nationalising the New Bank is an intention that is being tested, on the part of the PSD here we will be very concretely to make careful monitoring of everything they intend to do. Don't count on us for ruinous adventures. Don't count on the PSD to repeat the mistakes you made in the past. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u25	After the initial statements of this current debate, we proceed to the stage of discussion. The first request for intervention registered by the Bureau is from the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party. Mr. José Luís Ferreira, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When we talk about the problem of the New Bank, we are talking about a problem that has been dragged two and a half years ago. And I will not bring the responsibilities of the previous government, the PSD/CDS government, which are many. I would just say that the PSD/CDS government has created a problem, but it has not solved it, and every passing day, we realize that, after all, the "clean output" is getting further polluted. But in this discussion, it should also be borne in mind that when we talk about the New Bank, we are talking about the third largest national bank operating in our country, we are talking about a bank that has 16 % of the national market. Then it should also be noted that mistakes can make a useful sense. But mistakes only have a useful meaning when and if we are willing to learn from them so that we do not err again. And what we think is that the New Bank cannot follow the same path as the BPN, in which the State, the taxpayer ended up paying the buyer. And when you pay the buyer, something is wrong, because normally the buyer pays, the buyer doesn't receive; he who sells doesn't pay, he who sells receives. But that is not what happened in the case of BPN, in which the State, the taxpayer had to pay to sell. This cannot happen again with the New Bank because taxpayers are already tired of paying for bankers' adventures and irresponsibilities. It is necessary to put an end to the immorality that represents that which we have been watching and which is very simple: when banks make profits, their shareholders divide profits among themselves to millions, silently, no one hears them, they distribute the cake and they shut themselves up, very little; when banks hurt, the state calls the taxpayers to pay the bill. Well, this cannot continue to happen. It is necessary to put an end to this immorality and to this injustice. And, in our perspective, this paradigm shift should start with the New Bank. And there is only one way to do it, which is to keep the New Bank in the public sphere, removing the money from the prey that they represent the New Bank. Let's see the recent history of the New Bank. First, Lone Star came to offer EUR 750 million to the Resolution Fund, with the promise of an increase in capital at the same value, but requiring the Portuguese State to make a public contribution of EUR 2500 million to the assets. In other words, this Fund wanted to protect itself at the expense of the Portuguese taxpayer against any eventualities. Well, that's actually easy. Then came the US fund Apollo with a new offer, but demanding from the State a public guarantee to guard against any devalued assets. Yeah, well, that's easy for me, too. And what we think is that handing over the New Bank to any of these funds, which are seen as real funds, only in order to quickly make capital profitable by breaking down the asset, will represent a real crime and a serious offense to the public interest to the Greens. The State cannot be taking up private business, since it puts taxpayers' money at risk. In conclusion, I just wanted to reaffirm the Greens' position on the New Bank, on this issue now under discussion. The Greens argue that the solution that least costs taxpayers and that best serves the interests of the country should be the solution to be adopted for the New Bank. And this solution, bearing in mind these two assumptions, is something very simple: the State must take account of the New Bank. The New Bank must remain in the public sphere, the New Bank must remain in the hands of the State so that the State can place it at the service of the development of the country and of our economy, at the service of the interests of the Portuguese, at the service of the interests of our country. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u27	Mr João Almeida has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Recalling a phrase that the left have often spoken about the financial sector, I would say that the financial sector is too important to be left to the taste of ideological complexes. Unfortunately, that is what has happened in recent times. We have heard about the New Bank, but we have heard little about what will be the most effective solution for Portuguese taxpayers, what could be a Bank strategy for the post-solution period, whatever it is, and especially for those who advocate nationalization want a nationalized bank for what? To do what? In particular, the New Bank distinguishes itself from the General Deposit Box in what? On that, there is no answer. So the only thing left is effectively the ideological complex. This is no wonder when it comes from the benches of the PCP and the Left Block ; strange is the Socialist Party's position on the New Bank. The Socialist Party had a political opportunity, if it were of the opinion that the Bank should be nationalized. It could, when it assumed responsibility of the Government of Portugal, have interrupted the current proceedings concerning the sale of the New Bank, saying that it considered that the best solution was nationalization. I could have done it, but he didn't. by not doing so, he kept a line that came from behind and thus, of course, he has to be responsible for the coherence of the line that he kept. What cannot be understood is that the Socialist Party maintains a sales process and then seems to be twisting in silence so that the sale runs badly and nationalization is done. This does not prejudice any other interest other than the national interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u29	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u30	It is not understood that those who have the responsibility of the government take a position in the government, which is that of sale, and then, in silence, they want nationalization to take place.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u32	This position of the Socialist Party can cost the Portuguese billions and is totally irresponsible. Therefore, in the CDS, what we say is clear: we do not align in this totally suicidal and irresponsible strategy of the Socialist Party. If the Socialist Party has chosen to keep the sale process, then the sale process is going well. If the Socialist Party has chosen to maintain the process of sale, to examine the proposals, to choose the one that can best be for the country and to carry out the process; not to embark on a rush of public statements that can only prejudice this process, made by those who should be the first to be responsible for the process.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u33	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u34	We already know that so far, contrary to what you announced to do, the Socialist Party has only achieved, from the point of view of the management of the financial sector, extremely negative results. It started by BANIF, in which it insisted on a quick solution and gave Banif a favor to Santander. This was the first failure of the Socialist Party in relation to the financial sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u36	He continued in the General Deposit Box, saying that there was a need for a massive and urgent recapitalisation. It was unable to explain the value of increased recapitalisation and failed to do so urgently. The only thing you could do was name successive administrations, with the problems we all know that happened. Now, with regard to the New Bank, it chooses to maintain the sale process and to twist and make statements so that the solution will become nationalization.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u38	For those who wanted to distinguish themselves from the previous government in terms of financial system, the Socialist Party is actually doing so. You are achieving this because it is such irresponsibility and the results are so bad that you are, in fact, very different from the previous government in relation to the financial sector. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u39	For an intervention, Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD, Bloc and PCP decided to bring the debate to Parliament on the theme of the New Bank. I confess that I have some difficulty in understanding the last theory, still a few hours ago made public by the parliamentary leader Luís Montenegro, who I also think is the CDS theory, since it seems that this is the position of Mr. João Almeida, and that it is a little strange theory. This theory is as follows: for PSD and CDS, tell a buyer of a bank that we will sell at any price,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u41	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u42	...because we don't even conceive of an alternative, since nationalization is a disaster, it's something that values a bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u43	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u44	It's a little sdruxula theory. The gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS understand that you should get near a buyer and say so: « I am desperate, I can only sell to you or someone like you and as soon as possible,... »...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u45	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u46	...“... because if I don’t do it only nationalization remains and this is the end of the world. » The Witnesses. Do you really think that this position is the one that best preserves the value of the Bank?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u47	There he is! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u48	I hope it was a mistake, a lapse, because yesterday, for example, Mr Duarte Pacheco made a sensible statement in the TSF. I think anyone who has already bought or sold a property, whether a carrot or a sack of potatoes, anyone who has already gone to the supermarket or tried to buy a carpet on the market understands one thing: if I tell a buyer that I don't have an alternative, that's definitely not good for the seller, but it's great for the buyer. I was hoping you guys would. Members of the PSD and the CDS would stop for 2 seconds to think and realize that this is obvious to everyone, and I hope that also for you. Members of the PSD and the CDS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Mrs. Members, the Socialist Party has no principled position against one or another. The Socialist Party's position of principle is that of safeguarding the State's capital interest and the interest of taxpayers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u50	Look!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u51	...and it does not close, at first, neither a sale nor a nationalisation. Our position is simple: we will do what is best for the New Bank and there is nothing that determines that, in principle, nationalization is a better position or that sales is a better position. Depends on the proposals, Mr. Members, it depends on the buyer and depends on what the buyer proposes to do with the Bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u53	We in the Socialist Party do not have a dogmatic position on the New Bank, we want to lead the process that you have bound us. You assured the country that the process would have an enormous success, which most likely would not only be clean out in the bank, but would even be immaculate, that there would not be one hundred costs for the taxpayers and that the Bank would be sold with a huge ease. There are statements by all the policy makers of the PSD and the CDS of the previous government, who said: « There is no cost for taxpayers. The bank is good, it will be sold and well sold! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” And then we have a very strange statement from the former Minister of Finance Maria Luís Albuquerque, who, as always in these debates, is sitting in the last row of Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u54	There he is! Now the deputy can't sit where she wants to? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u55	In September 2015, Maria Luís Albuquerque said that he understood that he should sell as quickly as possible, because waiting for better times to sell would not be the best business, and that he even defended that the sale had been made for one month of the elections, but that he could not do it, because the Banco de Portugal did not agree. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we understand one thing: if it is the Banco de Portugal that leads the sale, the honourable Members. Members of the PSD and the CDS cannot say in September that the decision is the Banco de Portugal and, a few months later, in the same process, say that the responsibility is the current government! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us see if we understand: since this government has taken possession, we are solving problems in the financial sector that either you have not solved or you have worsened.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u56	All right! [[PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u57	The IMF ( International Monetary Fund ) says in the post-programme report last year, when you were still in government, that the problems in the financial sector exist and have not been solved and that the biggest problem in the financial sector is the quality of the asset portfolio and the low profitability of the bank asset portfolio. A year later, what do the same IMF and all financial institutions say? That the problems of the bank stay because they were inherited,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u58	Don't! They've been aggravated!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u59	... but that this government has taken important steps towards stabilization, in particular ensuring that the largest bank in the system has been properly recapitalised, which you have not done in due course. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are doing what you have not done and solving the problems that you have left us. You should have the smell — the smell! — they should at least explain to the Portuguese if, like the Socialist Party, they are not available to sell at any price, because selling may also cost taxpayers, as was the case with the last known proposal. Furthermore, the cost for taxpayers was EUR 1750 million, the Portuguese taxpayers would pay EUR 1750 million to sell the Bank. If the CDS and PSD understand that nationalisation is not under any circumstances an appeal position that can even strengthen the Portuguese state's negotiating position, then tell the Portuguese to sell themselves at any price or liquidate the Bank. And they have to take responsibility for that action.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u60	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u61	This is the responsibility they should assume before the Portuguese and not come here with the release of the custom... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... discard your responsibilities and pretend that the problems in the financial sector have been created today. They didn't, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, you know that very well. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u62	Democracy is not rejection!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u63	Mr Marco António Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After listening, Mr. João Galamba, I became aware that he is a fanatical disciple of the IMF. This, for us, is something new and we will look forward to their interventions on the IMF with the same interest. On the question of who is responsible or not for the sale of the Bank, I reply with great ease: in our time the manager was the regulator, it was the Banco de Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u65	I'd give him a good time!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u66	Now, for the news we're hearing, either about statements of people with responsibility in this bench,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u67	Well, well! [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u68	... or about the government's intervention in this process, it seems that the participation of various elements of this bank and the government are also helping in the negotiation of the sale. That is not a good symptom for our democracy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u69	Mr. João Galamba, we do not want to interfere in the negotiation. What we also do not want is that the honourable Members. Members make this narrative and this attempt to accommodate public opinion to an inevitable idea that the Bank must be nationalized. We've known them, and we've known this technique for many years. We are no longer surprised at your attempt to create in the public the inevitability of the Nationalisation of the New Bank. [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] Make your obligation, do not interfere in the process and, if they do, assist Banco de Portugal in negotiating the sale of the New Bank. That is your obligation, it is not to be creating entropies into the system, nor is it to make declarations that diminish the Bank, implying that it is so bad that you want to nationalize it,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u70	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u71	...because he has no alternative to his future. [[PSD applause.]] Do you know what harms the Bank, Mr. Member? What's wrong with the bank... are you listening, Member? I'm talking to you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u72	I'm listening.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u73	Good. Do him good. [[Protests by PS Member Carlos César.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u74	Unfortunately, I'm listening.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u75	Mr. Carlos César, I'm talking to you. What harms the Bank, Mr. João Galamba, is the Minister of Finance who said six months ago that he admitted the bank's liquidation! [[Well, well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u76	That's what's damaging the value of the bank! Does he want to wind up or not? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u77	It's the potato theory!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u78	I know that Mr. Carlos César is upset and perhaps he wants to use the floor to say something about some proposal. But if you would like to present the proposals here, we are available to discuss them, since the Government has not brought the proposals to Parliament, nor the Banco de Portugal, and since, in such a well-founded way, you have given your opinion on this subject. on our side, we will not hesitate to stand against a solution that aims to create a risk for the public record, for the taxpayers. It's up to the government to be careful...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u79	So what do you want to do? Tell me!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u80	Do you know what the problem is, sir? It is not for that reason that you are doing that for a very simple reason: just read the letter from Mr President of the Board of Directors of the General Deposit Box about what happened with your administration to know that you were destroying value in the Box during the last year. You are responsible for destroying the public bank with the shame they have promoted in their interference there. You have been destroying a bank in the last year, which is essential for the growth of the economy and support for Portuguese companies. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u81	...and now you want to have another bank to do the same thing? Is that what you gentlemen intend to do? Mr President, we ask the Bureau to ensure that the letter in which Dr. José de Matos says that the indecision of the Minister of Finance causes serious damage to the bank is distributed. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u82	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u83	Mr President, what we heard from the PSD was not the defense of the taxpayer's interest, it was not the defense of the interest of the banking system,... [[Ah...!]] [[Ah...!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u84	... was the PSD building a dogmatic fortress that is between itself and the interests of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u85	Look who's talking! Let's see!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u86	A dogmatic fortress full of inconsistencies, beginning with inconsistencies with the past, because the nationalization of BPN was made with the favorable vote of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u87	She's wrong! It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u88	Corrigendum : If you prefer, the nationalization of BPN was viable with the PSD vote. But the PSD should not talk much about it, because most of the shareholders who were safe from the damage were frames of the PSD or close friends of the party. We well remember the way Steps Rabbit praised Loureiro Days : as a great businessman in our country. By the way, Dias Loureiro has been managing BPN and is responsible for all the damage that this Bank has brought to the country and that still explodes today in the public accounts! [[Congratulations from BE.]] The PSD should be very, very careful when talking about what BPN was and what is still in the public accounts. By the way, it is also important to remember that it was the PSD that sold BPN to the BIC or, better, offered BPN to the BIC and ran Parvalorem in a terrible way from that moment on. By the way, it is also important to remember that it was with the PSD vote that BANIF was sold to Santander. It was the PSD that enabled the sale of BANIF to Santander and that made it possible for the country to pay to sell BANIF! [[Congratulations from BE.]] Therefore, the PSD position is full of inconsistencies and in the long list of responsibilities that Mr Marco António Costa has come here to bring, perhaps, some of them are also missing from the New Bank. There is a temporary space that is failing in this discussion, as there are also responsibilities of the PSD and CDS in the New Bank. By the way, we're not talking about the passage from a private bank to the public. The New Bank is already in the public sector and already has 3900 million taxpayers' money, which were placed there by the PSD and the CDS. Therefore, it is not worth talking as if the PSD and CDS had no responsibility in the case. In addition, there are questions that must be answered: why did the Banco de Portugal say at the time that it had made an assessment of the assets and now it is calculated that money is missing in the New Bank? What is the government's supervision of the management of the New Bank? And now they answer me, please: why did Carlos Costa retrain in front of Banco de Portugal, which has already proved to be the most incompetent personality to manage the bank in Portugal? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations from BE.]] It is the responsibility of the PSD and the CDS to have renewed Carlos Costa in front of Banco de Portugal and Banco de Portugal also has responsibilities with regard to the New Bank. Mrs. Members of the PSD and CDS, who criticize the sale of BPN, in fact pay to sell BPN, what they come here to defend is exactly the same, but more, much more. What they defended here today was the surrender of the third largest bank in the country to an abutre fund. That's what they defended, no more, no less! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, please tell me: do you agree that 70% of the national bank is in foreign hands? Do you agree to sell the Portuguese bank to an abutre fund that will cut it, which will sell it, being little concerned with the interests of taxpayers, with the interests of companies or with the interests of the Portuguese economy? Does the dogmatic strength of the PSD and CDS prevent you from seeing the clearer and obvious solutions? Are they even available to sell badly the New Bank, which you put in the public sector, where they injected 3900 million knowing they weren't recoverable? Is the dogmatism of the PSD and CDS so far? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the position of the Block is political, yes, but it is very clear: we learn from the mistakes of the past.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u89	Doesn't look like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u90	The bank is too important to be in the hands of private agents, who just want to profit from the speculative credit business and if there is anything that the financial crisis has shown is that it makes no sense to be the state to socialize the losses, to be the state spending taxpayers' money to save the banks to then hand over these banks to the same agents who speculated and put them in bankruptcy and misery. It is the State's responsibility to defend the country. And to defend the country is to guarantee the nationality of the banking system, to guarantee the solidity of the banking system and to ensure that the credit system does not serve for negotiation, does not serve for sporadic and private interests, serves for the Portuguese economy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u91	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u92	Mr President, would you like to use the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u93	Mr President, to make an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u94	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u95	Mr President, through the Bureau, the results of the vote on the nationalisation process of BPN are distributed to all banks for the last time. I recall that, in the overall final vote, the Socialist Party voted in favour and all the other parties voted against. And Article 2 ( 1 ). in this legislative process there were only votes in favour of two parties: the Socialist Party and, as a matter of fact, the Left Block,... [[BE's protests.]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u96	...and the Communist Party voted against,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u97	You voted against that nationalization!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u98	...not because I wasn't against that nationalization but because I wanted everything nationalized. I didn't want it to be nationalized just BPN, I wanted it to be the entire SLN group! This is the historical truth. Once and for all, you don't repeat a lie, because more times they repeat it they won't be right. The Left Block, although ashamed of its sense of vote, voted in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u99	Mr, you are not making an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u100	Mrs Mariana Mortágua is ashamed of the way the Left Block voted in 2008, but the vote was in favour! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u101	Mr Luís Montenegro, you will allow me to make the following reparation: in the calls to the Bureau, you must address the Bureau rather than the Members. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u102	It was justified!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u103	Please send the document to the Bureau. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us proceed with the debate. Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: during the PSD, Mr Marco António Costa referred to the financial system and, in particular, to two banks. Mr Deputies, with regard to the alarm and the atoards that the PSD and the CDS have launched against the General Deposit Box, it is curious that they do so systematically to conceal your own responsibilities in the situation of the Box...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u105	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u106	... and that they always pass over the fact that they have not fulfilled a restructuring plan that they have submitted and have objectively contributed to decapitalize the Box, when they have made a false capitalisation with a loan that has caused Caixa to lose more money than itself to be capitalised. [[PCP applause.]] Therefore, Mr President, it was because they failed to comply with the restructuring plan that they promised that in some ways the Box is in the situation in which it is. In fact, much of the situation is due to that. On the New Bank, Mr Marco António Costa, we recall the words of the leaders of the PSD Government and the CDS, in particular those of Maria Luís Albuquerque, the Minister of Finance of then: « The taxpayers will necessarily receive their amount back. There is no risk in this loan. It will be reimbursed regardless of what happens and, moreover, « Whatever happens to the New Bank, the State will not be called upon to pay any damages. This has to be very clear».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u107	Take a good look!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u108	Today we are faced with a situation that is quite different and it is clear that the State will have to be called on to pay some of the losses of the New Bank. The question is what to do to react in a way that best protects the public interest. Mr Marco António Costa spoke about ruinous adventures. Ruined adventures? Mr President, the ruinous adventure was to give EUR 1100 million to the Banif owners, not asking for any accounts, let them do what they wanted and still hide the problem to the Portuguese to pretend that there was a clean exit. [[Congratulations from the PCP and PS MP João Galamba.]] Mr. Deputies, the ruinous adventure was not to capitalize on the Box, lend you money and still charge interest so that the Box would then be in trouble of capital to promote the private bank, which, yes, is the real love of the PSD. [[PCP applause.]] Mr Deputies, the ruinous adventure was to have put EUR 4900 million of the Portuguese in BES, saying that the Portuguese would not be called to pay anything, not to identify the recipients of the attacks made to BES that caused these losses — even greater losses — not to freeze the assets and assets of the bankers and their families to pay the losses they themselves caused. These, yes, Mr President, are ruinous adventures that place the country faced with the situation you are now in. [[PCP applause.]] The obsession between the PSD and the CDS, Mr Member, and unfortunately it is increasingly in view of your strategy of constant upheaval of everything that is public, it is not the defense of the financial system and much less the defense of the public bank ; on the contrary, it is the closed attack on the public nature of the bank, it is the constant defense of the private bank and the private that dominate the bank irrespective of, for example, the delivery of the New Bank to a private group to enable the State to face a situation where 60 % of the banking capital is in the hands of foreign entities, also abdicating any kind of control over that banking capital and the decisions that the bank can take. The gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS, acting against the public bank and against the New Bank, which is held by the public, are an obsession for the defense of the private who want to dominate the bank, are acting as authentic customer pledgeers for the private banks that in Portugal compete with Caixa and with the New Bank and which are, in fact, being deployed and losing liquidity every day that you throw the toads on the public bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u109	Atordas? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u110	The PCP is exactly on the opposite side. The gentlemen. Members bring customers to the private bank and the PCP defends what is public. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u111	For a second speech, Mr Marco António Costa has the floor, which has 23 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members :I leave only a few very quick notes. Both Mrs Mariana Mortágua and Mr Miguel Tiago in their speeches have used a language which is not appropriate for reality. We didn't put money in the New Bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u113	Don't you? Oh,
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u114	We just needed to hear this!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u115	No, Mr. João Galamba. We must be strict: the State has lent the Resolution Fund with the assumption that this money will be returned with interest, which is what happened during the redemption period. The money was made available by the troika to the financial system—about EUR 5000 million—was made available to the banks, and the banks returned that money by paying interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u116	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u117	BANIF and the New Bank have returned nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u118	Therefore, you have the responsibility to resolve this issue and to avoid losing that money.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u119	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u120	We know that there is an ideological obsession between the Left Block and the PCP: that of nationalizing the financial system. It is up to the PS to decide which side he wants to fall: if he wants to fall to that side or if he wants to fall to the side where he has always been in history. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u121	Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party wants to convince us that all the noise and all the misconceptions around this process are, after all, a negotiating strategy. So, on a negotiating strategy, we have to make clear the following: it is very different not to exclude nationalization from advocating nationalization by devaluing an asset that is wanted to sell.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u123	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u124	If it is not to exclude nationalisation, it would be enough for this to be quiet, because everyone knows that nationalization is always an option.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u125	Oh, is it? Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u126	The Socialist Party was not silent, he spoke — and how! — greatly damaging the process. On the management and negotiation of the Socialist Party on these matters, Portuguese remember and know that the Socialist Party has already sold and nationalized. When the Socialist Party sold the BANIF, it handed it in favor of Santander ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u127	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u128	... when he nationalized BPN, he significantly harmed taxpayers. With regard to what the Socialist Party has said today, I read what was said on 11 February 2009 : « The nationalization of BPN will not harm taxpayers ». Mr. João Galamba, what I said today was the same as Prime Minister José Socrates, on 11 February 2009. We know what happened and, therefore, we know what can happen! What we are making very clear today is that the CDS will do nothing to contribute to the Portuguese State, the Portuguese taxpayers being harmed because of this process. Like all Portuguese, we have memories of the incompetence of the Socialist Party to manage these processes. We leave the alert and we will not fail to monitor what you will do on behalf of the Portuguese taxpayers and to take responsibility for who has them, who has been incompetent in the past and seems to have learned nothing from that incompetentness. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u129	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP, as it has already announced, will bring to this House a draft resolution proposing precisely the nationalisation of the New Bank in very precise terms for discussion and vote. To conclude this debate, it is also useful to clarify the position of the CFP so that this confusion of concepts around the term 'nationalisation' does not cloud our ability to discern what is at issue. What the CDS has now used as an example, BPN, is precisely what it is defending to be done in the case of the New Bank and that is exactly what the PCP intends to avoid. Nationalization is intended to segregate and choose what makes sense nationalize and — leaving out what does not make sense nationalize to avoid, within possible, any integration of losses — to integrate into a public institution to be created with the nationalisation of the New Bank. It is intended exactly the opposite of what happened with BPN — as proposed by the CDS and PSD and, to some extent, PS — a nationalization that is not temporary or transitional or with a view to valuing the asset for sale. The fake nationalization of BPN was this, it was a temporary nationalization with a view to its sale, and the State and Portuguese, still today, are paying for this false nationalization, to which the CDS today is afraid to call « nationalization», knowing perfectly that what it now proposes for the New Bank is an exactly equal false nationalization, i.e.,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u131	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u132	...that the Resolution Fund has absorbed the costs of BES to then sell, the same is to say a temporary nationalization to then sell. Finally, Mr. President and Mr. Members, a nationalization that also goes beyond budgetary and accounting issues does not only look at the value of the asset that it is possible to sell, it also sees in that asset a tool and an instrument of sovereignty, financial sovereignty, economic sovereignty, political sovereignty for Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u133	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u134	A decision which will certainly involve confrontation with the rules and dogmas which the institutions and the European Union continue to impose on States and which, in particular, lead to the banking concentration which from the point of view of the CFP should be combated with all efforts. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u135	The last intervention in this debate is by Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u136	Mr. President and Mr. Members, PSD and CDS managed to perform the miracle of transformation: they brought two banks to the public sector, injected 4600 million euros of taxpayers in these two banks and tried to convince the country that this was a good business,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u137	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u138	...saying that this time neither the banks were in the public sector nor this money was from the taxpayers and that it would even profit. We have seen the profit that Banif gave: it gave a result of EUR 2000 million of the taxpayers to add to those who were already there. And we also saw the good result you have had in the case of the New Bank because, Mr. Members, the EUR 3900 million would only be returned in two ways: either the bank was sold and that was answered or, then, the banks paid. But it was also during the PSD/CDS government's mandate that you realized that you could not sell the bank, because you tried to sell it and didn't succeed. We remember that! It was also during the PSD/CDS mandate that banks' loan to the Resolution Fund began to be negotiated for a period of 20 years, i.e., never again! So both PSD and CDS knew perfectly that the EUR 3900 million...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u139	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u140	... that were injected into the New Bank was public money, just as the New Bank is today in the public sphere. The only question we have to ask is: since we pay, do we want to control the bank or do we want to sell it to an abutre fund? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u141	Mrs. Members, the current debate under Article 72 ( 10 ) is closed. the Rules of Procedure. We will move on to the political statements, which can only be made, as Mr President has explained, by the parties that have not been required by the current debate. Thus, for a political declaration, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Less than two months ago, more precisely on 16 November last year, Mr Prime Minister said that — and I quote: « It is very likely that during 2017 the markets themselves will adjust the cost of our debt to values that are more compatible with the country's economic reality ». The Prime Minister then considered, two months ago, according to the social communication, that Brussels had given a vote of confidence to government policies and that he hoped to see this vote translated into a reduction in public debt interest. Sadly, it seems that the opposite has happened. Yesterday, we learned that the state, that is, that we are all going to have to pay interest of about 4, 2 % for a loan of EUR 3000 million to 10 years, in a union operation by a set of three international banks. It is the highest cost of financing since February 2014 when we still had the troika. It is a sign that can't, nor should, pass by those who seem to have to put their head in the sand and pretend that they perceive nothing. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u143	Preventively, of course, Mr. Minister for Finance had already said the opposite of what Mr. Prime Minister said. Minister Mário Centeno said on 10 January this year, explaining the rise in interest rates of the Portuguese sovereign debt: « We obviously see this rise as temporary, associated with very specific factors of uncertainty (outside) and low market liquidity (end of year) ». That is to say, and translating for everyone to realize, after all, the evolution of the interest rates of our debt has nothing to do with government policies and much less with confidence in their policies. in this matter, the majority that supports the government varies between two narratives, as it is now common to say: when it seems that there is, there will be or can be good news, then it is because international institutions, markets, investors, all have a lot of confidence in government policies and are taking into account the economic reality of the country; when interest comes up, then the responsibility is, of course, of the international environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u144	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u145	It is a strange version of financial fatalism that looks at Portugal as an absolutely impotent country in the face of the greed or luck of the markets and that nothing can do but keep on indebteding a little more every year. I wonder if it would not at least be reasonable to start discussing this issue of public debt with the assumption that, yes, what is happening in the rest of the world and, above all, in the euro area, has an impact on the conditions under which Portugal is financed, as obviously also has an impact on the government's work and the direction that the country takes at every moment. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u146	Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Discussions on debts, interest rates and costs are often unintelligible and leave the idea that these matters have no importance or, at least, no concrete effect on Portuguese life. This couldn't be less true. Right now at the start, because the debt we make today has a very concrete impact on interest expenditure, then on the taxes we pay today, but also because it inevitably determines the taxes we pay in the future, not only us but also the taxpayers who have not even been born.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u147	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u148	Since this new majority came to power, gross public debt has increased by more than EUR 10 billion and has increased from 129 % of GDP to 133 %. It is more than 1000 € of debt for each Portuguese. The interest we are going to pay for yesterday's issue, for example, may even seem a very financial or very technical problem, but we are talking about EUR 120 million. It pays more than half of the reduction in the over-tax, which the Government has called for phase-out, and more than two thirds of the pension update. If we compare them, for example, with the interest that we would have paid for exactly the same money a year ago, in which the interest rate was lower, we will pay more than 40 million euros. It's more money, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, of what the Government considers to have cost, for example, the replacement of 35 hours a week in public service. They will say, I am sure: "Oh, no, but interest rates increase everywhere, especially in peripheral countries! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” But the question, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is that they have increased more, and much more, in Portugal. This is because the risks of government policy have a direct effect on what we pay taxes to cost interest. We will make a very simple account and obviously quite simplified because we can count on what could be rather than what is always a simplification. But we will make the following comparison and the following reasoning: in October 2015 the Portuguese spread, in the face of the German bonds, was around 1, 8 %, i.e. the difference, what we paid the most against the German debt; yesterday, 11 January, this spread was in the 3, 7 %, i.e. there was an increase of 1, 9 percentage points, which is directly attributable to the perception of the country's risk. If we apply this value to the debt that at least has to be issued this year, according to what is included in the State budget, EUR 43 billion, we have a global cost of EUR 800 million—we know that it is not all to pay this year, but they are indelibly to pay—which represents EUR 80 per Portuguese, which would result in four reductions in the surcharge. This is the cost of the risks your choices have brought to Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u149	Mrs. Deputy, you're gonna have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u150	Of course, Mr. President. I shall finish by saying that I am sure that the PS will simply say that all this was a coincidence and that the PCP and BE will say that obviously it is necessary to restructure, like euphemism, to simply not pay. They are still going in time to be responsible and at least to try to solve the problem rather than systematically aggravate it. [[Congrats from the CDS and PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u151	Mrs Cecilia Meireles, four Mrs have signed up. Ladies and gentlemen, request clarification. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u152	One by one, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u153	Of course, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Eurico Brillante Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u154	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, the topic that the CDS brings to plenary is certainly a very relevant subject, but the way the CDS presents it has, let me tell you, an original sin: the CDS assigns to this Government the fact that interest rates, within a time horizon of 10 years, are increasing and compares with the situation of a year ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u155	That's not what was said!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u156	Mrs Deputy, I give you just one example: in 2016, we had a State budget with a goal of the deficit met; for four years we had four Budgets and eight corrections and in none of the original budgets the deficit was met. [[That's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u157	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u158	Public debt this year increases, also due to financial sector problems, but public debt over the last four years has increased much, but much more substantially. If we continue to discuss debt focused solely on the circumstances of internal policy, even more so with a government that has achieved deficit, debt, unemployment — and even economic growth is accelerating — we will certainly not tackle the underlying problem. I therefore have to leave the question to you, Mrs Debt, knowing the nature of the ECB's intervention, particularly in secondary debt markets, knowing the restrictions imposed by the intervention model, does she not think that - despite all the strict compliance with the rules of the Stability and Growth Pact with respect to debt control and deficit - is it precisely the fact that the ECB's intervention design is reaching its limit which, here, not only leads us to point to the ECB, this form of intervention, as the great cause of this increase in debt, and also to say that it is necessary to change the ECB's policy in order to continue to reduce the burden of debt in our State budget? It was more serious and we were certainly closer to the truth and, being closer to the truth, we were closer to solving the problem. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u159	In reply, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u160	Mr President, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias, I begin by thanking you for the question you have put to me and telling you that I have listened very carefully to your argument. However, I'm sorry I have to say, although good,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u161	Thank you!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u162	...it's not for my intervention. He said « his intervention has an original sin, it is solely responsible for the government. » Now, I did not, I even took care not to do so and to say that a serious discussion on this subject had to be based on the assumption that, yes, there is a upward movement of interest rates.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u163	The same can't be said of the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u164	Tell me then, Mr Commissioner, as you explain, because I have repeatedly heard in recent days saying 'this happens in all peripheral countries' —,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u165	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u166	... for example, that the Irish debt interest rate is now lower than it was in December 2015,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u167	There's less exposure to the market!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u168	... or that the interest rate of Spain is also lower than it was in December 2015, while for Portugal that same interest rate is today higher than it was a year ago. Mr President, are these countries not also peripheral? Oh, my God! Have you not experienced difficulties in these countries too? Oh, my God! Don't you have any difficulties with these countries too? Oh, my God! Aren't these countries also in the euro area? Oh, my God! Is there not also for them the European Central Bank? Oh, my God! [[PS Member Protests Eurico Brilliant Dias.]] Is it not that some choices—and the risks that these choices bring—are perceived and are made to pay, or, on the other hand, make us all pay? It is the heart of socialism that you practice to make us all pay for your choices.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u169	in the worst version.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u170	Mr. Deputies, there is a fundamental alternative here. We can look at the situation in Portugal and say: "We can't strictly do anything, if things go wrong it was random, if they run well it was luck. » It is a little limited vision of the action of a government and particularly worrying in a party that supports it, but it seems, in any case, to be the vision of the Socialist Party. Would it not be more sensible to realize that we can at least be cautious and be careful of what can happen to us and realize that, yes, there are markets, that there are consequences for our attitudes and, as such, act accordingly?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u171	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u172	Of course, Mr. President. Ask the honourable Member whether it would not be better to focus on the ECB. Well, I think it was important to focus on the ECB, but it was also important for the government to start focusing a little on what it can do and stop indebteding, now more than not, to fulfill what it promised in the election campaign. If that were the case, last year's debt would have been smaller and not greater, as indeed it was. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u173	Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u174	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, I welcome and greet the CDS on the subject that it brought, in particular by alerting the Portuguese to what is happening. We often have the feeling that people are outside reality and, therefore, it is essential that people realize the drama that is happening. This increase in the interest rates on the issue that was made yesterday, a year ago, for the same period, means an increase in the invoice, which the Portuguese will pay by EUR 400 million during this period. It is EUR 400 million more in taxes that the Portuguese will have to pay to cover this increase in the interest rate, and this took place in Portugal more than in any other country. And we know that then this happens to companies, to the financial system, to families. We're all gonna pay more. Of course this happens, but there are those who say, as we have already heard: "But it happens to everyone! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Liar! Lies and lies, three times lie! If we look at three countries, Portugal, Spain and Ireland, and see what interest it was for the same period, 10 years, 11 January 2016 and 11 January 2017, we find that : for Spain, it was one year to 1, 7 % and today is 1, 5 % ; for Ireland, it was 1, 026 % and now it is 0, 916 % less pay less ;... [[Well, well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u175	...to Portugal, was 2, 63 % and increased to 4, 03 % plus. So don't come to tell us that this happens to everyone. No, it happens more to Portugal. And if it happens more to Portugal, Mrs Deputies, I have to ask the question: is that the internal environment, the wrong guidelines of budgetary policy, the perception that our creditors have of those who are the errors of management, the fall in investment...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u176	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u177	... and the fall in economic growth towards 2015, aren't they the great ones responsible for this interest increase? for the bill we're all gonna pay? Unfortunately, this only shows the disorientation of the Socialist Party, because, as we have seen a few years ago, it seems that nothing has to do with it, which is only later, when, unfortunately, the bill falls on us all, on the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u178	In reply, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u179	Mr President, I begin by thanking Mr Duarte Pacheco for the question he has raised and saying that he is indeed right when he says that this is not happening to everyone, it is not happening to all countries. And no, it is not happening the same way it is happening in Portugal, not even in all the peripheral countries of the euro area. It's a falsity often repeated. I give you a number, Mr, which seems to me particularly impressive: what was written for the public debt of 2016 was 124% and what we know so far is that it is about 133%. to what we know, it increased in 2015 from 129 % of GDP ( gross domestic product ), which is a high value to 133 % of GDP in 2016. It's hard not to understand and not realize that this isn't just numbers, because there's a little bit left the idea that this is something that's written there... Besides, I often hear discussions that seem curious, like, for example: "Oh, but this doesn't go to the deficit, it goes to debt! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” They say it as if it had no consequences whatsoever, as if there were some kind of bottomless bag without any consequences where you could go for money to cost the decisions that are made. This money has a price: first, it is to pay and second, it has a price that we pay every year in interest. Mr President, I think that there is only one thing worse than making decisions and then leaving the taxpayer's account to pay is to make decisions and leave the account to the taxpayer who has not even been born, and that is why you have no right to choose, to pay.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u180	Is this a CDS contributory act? It looks good on you!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u181	It is a task that the younger generations do not deserve. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] No, Mr. Member, the CDS, fortunately, was part of a government, and with pride, which in many ways slowed the rate of growth of public debt. What is important, not for the CDS but for Portugal, is that the rate of growth is slowing down and debt decreases, because that is how the problem is solved. More important than any other discussion is to realize that it should decrease. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u182	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u183	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, the Government of which Mrs Meireles was a member has left the biggest bill for future generations and has even seen it greater than that of this Government. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs Cecilia cannot ignore, it cannot be ignored, that the widespread decline in public debt interest in secondary markets was largely due to the expansionist policy of the European Central Bank when buying debt in secondary markets. The honourable Member cannot ignore that this expansionist policy aimed, among other things, at trying to increase inflation and combat stagnation in Europe accompanied by the Fed ( Federal Reserve System ) of the United States of America. The honourable Member cannot ignore that the increase in the price of oil has led to an increase in inflation and that the prospects for increased inflation have led markets to have a reduction in expansionist policies, which, in turn, causes markets to 'burden' in the interests of peripheral countries. in the same way, the fact that there is more employment in the United States and that Fed is expected to rise for the second time the direct interest rate also contributes to the increase of interest in peripheral countries. The gentlemen. Members have said here that there is no reason to explain the difference between peripherals and Portugal, but the problem is that there is. The gentlemen. Members will certainly know that the European Central Bank's purchasing programme is in accordance with country quotas. There are countries that are close to the quota, which have to do with their share in the European Central Bank — a larger country has a higher share, a smaller country has a smaller share — and that is what Portugal is almost reaching. while realizing that hundreds of millions of euros are missing to reach this quota, the markets "charge" in the interest of the peripheral countries of the euro area. This analysis, which seems so strange to you and which causes so much disturbance, is the analysis that is present in all international finance newspapers. All of them! No talk of political instability, no talk of economic growth issues, no talk of debt issues, no talk of the issue of the European Central Bank's purchasing programme. We are talking about billions of euros that have the power to influence the market, and the explanation for the divergence in the Portuguese debt vis-à-vis Ireland and Spain is the fact that Portugal is approaching its share in the European Central Bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u184	Mrs. Deputy, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u185	Mr President, instead of using market pressures against democracy and the democratic choices of a government, I think the question should be whether we should subject national democracies to the pressure on financial markets. And the CDS knows that, because the debt interest never increased so much when, democratically and freely, Paulo Portas decided to resign from the PSD/CDS government. [[That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u186	Don't look at me!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u187	That was the decision that led to an increase in interest. The question we have to ask is whether we are willing to subject our democracies...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u188	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u189	... the over-determination of financial markets or whether we want to think of a model of monetary and financial management that can safeguard us and safeguard democratic decisions of the interests of financial markets. I think that, yes, is a reflection that would be worth spending. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u190	In reply, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u191	Mr President, I thank Mrs Mariana Mortágua for her questions. With regard to the contribution made by the previous Government to the exacerbation of public debt, which the honourable Member says was the greatest in all history, is that what she said? — I would like to recall the following: in 2005 the public debt was 67 %,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u192	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u193	... in 2011, it was 111, 4 %, which corresponds to an increase of 44 percentage points in six years.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u194	It's doing the math.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u195	In 2011, I repeat, it was 111 % and when the previous government left it was 129 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u196	It's good to count the years.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u197	I am sure that the PS greatly appreciates this whitening of its government past,... [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u198	... but they are quite effective to do so and will certainly not need the help of Mrs. However, I must say, she was even committed to all the facts and all the figures.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u199	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u200	Finally, power has its own costs and sometimes the truth seems to be one of them.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u201	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u202	Are you going to make any confessions?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u203	No, Mr President, I am commenting on Mrs Mariana Mortágua's speech, but I will certainly be very pleased to answer your question, if you have at all something to ask me. In any case, the honourable Member has been responsible for this increase of all kinds of institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u204	No, no! It was just one!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u205	It was the ECB, it was inflation, it was the environment, it was the institutions, it was job creation, it was everything! Well, all the less your own action, which, in a party supporting the government, does not cease to be curious, Mrs Deputy. I did not deny, and even made the point of stressing, that obviously everything that happens in the world, and in particular in the euro area the action of the ECB, does indeed have an impact on interest. But should I not, above all, ask a party that supports and enables the government to focus on what it can do to protect the country from the bad effects of these policies, rather than systematically leaving the country most vulnerable to these impacts? I would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, that the fact that the parties that are part of the coalition that supports the government are systematically saying that they defend the non-payment of debt and the « we do not pay»,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u206	That's right! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u207	...when we borrow money again, won't it mean who's going to lend us money think it's a little bit more risky? Look, maybe, maybe it is! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u208	About the resignation of Paulo Portas, nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u209	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Paulo Sá.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u210	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has long talked about the problem of public debt, which is a very serious problem. I ask you, Madam Member : what is the solution of the CDS to this problem? What is your solution? [[CDS-PP protests.]] But, notice, Mrs. Member, that this is a rhetorical question, because we know, Portuguese know very well, what was the answer that the PSD and CDS gave between 2011 and 2015 to the serious problem of public debt. How did they deal with this problem? They ensured that the creditors, the speculators, the gamblers received the interest up to the last penny, at any cost. And to achieve this goal they cut wages, cut pensions, cut social benefits, privatized strategic public enterprises, degraded the social functions of the State in health, education and social security, brutally increased taxes on labour income and consumption. This was the answer that the CDS and also the PSD gave to the serious problem of public debt: transferring EUR 8 billion per year from the pockets of workers, families, pensioners, micro and small entrepreneurs to the big capital, national and foreign pockets. You have not solved any problem, because debt and debt interest have continued to increase and today we are still vulnerable to speculative attacks on the financial markets.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u211	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u212	The CFP has already presented a real solution to the problem of public debt: its renegotiation in interest, time and amount. A renegotiation at the service of national interests, which significantly reduces the amount of interest paid annually, releasing billions of euros for productive investment, which supports economic growth and job creation, for the enhancement of labour and workers, for the improvement of the National Health Service and the public school. And what did the CDS, Mrs Deputy, in response to this proposal from the CFP, do in response to the public debt problem? He's always voted against! Always, Mrs. Deputy! So the political statement that you have made here today, on the problem of public debt, is a deep hypocrisy. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] The CDS is not interested in solving the public debt problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u213	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u214	I will finish, Mr. President. in reality, the CDS, if possible, would use the problem of public debt, which is a serious and real problem, to impose the return to the policy of exploitation and impoverishment... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u215	... that you, along with the PSD, have carried out in the recent past. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u216	What about TSU? Oh, my God! Tell me what it's gonna be like!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u217	In response to this last request for clarification, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u218	Mr President, Mr Paulo Sá, I begin by thanking you for the questions you have asked and telling you that, after listening to you, I was in doubt. You must have been away last year. He was not here in the last year because he moved directly from the last government to the CFP proposal without taking into account this year, in which he was making a government viable. The honourable Member is responsible for the policies of this government! Open... [[Yeah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u219	The honourable Member is responsible for each Portuguese owes more than 1000 € this year than it should last year.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u220	What is your solution? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u221	What does the CDS have to solve this problem? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u222	It is your responsibility and it is for that responsibility that you will have to answer. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] Ask me what the solution is, I say to you: it is from now on, Mr President, not to aggravate the problem, which is precisely what has been done, with your support, in the last year.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u223	But what is the solution? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u224	You see, the honourable Member says that interest has continued to increase all the time that we were in the government. It's completely false,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u225	False? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u226	...and, of course, you don't know him! It's completely false!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u227	False? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u228	It is not true that interest has always continued to increase throughout the time we were in the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u229	Just look at all the graphics, it's always going up!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u230	It is true, yes, that by the action of the previous Government, both the maturity of our debt and the interest we paid for it were renegotiated, in order to have more time and less interest. On the contrary, you speak, you speak, you speak, but the government that you support has not been able to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u231	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u232	This is the truth! It may cost you, but it's the truth! Earlier, he said: "Oh, but that is not enough! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Now it seems that you do not do anything strictly unless you owe yourself to us more and more all the time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u233	But what is the solution? Oh, my God! We have a solution! What about the gentlemen? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u234	Finally, Mr President, telling you that, for those who make accusations of hypocrisy, come to say that they simply do not want to pay what is due and at the same time support a government that will ask for more and more money borrowed, the best thing is to keep these accusations of hypocrisy for the sessions of self-criticism in your party. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u235	For a political statement, you now have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u236	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It will be a brief political statement, because, as you well remember, Members and Members of Parliament. Members, last week or at least in the last period of political declarations, The Greens presented here a political statement on the subject of Almaraz. It happens that, in the face of the events, the Greens feel that today the Assembly of the Republic should not be silent about what is happening and should follow the matter in detail. Of course, as you well remember, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in view of the possibility of construction of a nuclear waste landfill announced by the Spanish Government to serve the Almaraz nuclear power plant, the Portuguese Government has not had or been found in this matter. And, in view of the obvious transboundary impacts of such a work, located at few kilometres from the Portuguese border, and also the way the Almaraz nuclear power plant uses the Tejo River for its operation, it would be unthinkable to think of a project of this nature without the Portuguese Government being also involved in the decision of this project. As it was from public knowledge, the Minister for the Environment, having the opportunity to meet with his Spanish counterpart just today, put the possibility of not going to that meeting, since the construction of this warehouse would have been decided. I would like to say here that the Greens pressured the Government, particularly at a meeting with the Minister of the Environment, to be present at that meeting. We considered it important that the Portuguese Government, face to face with face with the Spanish Government, could loyally say what it understands about this whole process. The meeting, however, took place and of what is known, not of the details but of what has come to the public, the result of this meeting is that there has indeed been no understanding between the Portuguese Government and the Spanish Government. What is clear is that the Spanish Government believes that since December last year the building of the warehouse has been decided, and there is a license for that purpose. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what the Greens understand, in view of what the Government has announced, is that if we consider it absolutely indecent — that is how we qualify in the last political statement — the fact that the Spanish Government has completely ignored the Portuguese Government in this process, it is even a challenge to start building this landfill for nuclear waste for the service of the nuclear power plant in Almaraz. We would consider it to be a real face-to-face by the Spanish Government. The Portuguese Government has announced, however, that it will make a complaint to Brussels, since it believes that environmental impact assessment standards have been violated. in this regard, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we consider the vote of condemnation which has been unanimously signed and approved by the Assembly of the Republic to be of paramount importance because we believe that the position of this sovereignty body can give more strength to the complaint that the Portuguese Government intends to make with Brussels. But with regard to the Portuguese Government, we need to know more. We don't just want the government to move to be heard—it's not enough! — we want you to also participate in the decision-making process. That's what we understand! The environmental impact assessment is precisely for this, it is not a proforma for the government to be heard, it is for it to participate effectively in this decision, because the cross-border impacts so force it. More: we want to know exactly what the Portuguese Government is going to defend in this regard and we believe that the defence can be no other than the interests of the Portuguese. And the defence of the interests of the Portuguese is to be totally against the construction of this nuclear waste store in Almaraz and to achieve the closure of the Almaraz nuclear power plant, so that the extension of the operation of a totally obsolete nuclear power plant does not occur. It is to make it never work beyond 2020! Ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is precisely on these issues and their details that we will surely want to hear from the Environment Minister next day 24, since at the initiative of the Greens the Minister will be in the Committee on the Environment to provide clarification on this matter. I would also like to move forward here, to the Members and to the Members. Members, that the Greens will be present today in the concentration with the Spanish Consulate against the operation of the Almaraz nuclear power plant and the construction of the nuclear waste warehouse. We believe that the mobilization of Portuguese, at all levels, is fundamental in this matter. We in Portugal were able to say « no » to nuclear in the 1970s, with the threat of construction of a nuclear power plant in Ferrel, and then when other threats came to the fire, with proposals from large economic operators, appetite is great! - But the Portuguese have always been able to fight...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u237	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u238	I thought it would be brief... [[Laughing.]] Look at this, Mr. President! But, in fact, the matter has to be told. I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, we Portuguese have always said 'no' to nuclear and we defend our environment and the safety of our peoples and territory, we cannot indeed remain silent, impatience and serene before this issue. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u239	Mrs. Heloísa Apollonia, I confess that I really believed in you, but finally... [[Laughing.]] Madam Member, the Bureau shall record five entries for requests for clarification. How do you want to respond, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u240	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u241	So you have the floor, first of all, Mr Telmo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u242	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, first of all, I would like to say to you that, of course, and it is no novelty — we have already had an opportunity to talk to you here on this matter — on the substance of the matter, we agree. Moreover, I believe that it will be difficult to find a Portuguese in this area which, in relation to the matter of substance, does not agree with you and with us. however, this does not solve the problem, which we know what it is, and we are actually talking about the extension of the operation of a nuclear power plant, which will reach 40 years, over the last 20 years. We are talking about two reactors which, even above and it is important to remember, have accumulated incidents — I think they were all seven incidents, the last being reported as a category 1 incident, that is, an incident with gravity. We are talking about a central town that is just over 100 km from the Portuguese border, using for its cooling the Tejo River, the importance of which for us, Portuguese, and much more in this city of Lisbon, we refrain from explaining, so this is a great risk to Portugal. In other words, Portugal supports the risks, but does not take any of the benefits of the existence of this plant. This is the problem with which we are confronted and our position, unanimously, must be that, obviously, the power plant must not exceed its normal life span and this warehouse, this landfill, this deposit— whatever name it is used—should not be built.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u243	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u244	So, this way, we all agree. It is clear that the Spanish Government has an interest in prolonging the existence of this power plant. The investment is made, the expenditure is made, at the moment it is essentially revenue and, therefore, it may have interest, but there are risks that have to be weighed. The question on which we can disagree, Mrs Deputies, and for the benefit of the debate, is what has been the Portuguese act, in particular the action of the Portuguese Government. The truth is that the Minister for the Environment began by saying, within the Commission, that the Spanish Government was dealing with the matter and was not worrying at all.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u245	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u246	I will finish, Mr. President. Therefore, the Minister for the Environment has come late in this matter. Then Mr. Minister said he wasn't going to the meeting today, but he went to the meeting. The question is as simple as this: we can condemn the position of the Spanish Government, but we need to know whether the Portuguese Government is capable of leading this matter or not, because such a matter, as happened in the past with the Douro, depends on the ability to protest the Portuguese...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u247	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u248	... and the leadership capacity of the government. And the government's leadership capacity, in our opinion, is insufficient. You tell the honourable Member that Mr Minister comes here on 24th, I even think he should come before and, if necessary, should come to this plenary, because this debate cannot be forgotten, it is a debate of national interest. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr. President. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u249	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u250	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, indeed, this problem that today, again, is far from being new, and it is unfortunate that memory attracts some of those who speak, as happened to Mr Telmo Correia. The honourable Member is part of a party that was a government in the previous term, Almaraz has come by far and we do not realize the great effort that has been made to resolve the problem. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u251	however, when I heard him speak, it all started yesterday, when the socialist government took possession. That is why I also want to say that the Socialist Government is not shy about this. Don't! The Socialist Government is clear and, when the Minister of hesitation here accuses himself of going to the meeting with his Spanish counterpart, he was already anticipating the outcome of the meeting.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u252	And get out of there, you desert!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u253	It was unfortunate that the Spanish Government, who had said that the matter was not closed, had not given the correct information because the matter was even closed. therefore that the result of another attempt by the Portuguese Government, with the Spanish Government, to stop what is a decision to build the nuclear warehouse in Almaraz, has proved virtually null. That is why, at the moment, what the Government is going to do, as mentioned here by Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, who is to lodge a complaint in Brussels over the next few days, is in fact the way to be followed. I am walking along with the unanimous support of the Members who have sat in this plenary. This has recently been reflected in the unanimous approval of a conviction vote in relation to the construction of a nuclear waste storage plant in Almaraz, and also in the declarations that are being made here and others that will, however, come.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u254	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u255	Finally, Mr President, saying that in the last news that each of us has just received is good news: Brussels, already aware of the Portuguese Government's intention to file a complaint against the Spanish Government, says that « security always comes first », quoted the European Union Environment Spokesman, Enrico Brivio. Let's hope so. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u256	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Berta Cabral.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u257	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I welcome you once again to bring this issue to the House, as in fact you have already done many times all the parliamentary groups, and on this statement I would like to leave three notes. The first note is that there is no doubt that the Government has been negligent in the management of this dossier, of this matter, on Almaraz, and was negligent because it did not give due importance to the issue, in time and time. This is because the main issue is even the nuclear power plant, it is not the warehouse. And that is the issue that must concern us here in the Assembly of the Republic in order not to divert the focus from our attention, because not only did the government give importance as the resolution of this House rejected, which said, exactly, that it should take all the necessary steps to close the power station, which ended the extension period that has been given. But the government was not proactive in this matter, ignored, amushed and then decided to go to the meeting. But all this is lateral, all this has to do with building the warehouse. What we want here is that the main issue is discussed, and the discussion is the future of the Almaraz nuclear power plant, which, according to the PSD, and it is very clear that it should close at the end of the deadline. The second note, which I would like to make very clear, is that the real reason for building the warehouse is precisely to create conditions for extending the operation of the power plant, and that we cannot afford.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u258	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u259	The third note has to do with what the government thinks. How does the Prime Minister, from a political point of view, feel about the functioning of the Almaraz plant? It is that we do not know the political position of the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u260	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u261	If the Greens and the parties that support the government know her, I'd like you to say that in the -that they transmit her,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u262	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u263	... because I do not know a single official political statement to say what the government wants, what the future is for the power plant, whether it is to allow the deadline to be extended or whether it has ended by 2020. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u264	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u265	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I would like to congratulate you once again on the issue you brought to the Assembly of the Republic, taking into account recent developments in the situation of the nuclear power plant in Almaraz, which we have all heard today, already following the outcome of the meeting between the Government of Portugal and the Government of Spain. We regret that it has not been possible at this meeting to arrive at a result that would meet the interests of our country, that it would meet the interests of our people, particularly with regard to the safety of our population. The CFP Parliamentary Group has expressed concern about the operation of this power plant, particular concerns regarding not only environmental issues but, above all, the safety of the population and the interests of our country. We have come to defend the need of the Portuguese Government to take all the measures, all the demands, to do everything within its reach, taking into account not only the aspects specified in international law but also everything within its reach, in the defence of national interests and in the protection of the security of the population. This power plant has had numerous accidents, there are several security issues. And, of course, the Portuguese Government, in the context of not only of non-interference and respect for sovereignty but also of the respect and safeguard of our own sovereignty, cannot let that happen clearly and, of course, these decisions, which are currently being taken, could not have been taken without our Government being involved and without the assessment of the impacts of these decisions on our territory, on our population, also been considered. That is why we are fighting and we believe that the government must fight with all its means. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u266	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Jorge Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u267	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I would like to congratulate her on the topic she raises and on the current event that she has today, on the day of the demonstration that takes place with the Spanish consulate against the prolongation of the life of the nuclear power plant in Almaraz. I would also like to say that it is always curious to find this urgency and this cry from the parliamentary groups that have been in government for four years and that, over the past 30 years, have never taken the issue of Almaraz seriously. [[PSD protests.]] This radicality with which they came to the subject is to welcome, because the problem is serious, and it is good terms at the end of the useful life of the Almaraz Central with such a strong consensus in this Assembly of the Republic. [[PSD protests.]] It was unfortunate that this consensus had not existed over many years, as evidenced by the fact that we were still in 2017 without an emergency program and a strategic and civil protection plan for the event of a radioactive accident, which civil protection itself identifies as a risk. If we arrive in 2017 without a plan to answer it is because these parties have long opted for a committed silence. Secondly, I would like to make a clarification which I think will be useful at this time. The beneficiaries of the continuity of the Almaraz nuclear power plant are neither the State nor the Spanish energy consumers, they are Endesa, Iberdrola and Union Fenosa, these are the private shareholders of that power plant. [[PSD protests.]] Today, these companies have an important role in Portugal and must be the interlocutors of the Portuguese Government when this question is put and debated. It is good to stress here that it is not from the state the nuclear power station in Almaraz, it is granted to these three actors. Almaraz is also not a problem, as I say, of Spanish energy policy, it is a problem of security for the populations on both sides of the border, it is a public health problem for Portugal and it is an environmental problem and contamination of ecosystems, starting with the Tejo, and on this it is not worth saying much more. [[PSD protests.]] Therefore, the position of the Spanish Government in this context, the position of the Spanish PP Government in this context, is of hostility and concealment, unacceptable to a friendly country, as is Portugal in this context. And it is from this point of view that the action of the Government must be scrutinized from here on. It is very important to assess the cross-border environmental impact that includes public consultation, which allows popular participation, and therefore to allow a wide-ranging public debate in Portugal, and we hope that at that time the commitment of all political forces will be heard.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u268	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u269	But more than the issue of environmental impact assessment—and I conclude by that, Mr President—it is about knowing exactly what the government is aiming for, and the government must respond to that. The Assembly of the Republic has preceded the Government on this issue, it has been more proactive and more efficient than the Government has been in dealing with the urgent issues that this issue raises at the moment. Therefore, today, the Government must explain to Parliament what its objective is, as mentioned above, the aim of the Portuguese Government, in terms of the results for the population in Portugal, which must be the closure of the Almaraz nuclear power plant.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u270	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u271	The Government must also explain to Parliament the diplomatic strategy and the political strategy that will, diplomatically, bilaterally and within the European framework, in order to solve this problem to the satisfaction of the people and our national security. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u272	In response to requests for clarification, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u273	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your remarks. Members Telmo Correia, Maria da Luz Rosinha, Berta Cabral, Paula Santos and Jorge Costa. I would like to make a few final considerations, taking into account what has been said. As regards the date of Mr. Minister's coming, what the Greens asked in the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing was the urgency of Mr. Minister's coming and, taking into account his timetable and the availability of meetings, was marked on 24 January. I hope that this meeting will, indeed, be productive in the dialogue between the parliamentary groups and the government, that we can get clarification and even, because it is not — and that is also our duty — to give some lines of what is our thought and our attitude to what the government should now be doing in this regard. I understand, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the question that the PSD has raised with great vehement concern about the need to hear from the government about the closure of the Almaraz nuclear power plant. There is indeed urgency in this matter and it is a very well asked question, and I am only sorry that I have never heard Mrs Berta Cabral raise her voice in this way and with this vehemence and determination in the previous government, which has been silent, and very quiet, on this matter!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u274	I don't remember!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u275	No, you don't remember, Mrs. Member...! It was an absolute passivity! The former government has been totally passive in this matter!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u276	Exactly! [[Protests by PSD Members Berta Cabral and Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u277	Madam Member, the question that we should take into account is that what is planned later for the future also has to do with this passivity of the past. Let's imagine that the previous government had not been passive or that this government had been proactive at the right time, sooner or later,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u278	Oh, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u279	... very likely we would not have come to this outcome, that we should face a fact that is practically finished and that, eventually, we can have open doors for diplomacy, as mentioned here, different and more effectively. Does this mean what? That the attitude of governments at the right time is a relevant issue and the Portuguese should take this into account. And the right moment would also have been the one where the previous government had done anything and if it had moved to anything.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u280	Leave the previous government there!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u281	I would also like to elucidate or perhaps draw attention to the following: the normal life span of this nuclear power plant would be 2010. In other words, take into account that the deadline has already been extended to 2020! The question now is the possibility or desire of the Spanish Government to extend further, because, as Mr President said, there are economic interests which are overshadowed by the environmental interests and the security interests of the people and the territory. And, in fact, it is at this time when we think and discuss sustainable development, which, in the face of concrete projects, must be taken very concretely. And here's what's at stake? Is it to defend the people or to defend the interests of Endesa and Iberdrola? The Greens have absolutely no doubt about their position and, of course, what the Portuguese Government's position on this matter should be. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u282	For the last political statement of the afternoon, Mrs Elza Pais has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u283	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Complying with the legacy of Mário Soares is continuing to fight for freedom, democracy and equality. It was in his term, as Prime Minister, in 1977, that the then Commission on the Status of Women, today the Committee on Citizenship and Gender Equality ( IGC ) was set up. He must, among many other things, the disappearance of the figure of « head of family», the opening of the diplomatic career to women, the end of legal discrimination for children born out of wedlock, as well as the law on the protection of motherhood and paternity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Equality is a fundamental task of the State that we have, to honor this legacy, always to continue to fulfil. Equality, this learning of citizenship and freedom, is a national design and the current socialist governance, following the recommendations of the European Union, has integrated the global approach to equality in social policies, employment, education, innovation, health, sustainable development of cities and the cohesion of their territories. The balance sheet of this first year of governance is very positive, particularly with the rights and income to be returned to people and families; with the return of holidays and the reduction of working hours so that family and professional life can be better reconciled; with participatory and gender-sensitive budgets involving people in the construction of their collective destinations and improving the governance and accountability of public budgets in the correction of inequalities. in this first year of governance, it was ensured that none, even none, women were discriminated against in access to assisted drug procreation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We stopped the IVG (voluntary interruption of pregnancy) ; we decided for the happiness of children when we put heteroparentality and homoparentity in a situation of equality in adoption. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have exempted from judicial costs the victims of heinous crimes such as human slavery, rape, trafficking in human beings and female genital mutilation. We have allocated a single benefit for inclusion, which will reach 120 000 people with disabilities, to overcome the risks of discrimination. We promote school equity and success in educational policies with the allocation of free school textbooks to 80 000 students of 1. the cycle and with the universalization of pre-school at three years. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: In addition to what has been done, and has been a lot, we want to put our eyes on the future, in the achievements that we have not yet achieved, in the collective commitments that, from right to left, in this area should always be stopped to break down the persistent civil obstacles and prevent us from being free in equality and rights. I would therefore like to congratulate the Government on last week's approval of the bill, which will be discussed in this House for a balanced gender representation. This is a proposal that follows best European practices, by proposing a minimum representation of 33 % of each sex in the management bodies of listed companies in the stock market and in the public sector companies to combat glass ceilings that have prevented qualified women from reaching top places at the level of the business decision. [[P.S.'s applause.]] To put your eyes in the future is to put an end to the restrictions on the Law of Parity in small churches and municipalities, as is being proposed by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, so that, in the next autonomous political cycle, there are more women in local power. To look into the future is to combat wage inequalities between men and women and to promote decent work by increasing national minimum wage, which will reach 648 000 people, i.e. 21% of workers in Portugal, and most of them are women. To keep our eyes on the future is to continue to fight the poverty that has plagued women and children, particularly in recent years. Poverty is deeply intertwined with inequalities. We therefore welcome the Government's efforts in this area to reduce the rate of material deprivation in the last year by 2 to 1 %. To put our eyes in the future is to socialize the learning, innovation and democratization of knowledge and favour the stimulus to scientific employment, as proposed in the National Reform Programme, so that we do not continue to lose, in forced emigration, young people and the most qualified young people in this country. To bet on intergenerational solidarity and to combat violence against the elderly is to set eyes on the future. Keeping an eye on the future is also to bet that the new generations learn about rights and affections to prevent violence in courtship, i.e. a learning of citizenship and equality, as provided for in the Government Programme. It is not to interfere in the fight against domestic violence with the urgent regulation of parental responsibilities, the strengthening of the protection of victims and the widespread involvement of municipalities in this fight. It is to combat violence against LGBTI people ( lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transsexuals and intersexuals). To put your eyes in the future is to assume, as has been done, equality as a cross-cutting area of governance. To put our eyes on the future is to bet on equality, in a society that is more dignified and decent for all of us. The fight for equality is even worth it, because, as Mário Soares said, «it is only defeated who gives up fighting»! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u284	Madam Member, the Bureau has registered four entries for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u285	I will answer two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u286	For clarifications, Mrs. Angela Guerra, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u287	Mr President, Mrs Elza Pais, thank you very much for the subject which you bring today in your political statement. The issues of gender equality, as you know, are topics which the PSD Parliamentary Group accompanies and which the previous Government has very well followed. Madam Member, I would like to remind you that, indeed, in the last two years—as mentioned above, the reports of the World Economic Forum, which you virtually ignored or devalued, at least in your intervention, which refer to, as you know, the 2015 and previous data— Portugal went back to the ranking, we moved to heading 31, with a score of 73, 7%. contrary to that several times VV. Ex.as assert, this Global Gender Gap Report shows that, effectively, gender inequalities have decreased in Portugal not only in terms of our position, which improved eight rankings compared to other countries, but also in terms of the country's absolute performance, because the value, 73, 7%, was the best in all evaluation indicators. With regard to the issue of quota law, which the honourable Member has also addressed, after successive announcements made in the last 12 months — at least 10 years, in addition to the various parliamentary hearings — we have heard the Minister announce that they approved that quota law to reach the 20 % to which they are proposed. Mrs Deputies, we recognise the merit of the initiative, of course, but we would also like to know, and we have asked the Government several times, if the monitoring has been done. In other words, we would like to know whether the monitoring of the results of the self-regulation process was carried out, which, as you know, the previous government introduced, with the signature of 14 companies, the majority of them listed in the stock exchange, through a commitment letter to achieve the objectives of parity in the board of directors of the companies by 2018, by 30 %. For example, in the area of Public Administration, the Government has just enshrined in the law what already exists, particularly in the areas of health or justice. So we don't know if there's any evolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u288	Mrs. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u289	I'm done now, Mr. President. Finally, I would also like to remind the honourable Member that there was some morality to the Government in this area of equality, because, for example, when he appointed administrators for the General Deposit Board and only indicated the name of a woman, the issue of equality is not well represented or dignified. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u290	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Rita Rato.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u291	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Elza Pais, I welcome you in your political statement the issues of equality and having also reflected on the importance of equality in the world of work, and it was interesting to hear now the statement by Mrs Angela Guerra of the PSD. It is that Portuguese women are tired of being used as political propaganda.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u292	That's what you do!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u293	Portuguese women are tired of hearing talk on equality and on board of directors, because this is a reality that concerns a small part of the working reality of Portuguese women. It is even interesting that companies that have won equal prizes violate the principles of the Constitution! It is even interesting to hear Mrs Angela Guerra talk about the agreement that was signed with 14 companies, in which the CFP proposed to the former Government that it should monitor its compliance with the dismissal of workers, pay cuts, the articulation of working hours and precariousness, when what we had from the PSD Government and the CDS in this matter was zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u294	Don't lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u295	There has never been any monitoring of these matters! This is because it is one thing to award prizes and say that companies contribute a lot to equality, another thing is daily practice! There were even sectors, such as that of the bank, which was a paradigmatic case, which won successive prizes and was where there were more layoffs in recent years. Mrs Elza Pais, on the issues that brought us from the world of work, meant that, for us, concerns about equality in the world of work obviously go beyond the issues of quotas in the board of directors of listed companies. In fact, the practical and daily reality women are faced with in the world of work is to ask them if they have children, if they are thinking of getting pregnant, how old they are! This is unacceptable and violates the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic! Indeed, for employers, unfortunately, and despite all advances, there is still a disproportion in the care of minors and the elderly, insofar as unpaid work continues to affect mainly women, so this is obviously a matter that is on the table today. With regard to wage discrimination, it was approved in this House...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u296	Mrs Rita Rato, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u297	I will finish, Mr. President. He said that a report on wage disparities was unanimously approved by this House in 2013. After four years ( it will now be on March 8, 2017 ), we continue to have no report and diagnosis on this subject. Therefore, the question I put to you, Mrs Deputies, is whether you will be with us so that what was approved in 2013, and has never been fulfilled, can once and for all leave the role and translate into a diagnosis of the concrete reality of the world of women's work. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u298	In reply, Mrs Elza Pais has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u299	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Angela Guerra, I wanted to say to you that I am sorry to continue in the past! It was time to turn to the future! The self-regulation strategy did not result in the past.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u300	Where's the report?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u301	The European Union itself proposes that quotas be adopted in companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u302	What about the evaluation?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u303	We therefore look to the future, we say nothing wrong with this strategy, but we want to take the step that the European Union has not taken, with a law that obliges listed companies in the stock market and the business sector of the State to a balanced representation of gender. If you are against this measure, so defended in the European Union, the Council of Europe and UN Women, you are against the whole strategy of asserting gender equality in our country. That is why, Mrs Deputy, I hope you will review this criticism, because it is not a critique for building equality in the future, but it is a translator of a lack of strategic vision and gender transversality in government policies. I am replying to questions about the General Deposit Box : if any parliamentary group asked the Government about the fact that the General Deposit Box does not have a balanced gender representation it was the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u304	It was us!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u305	Did we criticise? Yes! But when you appointed the previous administration of the General Deposit Box, you did not have a gender balance representation either! Therefore, this law is to combat the mistakes that have been made in the past so that, in the future, regardless of the sensibilities of each minister, they are all required to have a gender balance representation on the board of directors. With regard to Global Gender Gap Report, a lot of things would have to say to you, particularly about pay gap indicators where gender inequality has fallen from 17, 9 to 16, 7 and will come down even further. And you know what? Due to the increase in the national minimum wage — one of the measures of the Socialist Government. And with regard to this Global Gender GapReport, the data that you are talking about are data from your government and therefore you should criticize your government and not this government. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] Mrs Rita Rato, of course we follow her up on issues relating to the need to give priority to combating precariousness at work. We're together in this fight. And we are doing so, of course, also through the increase in the national minimum wage, because, as we know, it does not agree very much with the defined strategy, but it has been discussed in terms of social consultation, this increase in the national minimum wage will benefit all workers, more than 20 %, and most of them are women, and with this it will also help to combat wage inequalities. The solidarity complement for the elderly, the social income of insertion, the strengthening and the return of income to families are all measures taken in this last year of governance that will combat precariousness. As we are not happy with all the advances that are being made, because there is always a need to do more at this moment, as you know,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u306	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u307	... is a working group to analyse situations of precariousness, in order to seek new answers so that women have a situation of greater equality and that precariousness fights, as far as possible, definitely in our country, with the measures in progress. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u308	Mrs. Angela War, ask for the word for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u309	To make an inquiry to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u310	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u311	Mr President, following not only the replies given by Mrs Elza Pais but also the statements made by Mrs Rita Rato that the previous Government has not legislated on these matters, I request that certain documents be distributed, including the laws of 2013 and 2014, which, for example, establish gender alternance in the case of the chairman of the board of directors of the regulatory companies, by 33 %, in the offices, the law which obliges the institutions...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u312	Mrs. Member, would you like to finish...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u313	In short, I would ask that these documents be distributed to the Members in order to revive their memory.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u314	Bring them to the Bureau, Mrs. Continuing with requests for clarification, you now have the floor of Mrs Sandra Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u315	Mr President, Mrs Elza Pais, first of all, I would like to welcome the PS's initiative to bring this issue to the debate, which thus gives you the importance and emphasis that you should have and which is not as often as you should have in this House. Too often and too often, equality issues are treated with minority, lateral, and seen almost as women's things. We forget that the issues affecting women, the issues of equal pay, political participation, domestic and sexual violence or harassment are human rights issues and are what makes the difference between truly democratic and equal societies and those who only convince themselves that they are. I wanted to focus here, in addition to everything that has already been discussed, on issues relating to domestic violence. Much has already been done and achieved in the field of domestic violence, but still every year women continue to die in the hands of husbands, companions, boyfriends, boyfriends or ex-husbands, ex-companies, ex-girlfriends. It is, in fact, the main cause of death among recorded murders. And I fear that, despite the further political measures we have adopted here in this House concerning domestic violence, and in particular with regard to prevention and combating domestic violence, we continue to experience this nightmare every year. We need a new culture, especially in the judicial field. We need a culture embodied in a specialized look and practice that addresses these issues as a problem that goes beyond the sphere of personal and loving relationships and that affects and affects society as a whole. Therefore, it is necessary to review and think about this specialized culture in order to look and treat domestic violence, especially within the judicial framework. Finally, I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the worldwide march of women who will join thousands of men and women in various cities around the world, including Portugal, to defend and fight for women's freedom, equality and equality at all levels. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u316	Finally, you have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u317	Mr President, Mrs Elza Pais, I begin by thanking Mrs Elza Pais for bringing the issue of equality here. In fact, it has brought us a variety of questions in this area, and it has brought us a wide range of questions which this matter raises. And I would like to focus on a very particular issue which has referred very slightly but which, for us, has all the interest and has to do with violence against the elderly, both physical violence and psychological violence. Despite the reality of the numbers and news that have come to the public in recent years, the truth is that we have not seen you do anything in this matter at all. The honourable Member has announced her concern about the matter, but neither on the part of her bank nor on the part of the Government have we seen a single measure in this matter. Or, better, we saw them chuming all and any initiative that the CDS here presented, in the past, on the protection and abandonment of the elderly. In fact, the only thing you have done was simply to bring all the initiatives into line with it. They didn't strictly do anything else.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u318	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u319	That is why I would like to ask you, Mrs Deputies, what in particular — in addition to all the generic issues you have raised, which we are all deeply concerned about — this government is going to do in relation to the protection of the elderly. What is this government planning to do? Are you going to replicate what led to the CDS, or are you going to go ahead and find new measures in this area?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u320	The CDS won't let go of the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u321	Or will it result, Mrs. Member, once again, in a concern, in an ad and in zero action, how is your panagio? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u322	Mrs. PSD Members, put your eyes on them!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u323	In reply, Mrs Elza Pais has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u324	Mr President, I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups for their congratulations on this political statement by the Socialist Party on equality, which means that this area, for us, is a central area of governance, but also for the signal that it is an area that the Socialist Party is addressing in a cross-cutting way, integrating it into all areas of political action, because that is how it should be addressed, and not as an area that has to be canned in any area, given the specificity of its subjects. With regard to Mrs Sandra Cunha, I can only associate myself with her concerns and readings that equality is a human rights issue and that obviously is not only about women but also about men, that is, human rights must be defended by all and by all of us, just as the fight against domestic violence must also be done by all people and in all areas of political action. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, regarding concerns about domestic violence, which often results in marital murder, we have just presented in this legislative session a project for the urgent regulation of parental responsibilities and maintenance. This project had been plunged into the previous legislation, in our understanding, very wrongly, because today we could already have an instrument to prevent marital murder, as we think it will happen to it, because it will allow the empowerment of victims and urgent regulation of parental responsibilities, so that victims, aggressors and children know, in a timely and very fast manner, what will happen to them, putting the criminal and civil courts to dialogue with each other, what has not happened. Legislative measures are therefore being adopted. But, as you know, Mrs Deputies, there has been a great link between social security and public security forces, in order to give priority to combating domestic violence, as a central issue of their interventions, and of course citizenship in school is also important, because we have to combat all this phenomenon upstream. And we can only do it if we re-place in schools a discipline or a programme, because it is still broader, education for citizenship and equality, which has also been removed. That's where you've been learning since early, from your early age, the education for affections. And that will help us to fight violence in dating, an increasingly emerging phenomenon, and also bullying and other kinds of violence, as we just saw in the news this week. Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, regarding violence against the elderly, today I have made an approach, above all, to gender issues and not so much social issues. There are two types of violence against the elderly: gender-based violence and social violence. But I have to tell you that, in our territorial cohesion plan, you will find specific measures to support the elderly and combat the violence against them. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u325	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded the political statements. We turn to the assessment of petition No 124 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — They request the debate and decision on the ratification of CETA in the Assembly of the Republic ( Platform « Not to the Transatlantic Treaty » ), together with draft resolutions 379 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government guarantee democratic nature in the process of the Global Economic and Commercial Agreement ( CETA ) ( The Greens ), 603 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by the rejection of free trade and services agreements, including the Global Economic and Trade Agreement ( CETA ) between the European Union and Canada ( CFP ), 606 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government promote an extended debate with civil society and non-governmental organizations on the impact of CETA in Portugal and Europe ( PAN ) and 608 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by rejecting the Global Economic and Trade Agreement ( CETA ) ( European Union-Canada ) and by creating guarantees of transparency and democratic participation ( BE ). To present the draft resolution of The Greens, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u326	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the petitioners on behalf of the Greens and also the Platform « Not to the Transatlantic Treaty» for giving us the opportunity, through this petition, to discuss a matter as important as CETA (Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement). What is intended with this petition is that democracy and transparency work. What the petitioners want is that CETA should be the subject of a wide discussion and that its possible entry into force should be preceded by the respective ratification process by this House. In fact, this requirement is absolutely appropriate because this plenary only discussed the matter twice and on a proposal from the Greens, namely, in an urgent debate and in a political statement. Now, this is little, very little, in view of the implications that are at stake with this treaty. And at the level of the European Union, things are no better either. In fact, secrecy and lack of transparency are the marks of this process. I remember that CETA began to be negotiated in 2009, but was only made public in 2016. In other words, Europe that is so transparent and so democratic is the same Europe that spends seven years negotiating in an absolutely scary secretism but at the same time suspect. The first question in this area is this: why so much secrecy? And the answer can only be one: because CETA is not good for citizens, because, if it were, there was no reason to hide people. More: this secrecy only confirms that the objective of this treaty is to respond to the demands of multinationals. And how is that done? — we may ask. It is made with more economic liberalization and less social protection. It is creating new markets and opening up public services, such as education, health or water, to the voracious appetite of multinationals. It is possible for multinationals to process States, including authorities, on decisions that may compromise the expectations of their profits. And, to prosecute States, not in the courts of each State, but in private courts, in arbitral courts, as multinationals like. But with all these things done to multinationals, the sovereign bodies themselves would be strongly conditioned or even prevented from defending the national interest and the interests of the people, because, firstly, it would be necessary not to disturb the expectation of profit of the multinationals and, only then, if they were to worry about people. Therefore, what is at stake with this treaty is whether we allow economic power to overlap with political power. On the part of the Greens, it will not overlap.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u327	To present the draft resolution of the CFP, you now have the floor of Mrs Carla Cruz.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u328	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, by welcoming the petitioners and the citizens who have subscribed to this petition. And I also want to say that, with this petition, we also have the opportunity to discuss again a matter that has very serious implications for the country, for democracy, for the social rights of the Portuguese people. The negotiations between the European Union and Canada to sign CETA, the Global Economic and Trade Agreement, began in 2009, but were surrounded, as we have already heard today, in a process of secrecy and, above all, in a deep democratic deficit, with pressures and blackmails on the people in the European Union who have raised their voice against this Agreement. We must also remember today that this negotiating process is marked by the attempt to bring the Agreement into force without ratification by the Member States.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u329	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u330	It was the challenge, rejection and demand expressed by the workers and their representative entities, by the organisations and platforms which forced the bodies of the European Union to define the Agreement as a mixed nature, and therefore must be subject to ratification by the parliaments. These agreements aim to further liberalise trade and services by seeking to eliminate any barriers to the domain of large multinationals over the economies of sovereign States. To be ratified, this Agreement will entail a fall back on social, labour, environmental and public health rights, but also on the level of deregulation, deprotection and destruction of the productive capacity of the countries and, in particular, Portuguese production capacity. The CFP rejects the free trade and services treaties dictated by the interests of international capital and defends mutually advantageous cooperation agreements, which safeguard national sovereignty, which respond to the needs and interests of peoples. For all this, we are presenting a legislative initiative that rejects the objectives and purposes of CETA, which recommends that the Portuguese Government defends with the European Union the economy and national production, the rights of the Portuguese people and national sovereignty and that the CETA and other free trade agreements be ratified by the national Parliament. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u331	For an intervention on behalf of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u332	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome on behalf of the NAP the Platform « Not to the Transatlantic Treaty » and the subscribers to this petition, which we accompany with the presentation of a draft resolution. Europe faces the biggest crisis of civic confidence after World War II. This crisis materializes in constant and high electoral abstentions, in a growing climate of distrust in the political class, but also in the disbelief of the current development paradigm. We are in crisis and the increase in nationalism and populism is real, it's factual and it's winning in the polls. But in the face of these disturbing signs of civic discontent, what example do we promote with the absence of debate about transnational agreements? The CETA, which will be voted on on 13 February in the European Parliament, gives this generalized feeling. What debate have we had outside these doors to explain these treaties? In fact, what debate did we have within these doors? And what space has there been to receive contributions from citizens and non-governmental organizations on this subject? Ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have given only signs that there is a dominant political class that does not hear, that does not see and that constantly runs away from debate and change. It is that irrespective of the political positions expressed here on CETA, the TTIP ( Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership ) or even the TISA ( Trade in Services Agreement ), we have the political duty, but above all civic, to be more transparent and inclusive in discussing what future we want for Portugal and Europe. In order to reverse the European decadence, we must reverse the way we do politics. The NAP says yes to the debate, yes to participation, yes to clarification and yes to information. And we say no to CETA, not to TTIP and not to TISA. [[Congratulations from the members of the BE and the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u333	For an intervention, on behalf of the Left Block, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u334	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block first welcomes the petitioners and this petition, which has over 4000 signatures, as well as civil society, which has committed itself to this cause. In addition to the petition we have discussed today, there are other examples of this same commitment, such as the free municipalities of TTIP and CETA, Évora, Loulé, Louures, Mértola, Palmela and, this week still, Faro. on such an important topic, with such serious consequences for the country and for Europe, there are still those who work to emphasize these same consequences, in an attempt to open the debate to society, as should have been done longer ago, and that is also to be welcomed. It should be noted that the challenge to the Agreement has been increasing not only by non-governmental organisations but also by more institutional organisations which have been issuing negative opinions on the consequences of the Agreement — the CGTP, the DEC, the National Data Protection Commission, environmental and agricultural organisations, among others. from the Left Block, we have been very concerned about this agreement since the beginning of its process : environmental issues, food security issues, agricultural deregulation, deregulation of labour relations, deprotection of European citizens and consumers, creating a legal mechanism that allows companies and investors to process States, meanwhile designated by ICS ( Investment Court System ). Finally, a myriad of areas that are directly affected by this Agreement and which have not, in our view, had the necessary reflection, much less the necessary criticism. For example, one of the most criticised parts of CETA at European level is the same mechanism, the ICS mechanism for regulating conflicts between investors and states, because it is indeed a brutal challenge to democracy and legitimate capacity for regulation and public policies, but it has also deserved a more legal criticism of incompatibility with the national and European legal order—see, for example, the opinion of the European Association of Judges.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u335	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u336	This leads us to a fundamental issue in this debate which, although it is already late, cannot go to the side of any Member of Parliament or any Member of Parliament and which has to do with public services. in the midst of all the harmful consequences for health, for the environment, for agriculture, the damage to public services and the capacity to create public policies at the service of citizens are, with these agreements, not only the CETA, but the TTIP and the TISA, seriously affected. Therefore, in practice, the ability to regulate public services, such as water or health, is questioned when investors and companies have the ability to process states when they mix with their expected profits. In some countries this already happens with similar mechanisms and agreements—see the last case of Ukraine, but also in Portugal, with the question of public transport. [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members: To conclude, I would like to say that, given all the areas that are affected in our society, the proposal that the Left Block brings is in the sense of this Agreement that it is, in fact, rejected by fair trade, but above all, by defending the public interest and public services. Moreover, it is necessary to instill a more democratic and transparent approach in the discussion of the one who is our decision-making role on what affects the country, which has to be clearer in this process and which has not been so far. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u337	Mrs Lara Martinho of the PS now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u338	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With Canada we share values, interests, history and a strong Portuguese-Canadian community. As Canada is one of the most developed countries in the world, its level of social and labour protection is very similar to the European and Portuguese social model. In spite of this convergence, Portugal's trade flows with Canada with respect to exports are less than 1%. Therefore, the expectation is that we can change this reality with the establishment of a privileged economic relationship with Canada. CETA is expected to increase trade between the European Union and Canada by 23 %. Today we are discussing a number of initiatives which have strong reservations about the objectives and assumptions of this Agreement and which certainly deserve to be discussed again in this House. But I cannot fail to recall that the conclusion of the negotiations was announced on 26 September 2014 after five years of negotiations. It should also be recognized that CETA introduces a set of truly pioneering instruments and provisions, which we hope will mark a new model of fair, balanced and equitable trade agreements. Moreover, we often say that, after this agreement, we will hardly be able to negotiate another with such high standards, of which it lists only a few examples: the introduction of a permanent arbitration tribunal, ensuring the impartiality of the appointment of judges, the balance of the rights of investors and States,... [[Protests by members of BE Isabel Pires and Mariana Mortágua.]] ...and inflexibility in the field of labour and environmental rights, ensuring and unequivocally preserving the rights of States to decide freely on their public policies. Other examples, with immediate impacts on the Portuguese economy, are: the elimination of tariffs in sectors such as textiles, footwear and furniture and the reduction of tariffs in the wine and spirit drinks sector, the granting of the European Union a new bilateral quota for an effective 18 500 tonnes of cheese, which duplicates the current one, and the recognition of protected geographical indications, allowing other products to be considered in the future, or even that total protection of products whose current protection is only partial, as is the case with São Jorge cheese. For these reasons we must not fail to recognize that CETA will be an instrument of growth and sustainable development for our country, while it may serve as a normative model for future agreements under negotiation by the European Commission. at this moment we are a few weeks away from the ratification of the Agreement by the European Parliament and from then on CETA may provisionally enter into force in the areas of exclusive competence of the European Union. But the democratic scrutiny of the national parliaments and of our Parliament is safeguarded, since we will be called upon to ratify it. I would like to conclude by greeting the petitioners for the exercise of the right of petition, as well as the draft resolutions presented here. We understand the concerns and anxieties that such a complex agreement creates, however, we will not be able to follow the draft resolutions of the PCP and the Left Block, even though we consider it worthwhile to bring this topic back to debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u339	Mr Carlos Costa Neves, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u340	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by thanking the petitioners for this new opportunity to reaffirm that the free trade agreement between the European Union and Canada is a milestone in the history of free trade relations, is a reference model for the future and, of course, is of interest to Portugal. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]] This Agreement has everything to do with the principles and values that guide us, with the free and open society that we idealize. We believe in people, we fight for free initiative, then for free trade, within the framework of a social and environmental market economy. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] We value who produces, who innovates, who exports. We believe that free trade agreements like this are essential instruments for regulating globalisation and also recognize the essential role of the European Union in this context. Everything separates us from nationalist positions, isolationists, protectionists... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u341	... of those who, wanting to close societies, condemn hundreds of millions of citizens to poverty. That's what the Members are doing! [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by members of BE Isabel Pires and Mariana Mortágua.]] Everything therefore separates us from the position of the left-wings who support the government, manifestly hostile to free trade, openly against this Agreement with Canada — with Canada, see well! — the paradigm of an open, democratic society that respects human rights, the social state, labour rights, regulation, a society that cultivates freedom. Or is that exactly why the left ones are against this agreement?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u342	Well asked! [[Protests by members of BE Isabel Pires and Mariana Mortágua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u343	Is it exactly because you're with Canada and Canada being like you are?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u344	And who supported Angola? Tell me!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u345	We support the ratification of this Agreement: seven years of complex negotiations in a framework of exemplary transparency have contributed to its evident consistency.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u346	For someone who protects Angola, you are talking a lot about human rights!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u347	This Agreement eliminates customs duties, ensures predictable conditions for investors, puts an end to restrictions on access to public contracts and, contrary to what Mrs and Mrs. Left-wing Members who support the government say, ensure that economic gains are not achieved to the detriment of fundamental rights, social standards, the right to legislate governments, environmental protection, health and consumer safety. [[Protests by members of BE Isabel Pires, Joana Mortágua and Mariana Mortágua.]] This Agreement is also of particular interest to Portugal. The sharing of strategic principles, values and interests, associated with the essential contribution of Portuguese living and working there, brings us closer to Canada. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] The complementary profile of the two countries, together with the establishment of this new advanced economic relationship, opens the door to our products, which represents a real opportunity for both traditional and new sectors. We therefore have good reason to support the ratification of this agreement. This agreement ensures free trade, corresponds to national interest and is with Canada. Maybe that's why the ladies are so uncomfortable. Members of the left united! [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u348	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u349	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like to begin by congratulating and greeting the petitioners for bringing to this House a subject as relevant as that of the trade agreement between the European Union and Canada, commonly known as CETA, and I also welcome Mr Rapporteur, Carlos Costa Neves, who, with great quality and proficiency, presented an exemplary report to the Committee on European Affairs. The CDS does not have a position similar to that presented to us by the petitioners regarding the content of the agreement, but we believe that this agreement deserves a public discussion, deserves a debate in Parliament and that its content, in particular, must be ratified in the Assembly of the Republic by the representatives elected by the Portuguese people. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u350	As this is a mixed agreement, which has matters within the Community and within the national competence of the States, its ratification must take place not only in the European Parliament, which will already take place on 17th, but also in the national parliaments. In fact, we would have said so even before such a position was taken by the Court of Justice of the European Union, which we welcome. in this respect, as in so many other matters, the CDS values Parliament and wants this discussion to take place also at the parliamentary level. That is why it is important to remember that this Parliament has already held at least three public debates on this subject, it has already held several parliamentary hearings with members of the Government, either from the previous or from the present, and has held up to an urgent debate specifically on this parliamentary ratification. thus, we do not follow the criticisms of the leftmost benches that say that Parliament has not been present in this discussion. We believe that this criticism decreases the work that Parliament has done. In fact, the last time we discussed this issue in plenary was the preparatory debate of the European Council held in October, this discussion was held with the Prime Minister. at that time, we recalled that the trade agreement between the European Union and Canada was very close to blocking, it was very close to ruin and not to happen, but fortunately, Europe did not surrender itself to the populist forces, to the extremist, protectionist, anti-capitalist forces, anti-globalization, anti-market economy, which in many places in Europe are represented by the extreme right and in Portugal are represented by the most extreme left. Fortunately, we have managed to overcome this issue. It is important to remember that Canada has standards of social, labour, environmental protection and that Canada has the same level of economic regulation as European standards. in this sense, if the European Union does not understand Canada, it will hardly understand any other country in order to be able to sign agreements of this nature and size. For us, what is at stake here is, above all, a pragmatic matter: whether with this agreement we can boost the economy of Europe and the economy of Portugal or whether, on the contrary, this agreement reduces our economy. We understand that, even with the risks and the issues that concern us, this agreement helps to boost our economy and it is a mistake to reduce this debate to an ideological battle. For us, this is not an ideology issue, it is a matter of economy. And putting the European Union aside from the process of globalisation is a dangerous, wrong and populist idea that we condemn, and I say this very clearly to the Greens Ecological Party, the Communist Party and the Left Block. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u351	For a second speech, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u352	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Pedro Mota Soares, in our draft resolution we are defending the ratification by the House and the honourable Member is also defending it. So I don't understand your last remark. Mr Costa Neves, say that there was transparency in this process only if it is subject to mental reservation. Mrs Lara Martinho, on the dispute settlement system, despite having a new name, ICS, CETA maintains the worst parts of the ISDS (Investor-State Dispute Settlement ) model and even considerably expands its geographical position. In fact, the opinion of the European Association of Judges is very clear about this. It would be good if we heard what the DECO says, which alerts us to the need of the Assembly of the Republic to reject the CETA. Independent UN experts urge States to reject CETA because it will dilute environmental standards, food security and health and work protection. Another former UN Special Rapporteur cautions that CETA prohibits municipalities from pursuing their local public procurement policies as a way to promote local economy and employment. It is therefore necessary to reject CETA and to prevent CETA from entering into force on a provisional basis without the Member States taking a decision and, as far as Portugal is concerned, without the Assembly of the Republic from ratifying or rejecting it, as the Greens intend. [[Congratulations from BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u353	For a second speech, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u354	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to start by reminding Mr Carlos Costa Neves, who has not heard my speech, that the CFP is in favour of relations with other States and is in favour of cooperation provided it is mutually advantageous. What the CFP completely rejects is that they are other States, other countries to decide on the fate of Portugal — that is what we defend and that is what we do every day. The CFP also completely rejects agreements that do not defend national interests and violate national sovereignty. That is what Portugal must do, and that is what we tell the Portuguese Government to do in the European bodies, which is to defend national sovereignty, to defend national production, to defend the rights of workers and the Portuguese people. That is the commitment we have to the workers and the Portuguese people, it is no other undertaking than that one. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u355	Mrs. Members, let us now move on to the next point on our agenda, which consists in the assessment of petition No 115 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Calls for the repeal of Regulation No 1 - H / 2016 amending Articles 3. o, 6. o, 8. o, 9. o, 18. o, 19. o, 20. o, 22. o, 23. o, 25. o is 26. the Regulation Order No 7 - B / 2015, published in the Journal of the Republic, 2. the Series, No 88, of 7 May 2015, which determines the registration procedures and their renewal ( Sandra Cristina Correia Ribeiro Gonçalves ). For an intervention, Mrs Odete João has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u356	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, I welcome the subscribers of this petition for the opportunity to once again discuss freedom of choice in education. Order No. 1 - H, which defines the students' registration criteria, does not question the right of parents to choose the educational project they want for their educators, contrary to what the petitioners refer to. The constitutional freedom to learn and teach continues, as it has always been, registered in the existence of the offer of public and private schools. Families are free to make their choices. Different things are the financing of private schools with public money and, on this issue, we are not confused. The financing allocated by the State to private and cooperative educational establishments with an association contract is intended to meet the shortcomings of the public network and, as such, funding is allocated to the class. In addition, the financing of the classes of private and cooperative educational establishments was justified by the former PSD/CDS Government at the Court of Auditors as being for classes inserted in areas lacking in the public network. We know that this was not the reason, it was a political option guided by the emptying of public school. Regulation No 1 - H states clearly that it eliminates redundancy in the educational supply between public school and private and cooperative, thus fulfilling the constitutional requirement of the State to create a network of public establishments covering the needs of the entire population, as set out in Article 75. that of our Constitution. The Government of the Socialist Party has also demonstrated, with the rationalization of the school network, that strictly manages citizens' taxes and that it has as its priority a public network of educational establishments that responds with quality and equity to the demands of education and training of the population. In short, wanting to depend on freedom of choice in education of State financing is an aridious way of withdrawing from public school what is due it by constitutional law. The PS will continue, as it has always done, to value and invest in public school, to carefully manage public resources and to ensure equal opportunities for all in respect of democratic values and in compliance with the Constitution. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u357	Mr Pedro Alves has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u358	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, I would like to begin by complimenting the petitioners. The petition in question refers to a matter for which the PSD has successively alerted the current Minister of Education and the Government. The PSD argues that education must correspond to a continuous and persistent process, immune to crises and fluctuations of a different order that could divert it from the imperative to continue to improve the profile of qualification of the population, always focused on safeguarding the best interests of the students. in this measure, it is essential to build commitments that contribute to giving stability to educational policies and to mobilize people for greater involvement in the fields of education and training. The PSD has always considered that Regulation No 1 - H, which regulates the enrolment and frequency regime in the framework of compulsory education for children and young people, introduced two rules only understandable in the light of ideological prejudices, standards that question not only the quality of public education service, but also the values of predictability and stability. The PSD therefore recommended to the Government the repeal of Article 18 ( 3 ). Article 3 ( 9 ) and ( 9 ). this regulatory order. In fact, that order, on the one hand, limited Article 18 ( 3 ). the conditions for reducing the number of students per class and perhaps that is why the Ministry of Education continues to refuse to answer PSD questions on the size of the classes. On the other hand, the same Regulation office introduced Article 3 ( 9 ). the, a limitation of the frequency of students in schools with contract of association to the geographical area of the implementation of the supply covered by their contract, which does not comply with Decree-Law No 152 / 2013, does not faithfully comply with the triennial contracts signed by the State and private and cooperative educational establishments and, above all, ignores their social impacts. Then, not taking into account those who are the legitimate aspirations of students and families who benefit from this public education service, the application of this order caused, in particular, the interruption of the school course of students, as happened in Mafra, the uncertainty with families, the closure of schools and the contempt of teachers who served in the public education service and who are now considered second-class teachers, as it is now evident in the proposals presented by the Ministry for extraordinary binding contests. The line of the ideological agenda has been contained in daily complaints of lack of money, means, operational assistants, among others. All this was to the detriment of students and families, when, to avoid it, more rigour, more sense and weight. in this matter, it is not a matter of choosing between maintaining public school or private school, but rather of ensuring that families and students can locally have a framework of temporal stability and that schools can have a period that allows them to adjust expectations and offers. Respecting, valuing, integrating the dynamics of schools, municipalities, communities is the only way to realize the principle of freedom of education in all its expressions and this should not be crossed by private interpretations or agendas. To ignore these dimensions is to impoverish education, it is to question legitimate aspirations of families and at nothing contributes to the quality of teaching. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u359	For an intervention, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u360	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to greet the petitioners for the opportunity to return to this debate once again and clarify a few points. The petitioners ask for the repeal of Legislative Order No. 1 - H / 2016, because they say that this Office will seek the autonomy of parents in defining the educational project of children by predicting the prevalence of the public network in relation to schools with association contract. In particular, what is contested in this Order is the part where it states that « the frequency of private and cooperative education establishment with an association contract in part of the financial support of the State corresponds to the geographical area of implementation of the supply covered by its contract ». What does this mean? What this means is that the frequency of students in a private college paid by the State depends on these students being inserted into the geographical area for which the contract is made. And why is that? Because association contracts correspond to the absence of public supply, they do not correspond to any other criterion. Therefore, if there is no public offer on that site, then it is about that place which is made of the association contract and not to any other outside that geographical scope. Therefore, if the shortage is the assumption, there must necessarily be a geographical limit. Who explains this to us well? Who explains this well is the PSD. When the PSD Government had to reply to the Court of Auditors on why it placed the contract on some sites but did not place the contract on other sites, it replied that « (...) in accordance with this basic rule of Law 9 / 79 that the State, in the first association contracts concluded under this new statute, proceeded to delimit the geographical areas for the implementation of the supply through the criterion of areas lacking public network ». And the PSD Government adds: "The freedom of choice or the choice of families between public and private education is not made through association contracts. Do not keep on seeking. ” So I have nothing to add to the clarification that the PSD Government has given itself and, in this case, it has also given the petitioners. The PSD competition order in 2015 also provided that the list of classes placed in the contest would be divided by geographical area. The reference unit for the delimitation of the geographical areas of the establishment of the supply was the administrative unit of the parish. Do not keep on seeking. ” What did the 2016 office do? He came to serve the law! for the first time, he came to comply with the law and that was what enabled him to end the abuse of association contracts and abuse of public money. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u361	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u362	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, I begin by congratulating the subscribers of petition No 115 / XIII ( 1. a ), which we are discussing, and secondly, to say, frontally, that the PCP does not follow the expectations of the petitioners that the regulatory order in question will seek the autonomy of the parents in the definition of the educational project they want for their children, nor does it seem to us that there is any obstacle to registering students in private and cooperative schools. The truth is that we return to the theme of association contracts and, in this matter, what the Office enshrines is the allocation to IGEC ( General Inspection of Education and Science ), in conjunction with DGE ( General Directorate of School Establishments ) of the competence to verify compliance with the private establishments with a contract for the association of their geographical area for the implementation of the contract awarded. That's it! Check the contract's compliance! I mean, is the existence of private schools in question? He's not! Is the possibility of those who want to choose to do so as long as they pay their own costs? He's not! These schools and the economic groups that control them cannot be subsidized by the public record, with the direct consequence of the de-investment, degradation and constraints of the public network. Well, we remember, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who, the tow of the so-called freedom of choice, PSD and CDS directly and indirectly favored the private school, while at the same time impoverishing the public school, guaranteed the profits of the private school with public money, which should be invested in public school,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u363	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u364	... created specific training offer only in private, while at the same time denying their existence in public school. This is, however, a conservative mechanism for financing private schools through the cuts in public school funding. More: it was precisely the disrespect for the legal framework that clearly defines the complementary character of private education in relation to public education that created expectations in workers, students, parents...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u365	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u366	... as regards the continuity of private education financed by the State, which it cannot and should not take on, especially when there is a duplication of supply. The CFP believes that funding to private and cooperative schools through association contracts should only be carried out when and while there is no objective capacity to respond to the needs of the public, as a guarantee of everyone's access to education, with funding not greater than that done by classes in public school, in accordance with the rules defined in regions where the public school is unable to accommodate these students, and, yes, with strict verification of the contracts signed. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u367	For an intervention, Mrs Ilda Novo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u368	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The petitioners, who comply, seek the repeal of the Legislative Order No. 1 - H / 2016, which partially modified some articles of the Legislative Order No. 7 - B / 2015. It is worth recalling that the preamble of this last order stated that, in developing the principle of freedom of choice of school by families, based on the educational project, the introduction of changes to the registration regime and frequency continued to enable solutions that best fit the interests and needs of students and families. It also unequivocally reiterated the commitment to cooperation with private and cooperative educational institutions with association contracts and private institutions of social solidarity. All principles which, in the view of the CDS, must preside over any decision in this matter, so as to safeguard the constitutional right to freedom of education for students and their families. In this respect, it is to quote Professor Fernando Adam of Fonseca who, in a recent article, says something that, in our view, can be applied to the matter in question. Adam da Fonseca says: « The concept of ‘Education State’, which confuses through its political and financial power the philosophical, aesthetic, political, ideological or religious freedoms of Portuguese people, opposes their own freedom, totally assuming their disregard for the constitutional right to freedom of education of students and their families. Withdrawing from the basic right families from their children to another school is simply a boundless form of dictatorship that very dangerously disrespects what is the main achievement that the 1974 Revolution has intended to guarantee to the Portuguese: freedom. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[BE's protests.]] in the order in which it is intended to revoke, the pretext for monitoring the fulfilment of the registration duty, are introduced, in addition, amendments to certain rules relating to registration and renewal procedures, allegedly with a view to better application thereof. Now, in fact, it is only a subterfuge to effectively limit, restrict, condition and eliminate the right that these families already had to freely choose the school for their children and that, after all, as we know from the facts, it essentially affects those who do not have financial possibilities to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u369	So why didn't you make any proposals? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u370	On the other hand, with regard to these rules which, objectively and factually, make it difficult for students to register in private and cooperative educational establishments without an association contract, we cannot forget and fail to show the very serious consequences that inevitably will come to their workers. According to recent reports, teachers from these same educational establishments cannot compete on an equal footing with other colleagues. In fact, for competitive purposes, anyone who comes from the private and cooperative sector becomes a second-rate teacher and will remain unemployed. Finally, Mr President, I would like to ask: where are the trade unions, where are the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party, which are entitled palladins to defend the rights acquired by workers, who fall into the role of owners of the fight against precariousness and discrimination? [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] What unfortunate ideological prejudice leads them deliberately to forget the dismissals of what they are and will be complicit? Why do they even urge the government to relegate these teachers to the third priority and, consequently, to condemn them to unemployment? Where are the Left Block and the PCP? So much shame and hypocrisy! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u371	Where was I at the CDS when they cut off employees' rights? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-12.u372	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have reached the end of the examination of petition No 115 / XIII ( 1. (a) and consequently also on our agenda today. I should like to announce the agenda for tomorrow's plenary session, which begins at 10 a.m.: the first point, and by marking the PSD, is generally discussed in draft law No 367 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates the legal regime of the former municipal councils ( PSD ), together with draft resolutions 450 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the valuation and regulation of older universities ( PSD ), 487 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption and implementation of a national plan of action for positive ageing ( PSD ) and 605 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the inclusion of pain and geriatric studies in their curricular programmes ( PSD ) with higher education institutions in the field of health. of the second point, and because it is Friday, we will have a regiment vote. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 20 minutes.]]
