ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists will start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 3 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the gates of the galleries. Before we begin today's agenda, I would ask Mr Duarte Pacheco to proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. First of all, I refer to the proposals of lein. 96 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Code of Criminal Procedure, allowing the electronic notification of lawyers and informal defenders, which falls to 1. the Commission ; 97 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Defines the penalty scheme applicable to the development of collaborative financing activity which falls to 6. the Commission ; and 98 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the arrangements for the allocation of securities for the use of the water public domain in relation to existing untitled situations which fall to 11. the Commission. Resolution No 58/ XIII was also introduced ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the withdrawal of the reservation made by the Portuguese Republic to the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the United Nations adopted by the United Nations General Assembly on 13 February 1946, which falls to 2. the Commission. The projects of lein.o 619 / XIII ( 3 ) also entered. ( a ) — Amends Decree-Law No 55 / 2013 of 17 April, which defines the organization of the Foundation for Science and Technology, IP ( PSD ) ; 620 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the Decree-Law No 448 / 79 of 13 November approving the Statute of the University Teacher Career ( PSD ) ; 621 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Statute of the College of Political Higher Education Careers approved by Decree-Law No 185 / 81 of 1 July ( PSD ) ; 622 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Authorizes the creation of areas of permit to animals in commercial establishments ( second amendment to Decree-Law No 10 / 2015 of 16 January 2015 ) ( BE ) ; and 623 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — It enables animals to stay in commercial establishments under specific conditions by amending Decree-Law No 10 / 2015 of 16 January ( The Greens ). The draft resolutions Nos 1069 / XIII ( 3 ) also entered the Bureau. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of the employment of doctors in society ( PSD ) ; 1070 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the promotion of an intellectual property policy to encourage investment and innovation ( PSD ) ; 1071 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of technology transfer between universities and political institutes and society ( PSD ) ; 1072 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — National minimum wage ( The Greens ) ; 1073 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — by increasing the national minimum wage ( NAP ) ; 1074 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government work towards the recognition of professions relating to criminal police bodies as « rapid wear professions» ( PAN) ; 1075 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Changes in the scope of information offices and student support and extension of their obligation to higher education ( BE ) ; 1076 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a set of measures for the prevention and protection of forest fires ( BE ) ; and 1077 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the achievement of the advantages and benefits of CETA ( PS ), which falls to 2. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we come to our agenda, the Bureau would like to inform you that it is present in the gallery for the diplomatic corps to the President of the Assembly of the Republic of Mozambique accompanied by a delegation from that House, for which I would like a warm greeting. [[General applause, stand up.]] We are now on our agenda, the first of which is political declarations. To give the first political statement to the Greens Ecologist Party, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: last September, more than 81 % of the territory of mainland Portugal reached severe drought and 7, 4 % the extreme drought situation according to information provided by the Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere ( IPMA ). The prospect is that this situation can continue in the coming months. We have had memories of difficult years from the point of view of drought, such as those of 2005 or 2012, but this month of September was the hottest since the beginning of the 30th century. In good rigour, this country has always faced drought problems, but the intensity that these drought periods are reaching is that it makes the phenomenon quite worrisome. Nothing, however, so that we are not alert. Indeed, it is widely known that one of the consequences of global warming on the planet is the recurrence of overcrowding and extreme climates. There are studies, which have focused on the national territory, which account for the worrying part of our soils, which can be affected by the worsening of global warming. in the last 50 years, the average temperature in Portugal increased 1°C. If we remember that the Paris Agreement provides for an increase of not more than 1, 5°C compared to the pre-industrial period, so that the most harmful effects of climate change can be stopped or mitigated, we realize how significant and worrying those values are. Also in the last 50 years, precipitation in Portugal is decreasing, on average, 4 cm per decade, which is not insignificant. in this picture, this autumn, absolutely abnormal, has generated consequences that should alarm us in a proactive sense. Farmers point out that they do not remember a year as dramatic for their farms such as this, hot and dry, having enormous losses. The lower agricultural production, in addition to the impacts on the survival of many families living in agriculture, obliges the importation of food, by means of transport, to exacerbate greenhouse gas emissions. These same climatic characteristics also create favourable conditions for the very serious problem of forest fires, which, in addition to the tragedy they have constituted for so many people and for the country, release greenhouse gas emissions in alarming quantities. The lack of water, for its part, refers the country, within the scope of the electro-productive network that is at the disposal, for the thermal power plants, to coal, and for those of combined cycle, to gas, making the emission of greenhouse gases increase in considerable volume. In addition to all this, which, incomprehensiblely, in other sectors determining to reduce these greenhouse gas emissions, such as transport, does not work to, increasingly and continuously, provide an effective supply. See, for example, what is absurdly happening today with Soflusa and Transtejo, whose fleet has decreased, having, with the former PSD/CDS government, made substantial cuts in staff, material and repair. Fruit of poor management, ships at their disposal do not arrive to ensure the transport of passengers that is necessary. The Soflusa, unqualifiedly, asks passengers not to look for this river transport in certain hours of peak and overcrowding and chaos are of such order that many people are forced to use individual transport! Is that how we want to contribute to reducing the impact of climate change? Oh, my God! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very serious matter. Mitigating the phenomenon of global warming and working on the aspect of the country's adaptation to these extreme climate situations is fundamental. We have many committees, many plans and programmes, but the problem is that their practical application leaves much to be desired. For example, how many times have the Greens brought to Parliament the need to comply with the National Water Efficiency Programme in order to reduce waste and generate an effective individual and collective attitude of saving the fundamental resource that is water? But there are water supply systems that continue with very significant percentages of losses in transport; it is still seen automatic streams that, instead of watering the green areas, flood the walks in an atrocious waste; it continues to be the light-years of the necessary use of rainwater and even water used and treated to respond to multiple uses of water; in the middle of the 21st century we continue to use water from the network, in mass, to water gardens and other surfaces and soils. The programme exists, the necessary measures are listed, but its practical application fails. at the energy level, there are also long-term steps to be taken. We need to bet on energy efficiency. This is a decisive step, where there is a huge margin to save energy. But for that, we need to bet on a good network of collective transport rather than on offers of transport that leave people busy! Also in the field of electroproduction, the Greens will fight, in this next State Budget, so that in this country, at the energy level, microproduction is encouraged. We have to stop relying on coal to generate electricity. And in this particular drought situation, the Greens believe that it is not possible to forget the agony that so many small farmers are in. in this situation, the solution is to provide additional resources and support and not to anticipate support that they will no longer have before and with which they had to rely. Lack of water is compromising a number of crops and the creation of animals. Extreme situations require exceptional responses and not the readjustment of calendars for financial support. Finally, Mr President, on this issue of the severe and extreme drought that the country is facing, and in view of the worrying developments in the situation, the Greens today took the initiative to direct a proposal for the coming of the Members. Ministers for Agriculture and the Environment to their parliamentary committees, to provide adequate clarification and to be able to discuss together solutions that are necessary for a country that already lives in the skin, the atrocious and concrete consequences of climate change. [[Applause from the Greens and from the PS and PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u5	Madam Member, five Members have signed up to make requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u6	Mr President, I will answer together.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u7	Of course. To ask for clarification, you have the floor, first of all, Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u8	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I would like to begin by congratulating you on bringing here the issue of drought and climate change, because it is undoubtedly a vital and important issue. We understand well in the CDS that we are talking about a problem that has structural motivations and certainly much needs to be done from the structural point of view and from the point of view of climate change. But there is also one side of the problem that causes us serious concern, which are the consequences that this same problem is having in many places immediately. On the other hand, precisely today, we have had the opportunity to check on the problems that this situation is causing in agriculture and animal breeding, but not just on the ground. More than six months ago, the CDS proposed that we give exceptional support to energy billing for some affected holdings and we had the opportunity to, for example, present a proposal yesterday for the creation of a fund, which we find urgent and very necessary for three reasons. First, to address water supply problems, because we are very concerned about the warning that there are districts in which water supply to populations is already at stake; secondly, to solve the most serious problems in the primary sector; and still for the use of Community funds. It was also the case of a draft resolution that we have tabled, that we will certainly have the opportunity to discuss, like, indeed, what we have done in the past and what was done in 2012 when,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u9	It was just a prayer!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u10	... although at a time of great budgetary difficulties, it was possible to take in some means and deal with this problem immediately. Without forgetting, of course, that there are causes and that we have to deal with the causes, I would ask you, Mrs Deputies, what it seems to you that we can immediately do in relation to the affected populations to the affected farmers. [[Protests from PCP MP Miguel Tiago.]] I also ask you what you think of the measures that the CDS has already put forward in time and that, if they were on the ground, they could already be making a very substantial difference in many agricultural holdings. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u11	Mr Renato Sampaio has the floor also to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u12	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I would first of all like to congratulate you on bringing this issue to plenary, which is very timely at this time of extreme drought. Climate change is a reality. Some don't want to see it, but they're a reality. I would like to highlight the great consensus that exists in Portuguese society and in this House about the need for a real fight against climate change, because Portugal is one of the most vulnerable countries, with the erosion of our coast, which often leads the sea into our homes, with the torrential rains that then occur in winter, transforming the streets into real rivers, with the heat waves and with the extreme drought that we live today and which affects people, agriculture, animals and the economy, as is evident. All this is obvious consequences of climate change, which many do not want to see. Portugal and its governments — I repeat 'their governments' — have always been in line with the fight against climate change from the Berlin Conference through Kyoto to the last conference in Paris. Portugal started this path that is mirrored in energy policies, in the implementation of renewable energy production, in electrical mobility and in the prevention of the destruction, which is very important, of the carbon sinks of which Portugal is an example. The droughts have always existed, what happens today is that the cycles are much smaller and much shorter. So there is a great need—and this is a question I wanted to put—to constitute water reserves to come to times of extreme drought.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u13	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u14	I'm done now, Mr. President. The dams are therefore an important infrastructure for this electrical reserve, but the Government, Mrs Deputy, has already acted, for the first time, by creating an emergency plan for these situations where it places the priorities for the use of water: that of human use, that of the problem relating to animals, that of water, and finally only d the other uses.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u15	Thank you for your closing, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u16	I would ask for your understanding, Mr President, of a situation I would like to mention. This Government has taken concrete measures to overcome these difficulties by providing €500 000 to deal with this problem, with the hiring of tanks to supply the reservoirs of populations in a complicated situation, particularly in the Sado basin. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u17	You also have the floor for a request for clarification, Mr José Carlos Barros, from the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u18	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I welcome and thank The Greens for bringing this issue to debate. I would begin by saying, first of all, that this political statement means not only what we already know — the increasingly dramatic risk situations resulting from climate change — but also the affirmation of the recognition of a failure that is the government's government action to which the Greens, let us not forget, support and parliamentary support: lack of answers in the primary sector, in water supply, lack of clear answers to this problem. In fact, it is not only evidence as it is, above all, worrying to see that we continue to see an unacceptable lack of response by the Government. The honourable Member spoke in this speech on the Soflusa. I am glad you spoke, because perhaps the people who are already reflecting and agreeing to the chaos in which the public transport service is being transformed have a good opportunity here to reflect again on what it gives and what it has actually given this strategy by the government and the partisan forces that support it for public transport. He quoted only one news from yesterday's press, which said that the despair led the Soflusa users to force the entry into the boats, that the police intervened and that even the INEM had to be called.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u20	So what is important is that these issues are brought to the debate and that we are debating them, but, honourable Member, the question I leave you with is the following: at these different levels what the Greens have demanded from the Government that they support? What answers have you requested from the government? This is in addition to the recognition of the lack of answers that have occurred. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u21	You have the floor, to ask for clarification, Mr João Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I would like to begin by congratulating you and greeting The Greens for bringing this very important issue of our day. The Government has already been in the Assembly of the Republic and the Committee on Agriculture on this subject, but it was already in June and unfortunately the situation in June has continued to worsen. So to solve the problem, we already know that the PSD and CDS strategy, when they were government, to pray for the problem to be solved did not solve it,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u23	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u24	... but we need a more intensive strategy and very concrete support for this matter. There are structural and timely issues here. in the context of the topical issues, it is necessary to ensure that water reaches all those who need it, particularly the productive sectors, where we have to ensure immediate support for the consumption and feeding of animals, given that many farmers are already using what would be the winter reserves to feed animals at this time. This is a problem that now arises and that will certainly be put in the future, so these support must be guaranteed. But what I would like to ask you, Mrs Deputies, is about the reflections and strategies on this matter. One of the reflections that the PCP considers it necessary to do has to do with the regadio and the National Plan of Regadios. The irrigation has often been used to introduce exotic productions that were not usually produced here and that were much more suitable to countries with other water levels that our country does not have. instead, it could have been used to ensure better profitability in what our national production is. We believe that this reflection has to be done, it cannot go side by side. Furthermore, on a proposal from the CFP, a resolution from the Assembly of the Republic was published in May which specifically recommended that the Government develop a national strategy for drought farming, also cross-cutting with this problem and with this reflection that needs to be done. Finally, there is another concern, which concerns the structures and responses of the State. At times, there were some structures of reflection and experimentation in the area of desertification, focal points and a set of structures which, unfortunately, were limited in their operation on account of the reduction of staff to which the Ministry of Agriculture was obliged. Today, there are many difficulties in terms of human resources and these difficulties call into question the functioning of a set of structures that would be fundamental to reflect and to intervene in this matter. My question was, therefore, whether the honourable Member would accompany the CFP in these two concerns. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u25	In order to make the last request for clarification, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola of the BE Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, has made it clear in her speech and it is also the understanding of the Left Block that climate change is not a ghost and that, in addition to the specific measures already stated here, it is also necessary to take urgent and structural measures to change the logic of combating climate change. in this sense, and when we compare the demand for water by sector, we see that this is exponentially more expressive in the agricultural sector, which rounds 73 %, followed by urban demand, which rounds 19 %, according to the 2016 Report of the State of the Environment. The waste is also higher in the agricultural sector. In view of this distribution, will they not consider the need to restructure agricultural crops in order to adapt to our water availability and not its reverse? Should not agricultural holdings also comply with the Water Framework Directive for access to support? Should not the National Water Conservation Plan focus more on these large consumers than on individual and urban intervention? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u27	You have the floor to answer the requests for clarification, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u28	Mr President, I would like to thank all the Members and all the Members. Members who asked questions and made the considerations which they understood were relevant in this area of drought and climate change, but I would like to answer some questions that were specifically asked, particularly by Mrs Cecilia Meireles, about what is important to do immediately. in the immediate future, having in fact been several things to do and without forgetting to tackle the structural problem, as the honourable Member mentioned, there is extraordinary support that has to be given to farmers who do not go through the anticipation of support to be given from here to time. On the other hand, there is an immediate work which we consider essential to make effective the use of certain resources which are fundamental, particularly water. It's a problem you can't stay after. It is an opportunity, if you like, so that we can go on the path to generating individual and collective behaviors that can save this resource. It is time to do it, but, Mrs. Member, I also tell you: the solution does not go through that which, through you gentlemen, passed in 2012, which was just to have faith that it rains! That can't be our posture!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u29	Ask Cristos a queen!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u30	By the way, let me tell you something else. I do not know why the CDS did not present in the Assembly of the Republic, just in 2012, the draft resolution—which I have not yet had the opportunity to see in detail—is now presenting.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u31	There were measures in place!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u32	It is that in 2012, as I recall, there was also a very sharp drought problem and at the time the government's responses to farmers were not the best either. On the question of water reserves, Mr Renato Sampaio, I am also not in favour of becoming the country into a water reserve! The reservations we already have are sufficient, the problem is that they do not fill if they do not rain and the problem is that our international rivers are lacking water if Spain retains water from these international rivers. from then that the Greens effectively defend the re-evaluation of the Albufeira Convention, because it is a fundamental issue, especially at this time we are living. I would also like to mention, on some of the issues which Mr Carlos Barros has raised about the need for energy saving and water saving, which saves, to make effective behaviours with a view to the preservation of resources, in our view, is fundamental. Mr President, you know that there is no shortage of Green initiatives on this subject here in the Assembly of the Republic. On the other hand, it is essential to bet on energy microproduction. The future goes through, not by megalomania, but by micro-production, especially at the solar level. I would also like to say that I agree with the question raised by Mr João Ramos about the need to take into account the characteristics of the country and to enhance agricultural crops in view of its characteristics, because what is...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u33	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u34	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, what is endogenous and what we import means, in terms of production, precisely spending more resources to produce them and, on the other hand, we also have a strong concern about desertification and the conditions and resources that are adapted to respond to this problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u35	You have the floor to give the second political statement this afternoon, Mr José Cesario, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The government has given us, in recent days, with another remarkable decision, as well as a demonstration of the way in which government and public administration are viewed. The Director and the Deputy Director of the Foreign and Source Service have been removed, allegedly because they have not met the objectives of the Government. Now last week, we all heard in this House Mr Prime Minister vehemently assume, as is his habit, his conviction that the CRESAP (Recruitment and Selection Committee for Public Administration) was good things done in the past, that is, appointments are based on competency criteria. They are yours, and only yours, the words addressed to my colleague Hugo Soares on the pretext of a case of screaming compassion that occurred in Ovar. Don't you trust CRESAP? Has he stopped being good? Well, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, how is it possible to reconcile this sound statement with the resignation of Luísa Maia Gonçalves?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u37	I'm reading her!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u38	CRESAP is used to designate with exemption, awarding the competence, but to resign or, if we wish, to cause a resignation is no longer in question the capacity, merely a political decision. To this, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it is called political sanitation! [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] The same political sanitation to which hundreds of public administration leaders have been subjected in these two years, all appointed with the opinion of CRESAP. However, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is worth focusing on this particular case: what reasons did you have for the departure of Luísa Maia Gonçalves? According to what has been disclosed, such a CL will be due to failure to meet objectives, in particular taking into account the new law of foreigners, exactly that law which had deserved a negative technical opinion of the SEF. The fact is that the SEF has limited itself to fulfilling its mission, warning the protection that the amendments proposed by the CFP and the Left Block involve serious risks to internal security, preventing the deportation of clearly dangerous citizens, and causing an increase in the deregulation of the migration process. This is how such boldness is now paid with this departure. The sacred alliance of the PS with the extreme left thus determined it. Now, the entire Public Administration knows that anyone who disagrees—I repeat, simply 'dispute'—of the PCP and the Left Block are at risk of being removed. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] Thus, the offence of opinion is enshrined in the Portuguese Public Administration. This is what SEF leaders know, but also teachers, doctors, nurses, registry officials, police, finally, all public officials. Today, the Portuguese know that the holy PS / Left Block / PCP alliance, besides feasting at the State Budget table, satisfying their preferred customers, does not hesitate to heal anyone who opposes their intentions, however incomprehensible they are. This will be the return to the sinister years 1975 and 1976, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen? [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] Will the totalitarian and intolerant line that Sá Carneiro and Mário Soares fought during the PREC be avenged in government action? Mrs. Socialist and leftist Members, we are well aware that these kinds of intentions will be combated by the PSD with all our forces, side by side with the Portuguese, and we will never be ashamed of the totalitarian and demagogic strategies that can only compromise democracy. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in any case, we want to make it clear that for us, Social Democrats, there is only one way to deal with the phenomenon of migration: with humanist solidarity, but with the necessary regulation to avoid social and human imbalances. It is worth recalling the words of Gomes Canotilho and Vital Moreira, for whom non-nationals do not enjoy an absolute right to remain in national territory, and it is clear that the most serious occasional criminal often takes advantage of the legal mechanisms to protect himself from expulsion. [[Protests by PS Member Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.]] That is how we refuse any provision which may undermine the safety of citizens, which is administratively maintaining foreign citizens convicted of socially serious crimes in Portugal. To be social-democrat is this: it is to be humanist, creating conditions for the movement of people, protecting migrants who, legitimately and legally, want to restore their lives, but in a responsible way. That is what we always demand for the Portuguese who live in other countries. We don't give up! If the PS abdicates from fundamental principles which, for years, have ensured broad consensus on these matters, the problem is theirs. But it is indisputable that such a position is contrary to the interest of the Portuguese. We sincerely recommend that the Socialist Government pay more attention to the lives of the Portuguese people, taking greater responsibility for more actions and less words, with their safety, their employment and their quality of life. Perhaps it is not wrong to abandon the demagogic rhetoric of recent times and restore, for example, the missing means to firefighters and civil protection, the forest vigilantes who have stopped monitoring the forest, the rescue swimmers...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u39	Would you like to finish, Mr. Deputies, please?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u40	... that are missing to protect the thousands of people who continue to attend our beaches, the human resources at the Institute of Registers and Notariado, the resources of hospitals, etc. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. Let's be serious, ladies and gentlemen. Socialist Members, this of the PCP and the Left Block have lost in the polls and have to be consoled fraternally by the hill of your government, at the expense of the Portuguese and competent public officials such as Luísa Maia Gonçalves is a shame! [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u41	Mr José Cesario, the Bureau records four entries for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u42	I will answer two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u43	All right. To make a first request for clarification, Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if there is anyone in this House who broke a national consensus it was Mr José Cesario, through the intervention he has just spoken. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Indeed, associating crime with immigration is in the annals of what the worst populism can produce and what does not correspond to the matrix of all the parties represented in Parliament and which, fortunately, does not also correspond to the matrix of the Social Democratic Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I quote a political officer sitting on the PSD bench and who, with all ownership, said not long ago that associating immigration with terrorism and crime is wrong, demagogic, reducing and extremely dangerous. I can use these words with conviction because I agree with them and agree with what Mr Feliciano Barreiras Duarte has said about this. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But populism doesn't stay around, it goes a little further. The expulsion regime in no way has changed. What was changed was a densification of Article 135. that of the Law, as all technical opinions recognize, also stressing what is obvious — and that it should be for everyone: the Portuguese State is linked to the international conventions it subscribes, international conventions which guarantee, in many circumstances, that expulsion cannot take place when there are relatives. And this expulsion which you propose to reintroduce has been voted on and approved unanimously by all the parties represented here. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u45	Therefore, it is lack of coherence, lack of memory or a mixture of both, very little virtuous. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, fortunately, ridicule does not kill, otherwise we should have connected to INEM — I must tell you that there is no totalitarianism. Indeed, if you had had the work of reading the legislation on CRESAP and the appointment of leadership positions, you would very easily find that, from time to time, in Article 25. the, an approved provision still in the time of socialist governance, but then renewed in the time of governance of the PSD and the CDS, it is always and in particular expected that it is possible to cease a commission of service when the leaders do not follow the guidelines that are set out above. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u46	Because, in spite of everything, in a democratic rule of law, Mrs and Mrs. Members, it is the popular will expressed in the polls, which translates into the composition of Parliament and the governments that support it, which set out the political guidelines, which assume that the leaders have in relation to them the duty of translation and realisation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u47	Would you like to finish, Mr. Deputies, please?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u48	I will finish, Mr. President. Yes, it is true that the leader is selected by a process that ensures that he meets the technical requirements to be appointed, but that does not arrive for the performance of functions, when he manifestly disagrees and contradicts what, democratically — I stress, democratically — citizens decided to put in the law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u49	To make a request for clarification, Mr António Filipe of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u50	Mr. President, Mr. Right-wing Member José Cesario... [[Laughing.]] We realized, by his intervention, that the PSD congress has already begun and unfortunately it seems that the competition will be blocked on the right — unfortunately! Mr José Cesario, we will have an opportunity next Tuesday to discuss on 1st. the Commission, with the Minister of Internal Administration, the problem of the resignation of the Director of the SEF. We are going to discuss this issue, with all our depth, with the parliamentary groups that want to do so,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u51	He's quiet today!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u52	... discussing all the details that Mr. Members intend to discuss and will, of course, have the opportunity to know the reasons for the Minister and to deepen this issue as well as understand. Moreover, this is the inalienable function of the Assembly of the Republic, it is a right of all parliamentary groups. In fact, the honourable Member has made a deplorable approach to the amendment to the immigration law, since the wording adopted here in relation to the question which you have put, the deportations, does not go as far as the wording that existed until 2012 and that you have always approved. Therefore, what was restored highlights the issue of terrorism, which was not saved in 2012. Do you think that the country, by 2012, has stopped deporting someone who, from your point of view, should be deported? Was there any public security problem arising from the drafting of the immigration law, from the human limits established for deportations until 2012? There was, no, Mr. Deputies. What happened is that the formulation that you approved in 2012 took your moral authority to criticize authorities, such as those of the United States of America, who deported citizens to the Azores, citizens who had never lived there and who had always been created in their host countries, who did not know anyone there, had no family there and were inhumanly deported. That is what you agreed to include in Portuguese legislation. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u53	Would you like to finish, Mr. Deputies, please?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u54	I will finish, Mr. President. The honourable Member, who here represents the interests of the Portuguese communities, should think about this, should think that the best interest of the Portuguese communities abroad is to have non-human legislation in Portugal. And the rule adopted in 2012 was -- it's all right. Mr President, do not go through the worst path in the adoption of conceptions which, in fact, are not worthy of what has been our country's political discourse and political practice on immigration. Don't give it up, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, they don't go along populist and unworthy paths to our country. [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u55	In response to these two requests for clarification, Mr Cesario has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have learned that Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has prepared the question, probably at lunchtime, and has forgotten to go to the essential issue that is at stake, which is to know why they have healed the Director of the SEF, Luisa Maia Gonçalves. Why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? This is what's at stake, unless you're here to say that you're sorry you've hit the parties on the left. There's something strange here, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. Let's see if we understand each other. We already realize that things don't work out very well on this side, but the gentlemen. Members have to be clear and explain to the Portuguese, with borderline, because a leader, considered by you, has been politically sound, she and all the other leaders of the Foreign and Border Service, which calls into question the structure itself, discrediting it and withdrawing its authority. The gentlemen gave in to the totalitarian hurricane coming from the left. There's a competition there to figure out if the hurricane is Jerome or Catarina! We'll be there to see that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u57	You also prepared very well at lunch time!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u58	Here we are to see, gentlemen. Members, however, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves responds categorically. The Socialist Party has to tell the Portuguese because it called into question the competence of a director of the Public Administration to give in to the claims, to the demands of the extreme left. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u59	To make a request for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Sandra Cunha, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u60	Mr President, Mr José Cesario, it is a shame what the PSD has come here today. It would be hoped that they would abandon this anti-immigrant populist discourse, anti-foreigners after André Ventura's electoral defeat, but not. [[Congratulations from BE.]] It seems that the legacy of Pedro Passos Coelho, with this populist speech, is what the PSD wants to continue to maintain, also in this House. The PSD, with its intervention, only shows that it remains absolutely insensitive to the problems of immigrants, of workers, of those who come to this country looking for a better life, of those who often come to this country seeking to save life, people who work, who contribute to the country's productivity and who make their discounts, their contributions in tax and social security and who want only to regularize their situation, having been prevented from doing so because of the discretion of the SEF. The amendments introduced to the Law, through the legislative initiative of the Left Block, have precisely reduced this discretion of the SEF. Therefore, they were made in the strictest compliance of the law. PSD and CDS have never cared about the increase in calls or the potential risk to internal security arising from golden visas,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u61	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u62	...when we know that golden visas often serve to whiten situations of money laundering or tax evasion, among other more serious crimes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u63	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u64	With these, you don't care. Your target is really the workers, the poorest people and those who come to this country try to build their lives. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u65	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u66	I'm done now, Mr. President. with regard to the SEF, although the PSD wants to oppose this House, and by the way, it cannot do it through institutions such as the SEF, the truth is that the SEF has to limit itself to compliance with the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u67	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u68	The SEF is not an advisory body, it is a service that must comply with the law, and that is what must be done only. The SEF cannot be a force to block the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u69	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u70	Are you concerned only about the democratic legality of the institutions when it comes to foreigners and immigrants? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u71	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u72	Mr President, Mr Cesario, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on the subject which has brought us here and which is causing so much emotion, not to say even concussion, on the leftmost leftmost. We have heard extraordinary things from Mrs Sandra Cunha, of course, speaking of a security service such as the SEF as a blocking force. I already quote other figures, saying that a security service that defends national interest and security is a blocking force.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u73	I was!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u74	This says everything about the left and the problem that the left and the Left Block have with security, with whom they defend the security of all of us. Say it all! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests from BE José Moura Soeiro.]] The honourable Member speaks of a question which I consider central and nuclear in a state of democratic law, which has to do with precisely the re-editing of the times when someone who is very responsible for the PS, and it seems he has made doctrine, said "Who is messing with the PS, takes! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” And that's what's at stake.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u75	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u76	A year ago, the director of the air accident investigation office said he had no means. What happened? He took it! You're fired, you're fine! It doesn't matter, it's incompetent. [[Supported!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u77	What does the Director-General of the SEF do? It ratified a legal opinion of the services, cautioning that there is a law that the Minister will approve against the opinions of the services that safeguard and alert, as its function is, which is thus disauthorizing its services. And what happens? Mrs. Minister resigns her. Take it! Take it too! [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u78	We have the PS always, Mr. José Cesario. Those who are called owners of democracy, when they have the power to know well how not to exercise it, it is appropriate to say. This is as serious as we now have a Minister of Internal Administration who does everything, does everything but not what he should do for the safety of Portuguese. He does everything to keep himself in place, and to keep himself in place, he has to please the left.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u79	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u80	I will finish, Mr. President. She is a minister who confuses trust with vassalage, independence with disloyalty, competence with subservience and authority with authoritarianism. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u81	So, honourable Member, I ask: are you, or are you not, this Minister over and over a long time ago? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u82	To reply, Mr José Cesario has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u83	Mr President, Mrs Sandra Cunha and Mr Nuno Magalhães, what is a shame is to allow a service of the Public Administration and its directors to be dismissed for merely fulfilling their duty, i.e. to warn about the risks involved in certain legislation. [[PSD applause.]] Since when is it compatible with a democratic rule of law that someone who does his duty, who issues a technical opinion, is penalized in this way? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u84	Only in the context of these and with the convivience of the Socialist Party. We are going to see who gave in to whom, but the truth is that this situation, Mrs Deputies, is truly a shame, because it calls into question national security, despicableness and questions the whole public administration, Mrs Deputies. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] On the other hand, Mrs Sandra Cunha, explains here why the Left Block does not list in its demands before the Socialist Government the desire to provide the consular network, the Portuguese consulates, of sufficient means for them to be able to adequately address visa demand, those who want, in a legal and correct manner, to emigrate to Portugal? Why? [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] This situation has deteriorated in a decisive way in the last two years! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you will ask those who knock at the door of the consulates of Brazil or North America if you can be treated. But you do not put this issue in your political priorities, because what you are interested in is to claim here by those who have entered the national territory irregularly. And, therefore, they do not hesitate to question the service which deals with and which alerts these questions categorically and correctly. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] I regret only that the Socialist Party is not able to really distinguish what is a correct stance, a state stance from what is a merely partisan stance of the Public Administration. We, the positions we stand for, strengthened them on the basis of what is transmitted to us every day by the Portuguese who have emigrated and worked, in a certain and correct way, to build their lives, and they are the first to tell us: "Don't abandon a line of demand, rigor and coherence." It is on behalf of this line that we denounce these situations, which clearly call into question the rule of law, the authority of the State and institutions and leaders who are competent in the context of the Public Administration. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u85	For a political statement, Mrs Luísa Salgueiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The decentralization of competences for local authorities is one of the major challenges that the Assembly of the Republic must face at the legislative session which is now beginning. The democratic local power is one of the main achievements of 25 April and much of the development that the country presents today is due to the work done by the local authorities. in the first phase, the municipal chambers and parish boards performed the cyclical task of infrastructure a impoverished country that the old regime has linked. It was necessary to build basic sanitation, electricity and water supply networks. It was necessary to guarantee the full right to housing, to build schools and sports equipment. It is now time to move on to a new era of democratic local power in Portugal. It is public and has been widely affirmed by the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ( ANMP ) that the recessive policies implemented in a recent past have created extreme difficulties for local authorities at the level of their financing and their own autonomy, as happened with the law that proceeded to the administrative reorganization of the territory of the parish. Without revisiting this process, but aware of the serious social and political consequences that the Socialist Party has generated, the Socialist Party welcomes all the authorships of the Frequencies Unions of our country, as pillars of the democratic local power, which, on October 1st, appeared at the polls and were elected... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... for four years of dedication and commitment to their populations. We also congratulate the mayors, councillors and municipal Members who have been commissioned throughout the country to strengthen the proximity policy that local power is consistent. We must not forget that we owe the autarchs the development of our councils through infrastructure, social, educational, cultural and economic promotion that has been advocated with populations, public and private entities, democratizing our territories, shortening distances, defending identities and implementing a policy of proximity between voters and voters. For all these reasons, the Socialist Party has always trusted the local power, the autarchs and the voters' choices for the commitments they make in each electoral act. And as a recognition of the trust and legitimacy that we have always placed in local power, the current Government presented in the previous Legislative Session a proposal for decentralization due to the strict fulfilment of the commitments made in its electoral programme. Now, after the elections of 1 October, the Assembly of the Republic must return to the debate around the decentralization of competences for local authorities, in order to enable the authorities to have a close governance, in order to create a more efficient management of resources, strengthen local democracy, reorganise and simplify the various levels of decision-making of the State, ending with existing overlaps and assigning to the most qualified bodies, the chambers and the parish, the increased responsibility to respond to the specific needs of citizens and with greater effectiveness. Let us not forget that it is the authorities who know in depth and in particular their territories, their populations, and their needs in terms of services and public infrastructure that guarantee quality responses, optimized and adapted to local realities. With Bill No 62 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ), which establishes the framework for the transfer of competences to local authorities and inter-municipal entities, the Government has made available to undertake a genuine reform of the State, with the aim of strengthening and deepening local autonomy, creating greater proximity between political decision makers, citizens and territories, ensuring efficiency and effectiveness in the services provided to citizens, ensuring that all throughout the country have access to the same public services and enjoy the full range of their citizenship rights, increasing the participation of authorities in public revenue. Other proposals were made by other parties seated in this House. Dear Members, the desire is common and must be taken from now on by all, valuing the joint work done between the Government, the National Association of Municipalities and the National Association of Freguesias (ANAFRE ) in defined areas of action. Bill No 62 / XIII ( 2 ) a ) consists a profound reform of the State responding to the legitimate and valid aspirations of the autarchs and populations who have claimed more autonomy for local power as an objective response to the needs of people and territories and to the realization of policies that mitigate regional asymmetries, promoting equal opportunities among all citizens. We defend this administrative reform from the very first moment and with complete openness, seeking to obtain the maximum common denominator to establish the appropriate framework for transfers of competences to local authorities and to inter-municipal entities. It is essential to adopt a framework law that effectively underpins the real administrative reform of the State, with new competences and a new generation of authentic public policies that deepen and improve the pursuit of collective needs. A transfer of competences that is accompanied by the respective human and financial resources that enable the realization of this national wish. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For more than a decade, I have had the honour and personal realization of being a Member of Parliament. I was elected in a country where women who had abortions were still punished with imprisonment and where the presence of women in the political representation organs was little less than residual. A country where equality between men and women reflected in the Constitution still took time, in so many cases, to see itself materialized in so many planes of our civic and daily life.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u87	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u88	I'm done now, Mr. President. It will certainly be a lot to do, but I am leaving today with the certainty that my pre-adolescent daughter will know a better world than I have known, with the hope that she herself will have all the conditions to become a full-body citizen, as well as everyone in her generation. Thanks also to what this House, every day, is building. when I leave Parliament, because the citizens of my land have given me the high honor to make me its president — the first woman of many who will follow me in the history of Matosinhos —... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... it is with indisputable satisfaction that I anticipate the construction of a less centralist, more decentralized country, where the infinite possibilities of the principle of subsidiarity are, in fact, reality, so do this Assembly of the Republic. I will not vote for these laws now, but believe me, I will applaud you enthusiastically when you do so. Thank you all very much. [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u89	I would like to thank the honourable Member, as coordinator of the work of this Bureau and on behalf of the House, of course, for my compliance with this report, for all Members and all Members who will no longer be Members, for the fantastic services they have provided to Portuguese democracy in this context. [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]] Madam Member, the Bureau shall record four requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u90	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u91	That being the case, to ask for clarification, Mr. João Vasconcelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u92	Mr President, Mrs Salgueiro, I would like to thank you for bringing us the subject of decentralization, but I would also like to congratulate you and wish you the greatest happiness in the new position you will perform, that of the camera president. On decentralization, we all know that over the past 40 years of the April Revolution, Portugal remains one of the most centralist countries in Europe. We know that about 90 % of the State's financial resources are consumed by the central State and only 10 % of these funds are allocated to the authorities, so the principle of subsidiarity is called into question. The Constitution itself advocates decentralization and the principle of subsidiarity and defends the decentralization of competences for the authorities, the parish, the municipalities and the regions, i.e. for the organs elected directly by the people, with what the Left Block agrees, because we do not yet have administrative regions. in the proposed framework law presented in the previous Legislative Session, the Government brought a package of measures to decentralise, among them many with which the Left Block agrees and others with which it does not agree. These powers were so vast that they would need a much deeper discussion, but when the government tried to approve this framework law, these powers, the Left Block could never give such support. We understand that effective decentralization without regionalisation is not, indeed, serious decentralization, and in the documents to which all parliamentary groups have access, on the part of the Government there is not a single word, for a more or less distant or short period of time, on regionalisation. In fact, we also believe that there must be no decentralisation of competences.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u93	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u94	... for non-elected bodies directly, such as inter-municipal communities (IMCs). The question I would like to leave to Mrs Deputies is whether, given the fact that many parties, including the Left Block, did not agree with that process - we actually agree with many matters - the Socialist Party will be prepared to continue with the issue of decentralization together with the PSD. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u95	Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u96	Mr President, Mrs Luísa Salgueiro, I begin by complimenting you very sincerely for your election as President of the Municipality of Matosinhos, wishing you an excellent mandate successfully for yourself and, above all, for the well-being of the citizens of Matosinhos. I therefore hope that everything will go well over the next four years, thanking you, of course, all that you have done — even if most of the time we were on the opposite sides — as a Member of the Assembly of the Republic. in what I think will be your last intervention, we have heard the honourable Member talk about the virtues of socialist decentralization. As for this process of decentralization, which the PS has developed, we have also heard the Government and the Socialist Party, for many months, mention the importance of this reform, but only in March of this year has entered this House a diploma on the same subject: a proposal for a framework law, with general principles and important abstracts, but nothing concrete about what will be done. And in such a process, although it has been repeatedly requested, the Government has not submitted a single opinion on the diagnosis of human, technical, financial and organisational means, deficiencies and impacts of the whole process, nor even the preparatory work of the review of the Local Finance Act.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u97	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u98	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u99	The calls for caution and consideration in the adoption of this legislation come from all sides, from the entities heard by the Working Party on Decentralisation, the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, from the representatives of the metropolitan areas—and now, in particular, from the President of the Lisbon Metropolitan Council, who has mentioned that in Portugal if you want to do what many countries have taken 40 years to do in months, and also from the Members of the Council of Lisbon. Presidents of the CIS and even trade unions. The CDS believes that it is the duty of this Parliament to adopt a decentralisation of competences which is concrete, which guarantees the necessary means, financial, material and human resources, to fully fulfil the new functions by all Portuguese municipalities. The first question that I leave to the honourable Member — and now to the Members of the Socialist Group — is whether the honourable Members are present. Members are now wishing to comply very quickly with the will of the President of the Chamber of Lisbon, who, in his speech on 5 October last year, ordered this House to complete the process by the end of the year...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u100	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u101	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u102	... or if, in fact, they want a decentralization that serves the country and its population. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u103	For the third request for clarification, Mrs Berta Cabral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u104	Mr President, Mrs Salgueiro, I would like to begin by complimenting you and welcoming you for your election and wishing you an excellent job, for the benefit of the people who will serve and who, of course, have a huge expectation in relation to all the authentic work, precisely because, as you said, the work of proximity is fundamental, the work that the authorities develop for the well-being of the people and for the development of their territories. We all recognize this reality and therefore the PSD, since the first hour, has a position that maintains: it is intransigently defending decentralization. Do it in government, through inter-administrative contracts, and do it now in opposition, because it was the first party to present a draft law on decentralization in January 2017, and only later did the other parties come to accompany him in this matter. I must also recall that our project was generally approved while the others went down to the Commission without a vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u105	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u106	So we have evidence on this, we are where we have always been and we have maintained the position we have always had: we want decentralization, but we do not want to be irresponsible. We do not confuse decentralisation with de-responsibility, so we must be sure that all means are transferred and that all conditions are given for the authorities to be able to perform the new functions that will be transferred to them. That's essential. It is essential for us, ladies and gentlemen, that it is essential for the autarchs and for the honourable Member, that you will now understand better, because of the responsibility you will assume, that it is essential that these conditions be guaranteed. These conditions have been laid down by the PSD since the first hour, but the fact is that the government has been late in the process and, until the parliamentary holidays, it has not submitted all the sectoral decrees relating to the regulation of the bill nor has it submitted any study on the whole process of decentralisation. In addition, a proposal has been submitted by the PCP and another by us, PSD, to require studies and sectoral diplomas and, essentially, to request the proposal for the Local Finance Act. It is essential to know the whole legislative framework that will govern transfers to municipalities. Otherwise, we can embark on a process that, being irreversible, will create huge problems for our autarchs and thus cannot count, because we are not going around. We want decentralization, but we want responsible decentralization, which guarantees the conditions for the authorities to exercise their responsibilities properly. This is what we want.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u107	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u108	I'm done now, Mr. President. Therefore, the question that I am leaving, in particular, is whether, not only as a Member of Parliament but also now, as a future chamber president, does not accompany us in the understanding that this process is too serious to be done without knowing all the implications and without having any knowledge of all the diplomas that will govern decentralization. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u109	For the last request for clarification, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u110	Mr President, Mrs Luísa Salgueiro, I would also like to congratulate you on the role you will now perform and welcome you on the subject which, in your last speech, brought about the debate in the Assembly of the Republic. The issues of decentralisation for the CFP — we have already said — are matters of great importance, which naturally require a comprehensive look at the administrative organisation of the State. For us, in this question of decentralization, when we look at the administrative organization of the State, we must look at its various levels: the national level, the regional level and the local level. The fact is that there is a great absence here, which is the administrative regions, and this is something that we consider to be of the most fundamental importance and that must also be present in this debate. Then, when we talk about decentralization, proximity to the populations, which, of course, is a value that we also recognize and value, we cannot fail to regret the position taken by the PS, the PSD and the CDS when we brought the vote in the Assembly of the Republic the return of the parish where that will be the will of the population. Madam Member, if proximity is so important, then why don't we start by returning the parish to the populations where they demand it? [[Congratulations from the PCP and the Deputy Greens Heloísa Apollonia.]] We now miss an opportunity to do so in the elections that took place a few days ago. I would also like to mention the following: to decentralize also means to transfer autonomy, to transfer power, not only to execute but also to decide, and, contrary to what has been put several times on issues of proximity, the central issue in this process of decentralization is the conditions. In her speech, she said that the powers would be accompanied by human and financial resources. But before we identify the competences, we should not define here what procedure, what conditions, what objectives, what criteria, what principles should correspond to a process of decentralization? Oh, my God! Will there be territorial cohesion? Better public services? Won't it mean deresponsibility on the part of the government? Will it not call into question the social functions of the State which are fundamental? In fact, these are aspects which, from our point of view, are not assured, until we have talked several times about the need to know what is on the table, which is being discussed. I mean, when we talk about education, what are we talking about? What is the concrete reality of today? What is the point of the situation? What are the needs? What's the evolution? Indeed, we have not yet known these means.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u111	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u112	Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to ask the honourable Member: for the House of the Republic to take a serious decision, with the responsibility that this matter requires, does not he think that it is also essential that the studies which the CFP Parliamentary Group has already requested and that he still expects the Government to send us, so that we can be equipped with all the information and all the conditions for making a decision on this matter? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u113	To answer, you have the floor to Mrs Luísa Salgueiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u114	Mr President, I begin by thanking all Members and all Members. Ladies and gentlemen, the congratulations they have given me and also the questions they have raised on decentralisation, underlining the fact that it has been made very clear in all the interventions accompanying this need and the desire to decentralization of competences for local authorities. I believe that this is the most important thing, that is, the fact that all banks are committed to achieving this reform that the Portuguese State currently needs, because, in the stage where we are, it is essential that the authorities continue to have this work of proximity, but that, of course, they are given more resources, whether they are human, they are financial, so that they can develop the skills that we now want to transfer to them. on the question of studies, of course, that the Socialist Party's bench understands that, like other matters, these subjects of crucial importance must be taken fully aware of all the information necessary so that they can not only be taken well at the time of their approval but above all, have the applicability to become truly effective after approval and that the author and the responsible have the conditions to develop them in a day-to-day manner, and thus serve the people better. But I cannot fail to point out that if the right banks, PSD and CDS, understand that this proposal was submitted late, perhaps it would have been more appropriate not to have adopted in the legislature prior to the position of true asphyxiation that they had with respect to local authorities,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... in particular with the law of late commitments and payments, which prevented the operation of the authorities,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u115	It's been two years!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u116	... with the approval of a law that was taken at the expense of all the opinions of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities and ANAFRE. Therefore, by attempting to ignore this process, you cannot now say that you are very concerned about the local authorities, when, apart from the attitude of the current government, local authorities would experience very difficult times, as a result of the options that the previous government has adopted. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u117	Surely the Portuguese and the autoarchs are not forgotten, and these brands, unfortunately, are still very present in Portuguese life. But we are aware that, with this new position and the contributions of all, it will be possible at last to approve the new framework of decentralization, that which does not leave regionalisation aside, which I am particularly grateful for and which the Socialist Party has always defended. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u118	So what we are doing is a great advance in what — I repeat and I stress — has been done in recent years, and surely after we have passed this phase we will have conditions for, clearly and fundamentally, we will take this step, not forgetting also the regionalization, which will be important and decisive for the true Portugal developed in the twenty-first century, which we all defend. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u119	Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The events that we have seen since the beginning of this week in the Tejo crossing, in the transport service provided by Soflusa between the Barreiro and Lisbon, are the image of the chaos that led years of disinvestment in public transport. You know what's going on. Since Monday and, according to what is announced, during this week, only four of the eight ships are at service, while the rest are in maintenance or repair. The consequence is obvious: fewer ships in the river, hundreds of passengers on land. In addition to the natural and understandable revolt of the passengers who use the ships of the Soflusa, who do not understand why half of the fleet was off duty from one week to the other, the advice of the board of directors on the matter was gasoline for the fire, which justifies the revolt. In fact, the administration published a recommendation saying that people should avoid trips from the Barreiro to Lisbon between 8 and 9 hours. If this was part of a film, we would say we were in the presence of a surreal scene worthy of the Felinian style, but, no, this is the sign that there are too many wrong things in this real story. If we really talk about the concrete life of thousands of men and women who use daily transportation to work, this is the time to find solutions for the public transport service globally, particularly for rivers in the Tejo and the Lisbon Metropolitan Area. in the Soflusa, this situation is a reflection of the strategy of the previous administration, mandated by the PSD/CDS government, to privatize the transport service, which led to the sale of a ship, Augusto Gil — which is now needed — and to refuse to make maintenance investments in the rest, ensuring the essential certificates of navigation. at this precise moment, it is because there are no renewed navigational certificates that this situation arises, which increases even more the perplexity of the situation, which is not a surprise, since it is already known that it would happen. This is well described in a communiqué issued on 9 October by the Trader Shipping Union (TSFCMM ). Therefore, it is absolutely incomprehensible the recommendation of the administration so that people do not use boats this week. Will the Soflus not, in particular in its board of directors, be obliged to provide an alternative transport service, for example by road, to drive over-the-buses people to Cacilhas or even to Lisbon? Or does the administration remember only alternative transport when there are workers' strikes? That would certainly not solve the problem, but would minimize it. Attention, because a similar situation also occurs in the Transtejo. In this case too, the previous government sold the Martim Moniz ship to the wreck and expired several navigability certificates under the same strategy of preparation for privatization. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The overcoming of the difficulties left by the PSD/CDS Government only resolve with the strengthening of public investment in public transport, in particular in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, to renew and modernize fleets, to expand metropolitan networks, both on the north and south margins, to improve and modernise the service of trains on the main lines of the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon and to, globally, offer more public transport, with more quality and frequency and at a more affordable and fair price. [[Congratulations from BE.]] These are the strategic challenges that the Government has to face now and not only from 2021 onwards. There can be no more excuses for not unlocking public investment from the next State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u121	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u122	The Assembly of the Republic gave clear signs to the Government in July and September, approving, in some cases by unanimity and in others by a large majority and without votes against, a set of investments in public transport, in particular railways, covering various links and transport networks that are absolutely lacking in modernisation and requalification. This week's events remind us that river transport and the strengthening of the supply of means cannot be absent from this equation. In short, a strategy to promote public transport to improve the quality of mobility of citizens and the quality of life of cities in the metropolitan area of Lisbon and public investment as a determining instrument for the implementation of this strategy. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u123	Five were registered. Members to request clarification, PSD, PS, PCP, The Greens and the CDS. How does Mr. Heitor Sousa intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u124	First to a group of two and then to the other three, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u125	Thus, and in order of registration, it is up to the PSD to request clarifications. Mr António Costa Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u126	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank Mr Heitor Sousa for bringing this matter to the debate today, because it is an emerging issue. But I had the expectation that the Member of the Left Block Heitor Sousa would bring here his act of contrition or, then, an apology to the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u127	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u128	Why it is very simple, Mr President, it is very simple: you are two years ago — I repeat, two years ago — to support the Government of the Socialist Party. You have responsibilities in this story.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u129	That's not our responsibility!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u130	I also know what song comes next, it's the song of the past, but of the time of the emergency, of the time of the troika,... [[Protests by Members of BE Joana Mortagua and The Greens Heloísa Apollonia.]] ... of the time we were subject to the rescue of the responsibility of your friends of the Socialist Party. Do you know something, Mr? in this time, there was none of this. There were no tourniquets to be missed, there were no collapsed doors, there were no police at the door, there was no INEM (National Institute of Medical Emergency) waiting to see the misfortune of other citizens. There wasn't any of this in those days. But, honourable Member, in the critical times when we were subjected to the ransom, and this country has suffered immensely, it is true, because of the guilt and responsibility of your friends of the Socialist Party, and in the time when we had countless strikes, every day, nothing of this happened, Mr! Now that you are in the government, I ask, do you not discuss these matters at your secret and clandestine meetings? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u131	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u132	Is it just the State Budget? Doesn't that matter? Oh, my God! This is a fundamental matter! [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] Mr. Deputies, are you here talking about responsible, but is it the PSD and the CDS that have responsibility? Oh, my God! It's been two years. The problem isn't just today or yesterday and it's not just the Soflusa. The problems are many: lack of paper for the ballistics; roller ladders at many metro stations that do not work, even here at foot, in the Long Mouse ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u133	It wasn't working anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u134	...many trains or means of trains running around there trapped by wires...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u135	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u136	We have no responsibility, you are. You have to give us an explanation of what you are doing for this country, because I'm sure there's a lot of hiding there that you don't talk about. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u137	To request clarification, Mr André Pinotes Batista has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u138	Mr President, Mr Heitor Sousa, thank you very much for bringing this matter to debate and I thank you for making it clear to me that in 2015 he did not have the strength to explain to the then Prime Minister of Portugal, who was a shareholder of the Transtejo and Soflusa, which if he did not comply with the maintenance plan, certainly was a situation that we would come to. When I heard Mr Costa Silva's speech, I realized that he has no idea what Soflusa and Transtejo is. [[The PSD member Antonio Costa Silva's laughs.]] I am very sorry, but your speech would fit for this or any other reality. [[PSD MP Protests António Costa Silva.]] This logic of absurdity reminds the figure of the mad hatter, when he said: "I see what I eat, but not what I see! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” I am sorry, but you will certainly not be aware that there was a need for nine vessels, and at the moment we have only four running. But this has reason to be, and is not a song of the past, is a maintenance plan that in 2015 was not fulfilled, is a maintenance plan that had a cut of 5 to 3 million euros by indication of the shareholder state. [[No, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u139	The Government then decided that it might not be important to carry out the maintenance plan, knowing — and you will also know, if you want to have a politically serious debate — that the market, as far as shipyards are concerned, does not allow such a wide offer, which enables one day to solve the situations that have been left... [[PSD protests.]] ...because austerity has effects on the retarder, not all austerity can be repaired immediately. And it's not serious for you to make such a light approach. River transport, when it does not work, constitutes a psychological barrier to people. from there the importance of the subject brought here, because this psychological and physical barrier prevents people from being able to comply with their daily lives, and this is a right of mobility that we have to ensure. But it must be very, very, very clear about this. People need immediate answers and Mr Heitor Sousa has already had the opportunity to talk about some of them, including alternative transport.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u140	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u141	I shall finish, Mr President, by asking the honourable Member whether he does not think that immediate payment could be a solution, even if there are limitations. I end by saying that we need to speak seriously, that we need to be serious about politics. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u142	To reply, Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u143	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking the questions of Mr António Costa Silva and Mr André Pinotes Batista. Firstly, replying to Mr Costa Silva, I must say that the intervention deserves a comment and a suggestion. The comment is that the gentlemen. PSD members, and also those of the CDS, by chance, have a sort of box of argument which, regularly a year ago, to this part, shoot the parties that support the current government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u144	Oh! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u145	Cassette is on the PCP, we are already more evolved!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u146	... as if they did not recognize the individuality of each party, even if there is support to the Government in respect of the budgetary policies and the substantive policies that have been pursued. There are a set of sectoral policies which, of course, have individual proposals and positions of each party and the only thing that is necessary is to hear and try to discuss its applicability and relevance. Mr António Costa Silva repeats to the exhaustion this tape and I would like to give him a suggestion: now that the leadership of his party has changed, it may not be a bad idea to change a little to a tape.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u147	All right! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u148	They water the argument, making, above all, a reflection on the de-investment experiences of the PSD/CDS government in the country for four and a half years. It is this disinvestment that is now reflected, especially in heavy transport. When these transports do not have investments in renewal and modernisation, it is normal that this should happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u149	Are you here to talk about investment? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u150	What we think is that, in this particular case, and responding to the Socialist Party Member, the Soflusa/Transtejo Board of Directors could and should have done better, because it is possible to do better. It is possible, for example, to make an alternative transport service available to people, rather than to advise them not to appear on the docks, because this is a right which they have, have a transport title which is in force, have bought social passes and arrive and do not have transport, especially in time and time to be able to travel to Lisbon.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u151	It's like that with the strikes too!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u152	Therefore, the responsibility of the board of directors is, if any, to ship ships. This is a possibility that should have already been guarded by the board itself. The maintenance plan to which you referred, of course, was not implemented in the PSD/CDS government, but is a plan that provides for the regular renewal and repair of the various vessels in operation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u153	Sir, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u154	I shall now conclude, Mr President. The trade union itself, in a hearing with the Left Block Parliamentary Group, alerted to the situation that actually came to take place at this time, for the absence of alternative emergency means that the board and the government themselves should have provided and in good time. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u155	There are now three further requests for clarification. First of all, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Heitor Sousa, this issue is of the utmost importance, this situation is of the greatest gravity and it is to confirm and demonstrate that the CFP was and is right in the warnings it has been making over the years, in relation to what is happening in public transport and in river transport, in particular. The CFP has already presented, in the parliamentary committee, a request to call on the Assembly of the Republic the Minister of the Environment and the Board of Directors of Transtex and Soflusa, because there is an urgent discussion on the concrete measures that must be taken to respond to the unacceptable problems that people are facing in their day to day, in an increasingly serious way, as we have seen. The users present themselves at the Barreiro terminal, to embark, and are confronted with the suppression of careers, with agglomerations of more than 1000 people in situations of enormous tension and high risk and the people who are counting on transport to go to work, to go to school, to do what they have to do, are in fact faced with a situation of absolute chaos, which cannot continue to be verified. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we could not have reached this point! Public transport cannot « close for works », there had to be a contingency plan for these problems, which were predictable because they were on the same navigational certificates and maintenance plans, which had to be fulfilled and were not. They were not in the previous term, with the previous government, and were not in the current term, with the current government. We want here to remember that, two and a half years ago, we received in this House the alert of workers and their trade unions regarding the plan of alignment of the fleet of the Transtejo and the Soflusa, who were preparing to slaughter several vessels: Chiado, Algés, Alentejense, São Jorge eMartim Moniz, da Transtejo, Fantasia and Augusto Gil, da Soflusa. Some have already been mentioned, others have also been in the wave and some have been left because the PSD and the CDS were run from the previous government and could not continue to do what they did. The workers and their organizations have not been talking about this for two days and the PCP has been talking about it for years.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u157	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u158	Mrs. Members, perhaps they now understand the fights, the strikes that the workers have made to demand concrete answers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u159	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u160	Finally, Mr President, with this idea: we cannot let the memory be erased or the idea that crime compensates, but what is urgent and indispensable, above all, in this matter, is that the problems are solved, that this unsustainable situation is ended, that people have the transport to work, that they have concrete answers, that go from words to acts. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u161	Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u162	Mr President, Mr Heitor Sousa, I would also like to congratulate you on the question you have brought here, which, moreover, the Greens have already addressed in today's first political statement, because they consider that this is indeed a paradigmatic example of what cannot happen when we have an objective to continue with regard to climate change mitigation. But for this, we need collective transport — one of the key sectors is transport — which respond to the needs of the people and not to this real aberration, which is to refuse the public transport service to the people, which is the people who want to use public transport and fail to do so. That's exactly what's happening in the Soflus. In fact, it cannot be said — as Mr Bruno Dias mentioned here, and I think it is very important to highlight this issue — that this was not predictable or that it was not noticed that a certificate of navigation was expired. There are a number of situations that show very poor management and little attention to this concrete situation. Who loses? The populations. It's always the same! And the workers of the Soflus, who so often woke us up and drew attention to this matter. Now, honestly, listen to the PSD screaming in the Assembly of the Republic — to take care of themselves, always taking care of themselves, saying "we have no responsibilities", I think it is monstrous. I would like Mr Heitor Sousa, if he could, and I know that he has already done so in the previous answer, to dissociate himself a little more from this matter, because it is monstrous to say that they had no responsibilities. Who did gross cuts in investment in this company, personnel, material, repair, maintenance? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u163	Your government!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u164	'We have no responsibilities'? Oh, my God! Honestly, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u165	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u166	in this sense, Mr, we consider it essential to give an effective and immediate response to this situation and this response passes through ships sailing on the Tejo and transporting people, particularly from the Barreiro to Lisbon. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u167	For a final request for clarification, Mr Hélder Amaral of the CDS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to congratulate Mr Heitor Sousa and tell him that they deserve respect for the workers, but especially users, those who need to work every morning, travel and treat their lives and are prevented from doing by what he calls, and well, a chaos, which is an image of chaos, not only on the Soflusa or the Transtejo but also on the Metro and Caris. That is how it is in almost all public transport services and has worsened — you will not fail to agree with me — in the two years in which you support and support this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u169	Now! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u170	I am available to assume our responsibilities. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u171	Hello? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u172	But, Mr President, you have never seen images like these, of degradation, of revolt of users of public transport services.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u173	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u174	It is clear that the unions are calmer and there are fewer strikes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u175	The worst is the users!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u176	Who's been in the government for more than two years? Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u177	...but the truth is that. And let's go to the facts, even to help answer the questions that Mrs Heloísa Apollonia put. Mr President, do you not think that the fact that the Ministry of Planning and Infrastructure has a cut of EUR 459 million in captivity has anything to do with the degradation of this service? If so, how did the Left Block vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u178	Ah! He voted in favor! [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u179	Listen, Mrs. Deputy! Does he or she not think that the fact that the regulator, who could act as a supervisor and counterweight of that service, had a cut between 13 and 14 million in captivity, had anything to do with that? Mr Deputy, the IP, Infrastructures de Portugal, said by its President, had a cut of EUR 361 million. Question: Does this cut affect quality, maintenance, reprogramming and renewal? Mr Deputy, Mr Exa, called the President of the CP ( Trains of Portugal ), who was in the Commission yesterday. And what did the president of the CP say? Sir, I don't want to talk to you about captivating. I fear the worst on the West Line!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u180	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u181	I will finish, Mr. President. I'm going to remind you: from January 2016 to October 2016, the planned public investment was 12 %, but it fell 10 %. Sir, did you have anything to do with it or not? Mr President, the image of that citizen who kills his father and mother and, when he reaches the court, asks for mercy because he is an orphan. That's not good, you can't do it, sir! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u182	To reply, Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u183	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Bruno Dias, Mr Heloísa Apolónia and Mr Hélder Amaral for the questions they have asked, which give me the opportunity to add some more arguments to those that have already been used.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u184	Repeat the arguments there!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u185	I very much agree with Mr Bruno Dias' comments, particularly on the responsibility that governments have to guarantee the right to mobility of people and the existence of public transport, especially when such situations constitute emergency situations and for which contingency plans are needed. They must be prepared by companies which have a direct bearing on the mode of transport in question but must also be linked with the government. I can no longer agree with this idea by Mr Bruno Dias and the intervention we have made was precisely to draw the Government's attention that this need is urgent and cannot be ignored, and it must be dealt with as quickly as possible, because it can happen and repeat itself in another company, in the Transtejo, where there are also problems of navigation certificates for the various ships. On Mrs Heloísa Apolónia's question, it is clear that there is an attempt by the PSD and the CDS to mask and illustrate Portuguese and Portuguese regarding their responsibility for the degradation and brutal reduction in the provision of public transport services in all public transport at national level and in particular in the metropolitan area of Lisbon. This happened and when it comes to heavy public transport, as is the case with ships, trains or metropolitans, the recovery of this investment necessarily takes a long time. to the Ladies and gentlemen. Members who accuse us of having been able to deal with public investment breakdown situations in 2016, it is necessary to remember—and the honourable Members. Members know this, whether it is as good or better than I — that the times of execution and preparation of a heavy transport investment are necessarily longer than those relating to the order, for example, a bus. This means that the ability to reflect changes in terms of supply in heavy public transport necessarily takes longer than in normal situations. Therefore, Mr. Hélder Amaral, what we want is that in 2018 the Government will see the resolutions which have been adopted mostly here in the Assembly of the Republic,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u186	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u187	... with regard to public investment in transport, in particular in rail transport. We want the government to hear the claims that users and workers in the river sector are now making, with regard to the lack of means, equipment, frequencies, careers, river transport of the Tagus, and finally...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u188	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u189	... also listen to the people who line up in the stops, in the metropolitan, on trains, so that the public investment plan, with a view to developing a strategy to modernise and strengthen the supply of public transport in the metropolitan area of Lisbon, is effectively implemented from 2018 onwards. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u190	For a political statement, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, two years ago the Minister of Education told students and parents the following: « No one has to prepare for the tests of measurement. There must be no training». All right, here are the results: in the joint test of Natural and Physical Chemical Sciences of the 8th. the year, in all the areas evaluated, more than 80% of students revealed difficulties. in the Portuguese test, 67% of students had difficulties in writing and the same happened in relation to grammar for 70% of students. I mean, no one's prepared. No 5. the year of schooling, the negative performance approached or exceeded 80% in all areas of the new evidence of Mathematics and Natural Sciences. Also in the overall test of Portuguese history and geography more than 50% of students revealed difficulties in their responses. I mean, no one trained. Only students of 2. the year that made evidence of artistic and physical motor expressions achieved performances within the expected period. Curiously, the Ministry — contrary to the Minister — advanced the test scripts and even an exemplary video of the set of exercises to be carried out. That is, the only proof with good results was exactly the one for which the students prepared themselves. The Minister said on the evidence of measurement: « nobody has to worry». The Secretary of State now says about the results of the same evidence: « no one can stay calm». in this statement he said what lead is clearly this model. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The reliability of the measurement tests is questioned because it presents very different results from previous final cycle tests. That is, tests that have been conducted recently, with the same curricula, by the same schools, with the same teachers did not result in this disaster. Therefore, either the measurement model is not reliable or the same schools and the same teachers no longer know how to teach from year to year. Unbelievable and subtly, the Ministry chooses the second explanation, by presenting as a solution for this disaster a teacher training plan. A proof that we were sold as an individual follow-up to each student, which should promote the autonomy and accountability of schools by recovery plans, ultimately generated, and so quickly, a centralist response from the government. If this is the solution that gives us, then definitely the problem is not in teachers or students.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u192	Yeah, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Unfortunately, this is neither the only problem nor the only disaster. The school year began with schools threatening to close because of the lack of employees. The CDS has been alerting to this problem for more than a year and we even agree with Mr Minister when he says that "more operational assistants are absolutely essential". We therefore tabled a draft resolution on this subject which was adopted by Parliament but ignored by the Government. It is that the policy of the Minister of Education is as inconsequential as his many statements: in October 2016 he guaranteed to be working in a new gate of relations; in December he said that we had never had so many employees in schools; in February 2017 he said that it was necessary to strengthen non-teachers; in March he promised that until the beginning of the school year, the gate of ratios would be changed and in May and July he insisted that the government was working on strengthening employees. But only after the classes have started was published the so-called gate and now there is still a need to launch the contests, so the school year begins, and for many months it will continue, just like the previous one, i.e., in rupture. Even the placement of teachers, the « crown jewel » in 2016, did not go well this year. Many teachers were surprised by an unexpected change of rules that led to hundreds of kilometres of their area of residence, with very high professional and family costs. Until October 5, World Teacher's Day, the government had the undoubted to apologize, saying that all the teachers were in preference for you indicated. He omitted two things: that the rules applied were not known by the teachers and that, to be placed, each teacher had to manifest, on a computer platform, more than 100 preferences. omiting made it appear that the Ministry's error was ultimately the bad faith of the teachers. the error added the insult. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, while the government announces tranquility in schools and its partners choose silence, unions threaten the strike. And also parents have reason to be concerned: in preschool education the 2016 scenario has been repeated and universalization at 3 years, so often announced, is far from being realized and even at 4 years is not completed. Even the announcement of the opening of 70 new rooms left out more than 1500 children. If the CDS proposal to contract vacancies with the social and private system had been approved, these 1500 children would be in schools today. in the CDS we have presented and will continue to present constructive proposals to solve many of the problems identified by all and not the radical opposition of some, here in Parliament, nor the institutional disregard of the government in matters approved in this House will change this attitude because, as this school year has shown, neither the problems are solved nor are solved with repeated and inconsequential announcements. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u194	Madam Member, you have signed up to request clarifications from four Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Since he intends to answer two to two, Mr Porfirio Silva has already spoken.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u195	Mr President, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, I begin by congratulating her on bringing education issues to this debate, which is always relevant, and I would also like to welcome her on the following: in terms of evaluation, the CDS now recognizes, although fear, which has been deceived and which has led when, two years ago, it did the criticisms made to the new evaluation model. On the evaluation model composed not only by exams but also by measurement tests, the CDS said that it was facilitation, the CDS said it was to abandon rigor; now it says exactly the opposite, it says that the measurement tests demonstrate the difficulties that students have in each area and, in addition to demonstrating the difficulties in each area, it also shows what type is, the category of difficulties they need to be corrected. So welcome! The CDS finally acknowledged that in terms of evaluation it was wrong and its criticism had nothing to do with what it says today. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Of course, the tests of measurement serve to determine the difficulties, so that they can be attacked, so that they can be corrected. That's what they do. The honourable Member has taken two years to realize this, but, I repeat, be welcome, because she has finally understood and now we have another basis for discussion. Mrs Deputy, the training of teachers has not been decided now to solve the problems of measuring tests. What this government had already done was to unlock the training of teachers you had sent to « anyone who wants to train you to pay for it ». But at the moment, contrary to that, all programmes of the grouping training centres are working — and they are not working only after the results of the measurement tests are known — are working and are progressing because the government recognizes the importance of teachers and knows that teachers have to be well treated in order to do their work as they want, that is to do it well. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, regarding the chaos at the opening of the school year she spoke about, I think that Mrs Ana Rita Bessa should not have gone to school this year. He spoke about the lack of operational assistants but, Mrs. Deputy, two years ago, in addition to regularizing the situation...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u196	Mr President, you have already exceeded your time, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u197	I'm done now, Mr. President. Madam Member, as I said two years ago, in addition to regularizing the situation of those whom you had left in precarious situations in schools, we have more than 300 operations; this year, before beginning the school year,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u198	Thank you very much, Mr President, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u199	...we had another 250 and during this school year there will be more 1500, through the contests that are going on, it is true, but all this is more than what you have left. So it was worth looking back so they wouldn't make the same mistake. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u200	Also to ask for clarification, Mrs Nilza de Sena, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u201	Mr President, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, I welcome her on the subject that she brought here and that the PSD generally accompanies the criticisms she has raised. The results of the measurement tests were effectively disastrous. Nothing that wasn't predictable. The PSD often said here that facilitation, lack of requirement, leaks in relation to exams — three months later nothing is known, did not nullify any proof! — which also represents an object to what is transparency in education, are factors that, in fact, weaken the system, demean the results of our students, as seen by these tests. Mr Porfirio Silva, I have listened very carefully to you and I would like to say the following: I do not know whether you are very comfortable with the fact that paragraph 8. 70 % of the students have not been able to answer questions of grammar, they have not been able to write, from natural sciences 95 % have not been able to answer questions about the Earth or paragraph 5. the year Mathematics, Science, Geography and History have a negative average of 80 %. Mr President, we can say every day that the road is right but if you are to see these results they will make the stone of the shoe red! Mr President, I am very perplexed because, for those who have devalued the bad results of the evidence, as you did just a few minutes ago, I do not understand how you can at the same time accuse the teachers, because that is also what the government has done, that is, pointed at the finger insinuating that the bad performance of the students is due to the teachers. [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u202	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u203	I'm done now, Mr. President. Mr. Porfirio Silva, passing minority certificates to teachers is wrong because they were the same teachers who ensured good results to the same students, according to the TIMSS reports ( Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study ) and PISA ( Programme for International Student Assessment ), in 2015. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u204	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u205	I shall conclude by saying the following: these proofs of measurement may in fact not be of much use, if they may not be of any use,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u206	Thank you, Mrs. Member, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u207	...but if they make the bells sound very loud on the Av. On 5 October, Mr Deputy, something has already been worth. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u208	In reply, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u209	Mr President, Mr Porfirio Silva, I was listening to you and I was thinking that this might seem a little bit like the exercise of the evidence of measurement, that is, as you did not prepare for this debate, you came here with completely irrelevant information.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u210	Answer instead of being insulting!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u211	Mr, I am not being insulting, Mr. Insulting was Mr. Prime Minister in relation to the teachers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u212	Answer the question!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u213	The point is this: in order not to tell me that it took me two years to figure out a few things, I will explain slowly to you that you do not have to take four years to understand other things.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u214	Now slowly to see if you can hear!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u215	If the evidence is not taken seriously, as has been the case this year, students have been encouraged in this regard by the Minister of Education himself, who said « do not prepare », « do not train », « do not have to study », « do not study for the global tests that have matter of the whole year », « it is not necessary », « it will run very well»,, and if the evidence is bad, generate information that is not useful. A whole source of information, this information generated by the measurement evidence, is unreliable and, as it is not reliable, is a bad input for the definition of public policies. That is the problem we now have on the table, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u216	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u217	You can choose to look at this and analyze it this way or you can live in another world, otherwise, but this is the problem we have on the table.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u218	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u219	What's going on? in the case of this Ministry, it seems that the measurement tests do not actually serve to assess the students' knowledge or, if you want, to measure the students' knowledge, serve to evaluate the teachers' performance. If this were not the case, they would not have presented a centralist teacher training plan as a first step. After all, it turns out that what matters is whether or not students know whether or not they are teaching them, and that is why I have many doubts about the effectiveness of this type of public policy. I am telling you something else, Mr Porfirio Silva: I think the Ministry has been strangely quick to bring these results out. It would have been better for a Ministry which has so much promoted the autonomy of schools to return these results to them and expect them to define which are the appropriate recovery plans, rather than in a centralist policy so contrary to the speeches that we have heard before, to make a decision for all schools only once. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u220	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Mesquita.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u221	Mr President, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, I would like to congratulate her on the subject which brought the debate. In fact, those who listen to the CDS feel that he is now the true champion of defense of public school, but the truth is that the CDS has integrated and was an active part of a government that launched one of the most brutal and fierce attacks on public school. [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u222	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u223	The CDS believes that all schools have exactly all the conditions and that everyone should be evaluated exactly by the same dick. Well, that's fake. in fact, the CDS has been defending that it must be the rankings to prevail over the integrated evaluations of schools and the educational system, launching the stigma of failure or illusion of success over schools, and has also been defending, in particular with regard to exams, the emphasis of elitism of education, in a context where it is those who have money to pay those who train them for the exams, as it has been said, that will clearly have the good results. Whoever doesn't have the money to train, then he'll be on his way. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, the CFP believes that it is necessary to take a course in the appreciation of the free and quality public school. To this end, the PCP presented 10 proposals to implement and develop in this academic year. We would like to know whether the CDS-PP comes to play a role in strengthening the financing of education, reducing the number of students per class, recruiting the missing operational assistants, recruiting the specialists in need, opening a new process of extraordinary linkage of teachers, combating all forms of teacher and non-teacher precariousness, opening a broad and participatory process with a view to building a true curriculum reform, implementing a truly democratic model in school management, which is so lacking, in developing measures to ensure the effective inclusion of children and young people with special educational needs in public school and in recovering the degraded school park. Madam Member, we would like to know if the CDS comes to play on all this that the PCP proposes or will continue to prefer to bet on exams as a tool for elitisting and excluding teaching. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u224	To request clarification, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u225	Mr President, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, I would like to thank you for the subject which today brought the debate. It's known, it's public, that the CDS never liked the measurement. The CDS likes more exams, rankings, serial schools, to say which are the best schools in the country where students from the best families can go to study, and are invariably private schools. The CDS never liked the measurement and, therefore, looking at the results of these measurement tests, choose not to see what is most important and simply throw itself into the measurement model. This is the first mistake that is made in this case. The measurement does not serve to assess or classify students, the measurement serves—and this is written in the document itself on the measurement tests—to monitor the development of the curriculum. That's what the measurement is for. What this tells us is that the explanation that the honourable Member has for the results of the assessment tests is very short. The explanation he gave us telling us that students did not prepare, did not train, did not mechanize the reproduction of knowledge, as CDS likes education, is very short. This is not what should happen in the measurement, because the measurement is not an exam, it is a photograph of the system. when taking the picture to this system, we have to realize something about the result of these tests of measurement: if we are photographing in the right way and in the right angle, that is, what these tests of measurement are evaluating, because they do not beat right with what has come to be public, which is the improvement of the results of students and the quality of education in public school. I repeat: the results of these tests do not strike the right way with the improvement of the quality of the public school in Portugal and it is necessary to understand why and whether we are evaluating the system the way we should or are simply looking at the programs in a blind manner and, if so, there is a problem of curriculum development and there is a problem of programs.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u226	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u227	Finally, Mr President, by asking Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, since we both agree on the fact that it is not the teachers' fault, as unfortunately was suggested by the presentation of these results on 4 October, whether she agrees with the creation of curriculum monitoring teams to see whether the problem might be in the programmes. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u228	In reply, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u229	Mr President, Mrs Ana Mesquita, I am repeatedly accused of not liking public school and at the same time of arming myself as a large public school defender. In fact, sometimes I wonder whether the CFP will own the public school and whether that is why I cannot talk about it. I thought we were all here—see my ingenuity there, Your Honor! — to discuss the good service of education, be practiced by whoever it is, but apparently that is not what we are discussing, and I am left with a part of the speech. Unfortunately, I'm not playing that game. [[CDS-PP applause.]] We are all here, Mrs. Member, for that purpose. So I will return the question to you: is the Member coming to play when the CDS presents proposals? It's the same thing. Often, the game doesn't come. For example, last year, we presented the proposal for the basic law of the education system...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u230	Proposal for a re-presentation!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u231	...and the PCP didn't want to discuss it. Why? Because there you don't want to move. Go know why! Even the PS are afraid of this matter. The honourable Member says that she has proposals to present — 10 as I understand — one on the linkage of teachers. This proposal is only late. The honourable Member has even submitted a parliamentary opinion on the previous invitation to tender but has then forgotten to schedule her discussion. Apparently, he liked the previous contest.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u232	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u233	What's the matter now, Mrs. Member? Anything very strange here happened that I really can't explain, but I leave all the explanations to you. As for Mrs Joana Mortágua, you are absolutely right. The measurement, but also the exams, are an observation over time, are an observation point or, using your image, are a photograph. But when we look at the picture and we don't like what's there, it's good to see if the problem is the machine or the people who are in the photograph. Honestly, I don't think the problem is the people who are in the picture. That's what we've always criticized. The problem is the instrument, the problem is the measurement. Ladies and gentlemen, it's time we all got to reality. Just talk to the 2nd graders. o, of the 5. o or 8. the years, to whom it was said that it is not worth it, that these evidences do not count for anything and that they go there in the last week of classes to make a crusades, before starting their holidays, and ask them if they have engaged and taken this seriously, at the moment we all pretend that this serves to take public policy measures that affect the lives of families and teachers. I wish the Ministry had not been so quick to go over this point and to define a policy date that suits you and instead look at your problem. Maybe it was not a bad time to reverse this decision. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u234	Mr Jorge Machado has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u235	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After a particularly hard summer, with a loss of human lives and thousands of hectares of burning forest, which has entailed huge economic and social damage, the country is now, in the middle of October, faced with a new wave of large fires. Again, the goods and lives of the affected people and the forest are at stake, a means of subsistence for thousands of people. The seriousness of the fires in Portugal can only cause concern on the part of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Portugal, but we cannot be left with regrets and concerns. The size of the problem requires proposals and measures that at least mitigate this scourge. As we said during the tragedy of Pedrogão Grande, the fight against fires is not only done by law but also by concrete measures. For the PCP, there are two fundamental plans of intervention in combating the scourge of fires: the fight itself, at firefighter level and civil protection level, and prevention, which necessarily involves talking about forest management. It should be noted that, with regard to forest fires, it is essential to focus on what is essential, what political agents and the media area have had difficulty in doing. The legislative process with regard to which the Government and some stubbornly call for forest reform, which, in fact, does not go beyond legislative amendments and, in some cases, it makes the essential point to a second plan, which would have been the approval of a law on immediate support for victims, compensation for damage and the replacement of productive potential. In the face of one of the greatest national catastrophes in recent history — the largest record of forest fires — how can it be understood that the Assembly of the Republic, the representative body of the Portuguese, has not produced legislation in consonance? The early CFP alerted to this need and, from the outset, it presented its proposals, but the will of some political parties to complete legislative amendments which may take years to produce effects has brought to the background what was urgent. If today the vote will be taken, in the specialty, of a victim support law, it is important to remember that it was the CFP that took the first step with the presentation of a bill and that, at the beginning of this legislative session, it will propose a timetable for its discussion. Political action is also the anticipation of the problem and the intervention in consonance and therefore renders poor service to the populations when it is oriented to ride media waves. It will be consensual that a real fight against the drama of forest fires takes place with a correct prevention policy and with more financial and human resources attached to forest policy, but the state to which the Portuguese forest has arrived also requires a strong wager in the fight against fires. We hope that sooner or later the country will be able to divert means of combating prevention, but the current situation requires more means in both prevention and combat. To attack the problem of forests is, from the outset, to ensure compliance with forest legislation, which has existed for a long time, both in the implementation of the forest and in its management; to ensure that the monopolistic intervention of processing and intermediate sectors does not suffocate the profitability of forest activity; to implement integrated development and territorial cohesion policies that guarantee an occupied territory with conditions for the establishment of people; to diversify the productive activity; to move, above all, through the allocation of resources, and not only financial, to ensure, for example, the execution of fuel management bands and the creation and equipment of forest slag teams; and to pass through human resources and resources, in which forest services and the Ministry of Agriculture are so lacking. It will be incomprehensible for the PCP Parliamentary Group and for all, after the greatest disaster ever experienced, after these forest fires, after so many positions, after so many measures announced, after so many visits to the ground, that the Government does not give a sign that it effectively wants to do different than has been done here. On the other hand, it makes no sense to the Government's decision to reduce the Special Device of Combating Forest Fires, the DECIF, when objectively there were no conditions necessary for the reduction of that device. Conditioning this Special Arrangement for Combating Forest Fires to a schedule previously set does not make any sense, so we reiterate the proposal already submitted on 7 July of this year of strengthening the DECIF, extending its period of operation throughout the year and the duplication of human resources affected by this device. Again, I recall: if the proposal of the CFP, submitted on 7 July, had been considered by the Government, today we would not be discussing the means available to combat this new wave of fires.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u236	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u237	The CFP reiterates that it is important to adopt measures to support and strengthen humanitarian firefighters' associations and to provide the Air Force with the necessary means and knowledge to contribute to the fight against fires without dependence on private airlines. We do not have the illusion that we can end the scourge of fires in its entirety, but we are sure that the country is not doomed to watch this scourge year after year. With concrete measures in forest management, with the enhancement of the territories and the fight against depopulation, with measures to combat forest monopolies, with measures to improve the fight against fires, for example in the resources allocated, it is possible to mitigate this scourge and its consequences. There is no smallpox, no miraculous solutions, but there are concrete policy options and measures, some already existing in the legislation already proposed by the CFP, which can be implemented to combat this scourge of forest fires. What has been lacking, and much, is the political will to achieve it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u238	Mr President, four of us have signed up. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you intend to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u239	Mr. President, I answer two to two.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u240	Of course, Mr. Deputies. To request clarification, Mr. Carlos Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u241	Mr President, first of all, I welcome the CFP for bringing the issue of fires, given the seriousness and size of the problem. The roots are several and it will certainly not be by chance that this year, according to 8. the provisional report on forest fires covering the period until 30 September, there are already about 216 000 ha of burning area, i.e. more than 174 % on the annual average for the same period last year. Significantly, as usual, 1% of the fires consumed about 90 % of the burning area. The reasons are many: from the outset, climate change, today brought the debate by the Greens Ecological Party — indeed, with a sense of opportunity — but also the depopulation of the interior, the forest disorder and the lack of management of forest areas. Well, this is where I want to get here. The question that I raise is the following: from the point of view of the Left Block, more than ever it becomes evident that it is necessary to reorganize the forest and promote the most fire-resistant indigenous species; more than ever it becomes clear that it is necessary to remunerate the services provided to the environment by the forest producers, making the forest a lucrative activity to counter the deforestation of the interior; and, more than ever, it is necessary to promote and encourage the well-organized management of forest farms. All of this certainly involves the need for strong funding. at this time, we are at the stage when we are beginning to discuss the new common agricultural policy. The question I want to leave is the following: to what extent should it be — and from the point of view of the Left Bloc — should the new common agricultural policy include enhanced support for improving forest management and the reorganisation of forests? This is because, without the encouragement of the common agricultural policy, without strong public funding and without the support of the State, it will be very difficult to do what needs to be done in the forest so that this scourge of fires, once and for all, will be contained. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u242	Mr Nuno Serra has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u243	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Unfortunately, on 30 September Portugal had in its territory the largest burning area of the last 10 years. The IPMA ( Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere ) reported that September was the hottest month of the last 87 years. This same Institute warned, and alerted today on its website, that until October 15 we are in critical period of fire risk—in fact, the IPMA released several warnings at the beginning of October stating that this month we would have very high temperatures, dry time and serious fire risk. Despite all these weather warnings, despite what happened in the country in June, July and August, the Government, through the Ministry of Internal Administration, decided unilaterally against everything and against what was said to it, which had come to an end at the time of fire in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u244	That's not true! That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u245	For this government, in October there should be no more fires. And thus, he decided not to extend the Charlie phase, move to Delta phase, close the watch stations, finish the civil vigilantes' work contracts...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u246	It's a scandal!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u247	...and do not extend the leases of air assets, which ended on 5 October, leaving the planes stopped at Viseu, for example. For the unhappiness of many Portuguese, October continues to be a month when there have been several fires and many regions have again been devastated by this scourge. This was the result of the resignation of this government to maintain a maximum fire protection force in Portugal! Mr. Member of the Portuguese Communist Party, considers whether or not the Government, this government, has done everything in its power...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u248	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u249	...to protect the populations and forests of these fires?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u250	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u251	Do you consider that there has been discoordination in the media and also in the ministries? Consider it or not...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u252	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u253	Mr. President, I'll be done. Do you consider or not that there was a slight disregard of the IPMA alerts? Even to finish...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u254	You really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u255	Are you or are you not comfortable in supporting a government that treats people and their territory? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u256	To respond to this first block of two requests for clarification, Mr. Jorge Machado has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u257	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Carlos Matias and Mr. Nuno Serra, I wanted to thank you for the questions you asked me. Mr Matias would like to say that the causes and diagnoses of our forest have been made for a long time, I would say. what the country lacks and the forest urgently needs is concrete measures to solve the problems, and it is obvious that one of the measures we have come forward and to propose that it be treated by the government goes through the exploitation of wood and what is paid to the producers. Only by breaking the monopolie of the cells and of the large economic groups that control the price of wood in Portugal can it be possible to value the small wood producers, because they then make the management of the forest and the prevention in the fight against fires. There is no doubt about this, and we agree that it is necessary for the government to also intervene in public support, whether through Community funds or through the State budget. Mr. PSD only referred to firefighting. He referred to the problem of DECIF, i.e. the reduction of the Device. On this matter, we are entirely at ease. We are so pleased that, since 7 July, we have been proposing the extension of the DECIF period of operation and the duplication of human resources in this area. But we must also be serious, Mr President: there is no fight against the resulting fires, nor does Portugal have sufficient human and financial resources and resources if we do not talk about forest management. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u258	It is on this matter that the PSD flees, flees, because he does not want to assume his responsibilities,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u259	The question was not that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u260	... because the PSD and the CDS-PP, with the political options they have taken in relation to the forest, of species liberalization to benefit the monopolies of the celluloses, have contributed, and much, to create a time bomb in our country. [[Protests by PSD MP Nuno Serra.]] This time bomb has to be dismantled and, just talking about forest management, it is possible to dismantle it. The PSD does not want to talk about this because it has responsibilities, but we do. We are talking not only about forest management policy but also about the Device. As I said recently in the intervention, we are not in a position to bet on prevention to abdicate in combat. at this time, the state to which the Portuguese forest has arrived obliges us to wager financially in both fields. The PSD only looks at one side of the problem. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u261	Mr. Deputies, as you know, two more are registered. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. Mrs. Patrícia Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u262	Mr President, I would like to greet the CFP, in Mr. Jorge Machado's person, for bringing the issue of fires to this plenary. It is a very expensive issue for the CDS and on which it has expressed concern and put forward several proposals not only when it was government but also in this legislature. In fact, with regard to forest management, we have put forward a number of proposals, one of which — from the forest management account — the CFP has consistently voted against. I now leave the challenge to know how the CFP will vote on this proposal in this State budget. But, Mr President, we have subscribed to the project presented by the CFP, in support of the victims — indeed, we have put forward a proposal itself which gave rise to a joint project, which is the one that is going to be voted on today in the specialty. That is why, Mr President, I confess that I do not understand when it says that it was by the will of some political parties that this project was not advanced. It is because it was the Socialist Party — the party that you support, the party that supports the government — that made the project not complete in the past legislative session and is not already in force in the field to support the people. In principle, tomorrow the report will be delivered in this Parliament, and both we and you will certainly look at it and then we will draw our conclusions. Also this week, next Friday, will be discussed and voted on a draft resolution from the CDS, which — and returning to forest prevention — calls on the Government to strengthen forest fire-fighting investment. I challenge you to vote in favour of our project, because it will certainly value and benefit everything about forest management and contribute to the reduction of fires. Finally, Mr President, I also ask the CFP to know how it will vote not only on Friday but also on the next State budget — I am curious to see — in particular with regard to the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture and the funds that will be included there for fire prevention and the budget of the Ministry of Internal Administration and the funds that will be included there for the fight against fires.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u263	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u264	We'll be here to see, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u265	To request clarification, Mr José Miguel Medeiros has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u266	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. Jorge Machado, I wanted to start by saying that perhaps we should make a small distinction between critical period and phases of the Device. This is because the critical period is intended for a set of precautionary measures that tend to avoid risk behaviors that increase the possibility of fires of non-natural origin, which is therefore a different thing from the Device and all the means allocated to it. It was good to reflect that the Device is thought of in January and is being evaluated throughout the year. And, this year, no one of good faith can say that the month of September was equal to the months of June, July or August, because atmospheric statistics show that this was not the case. In fact, temperatures have dropped quite a bit, humidity, not being what we would have liked it to have been, has risen a lot and therefore what happened was a normal transition between phases of the Device. What happened in Pampilhosa da Serra was already on October 6, it was not on October 1st; however, it is good to know that on that same day, the Government still admitted that it was necessary to keep more 50 teams above the Device, that is, it was soon guarded a set of reinforcement groups. In addition, although I sometimes wonder when I see certain firefighters and even politicians forget about it, there are about 35,000 volunteer firefighters in Portugal. So, they're not gonna work just because they're not on the device and they don't get money? I don't believe that! I think it's a little regrettable that it's put on the table and it's about the Device and the effort of firefighters and associations themselves, who don't need to be on the Device to be mobilized. So from this point of view, I think we have to be careful. however, essentially, the Socialist Party agrees with Mr. Jorge Machado, in particular with regard to structural and forestry reform issues - we have voted together on a number of these issues. We therefore agree that more needs to be done and we are even looking forward to seeing the report which will be delivered tomorrow, because it will certainly give us more guidance so that we can take even better action in the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u267	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u268	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr. Jorge Machado, the question he left you, and connecting a little with the structural issue...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u269	Mr. José Miguel Medeiros, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u270	I will now finish, Mr President. I just want to have the same time as the other gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u271	Mr President, time management has been the same.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u272	Mr. Jorge Machado, since he raised the issue of the depopulation of the interior, asked him if he did not think that decentralisation, which is often not linked to these issues, is also not at the heart of this problem. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u273	To reply, Mr. Jorge Machado has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u274	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by thanking the questions asked by the Member of the CDS Patrícia Fonseca and the Member of the PS José Miguel Medeiros. Mrs Patrícia Fonseca I will say that we agree with the need, which is imperative, to allocate more financial and human resources to address the problem of forest management and also to tackle the problem of forest fires. We will therefore be very comfortable in voting on all the measures, come from wherever they come, which are in the right direction of solving the problems of the country. We do not fail to note in plenary the inconsistencies of some parties, particularly the CDS-PP, which had particular responsibility for the previous government. [[Well, well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u275	It should be borne in mind that the honourable Member, who is here demanding a greater allocation of resources for the fight against fires, who were his Government and his party responsible for the withdrawal of more than EUR 100 million from forest support under the PRODER ( Rural Development Programme ). It was also you, your Government and your Minister who tried to pass a law that allowed the liberalisation of eucalyptus plantation, which transformed our country into a time bomb that I mentioned, from the point of view of forest management.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u276	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u277	Therefore, these responsibilities must be imputed because they are paid, and are paid over time. This problem is not solved overnight. The CDS, in the government, jumped a bottle where he did all this for, now that he's in the opposition, a bottle demanding everything else. I want to tell you, Mrs. Member, that the country will pay for many and many years the disaster of the eucalyptus liberalization policy adopted by the CDS. Mr José Miguel Medeiros, the circumstances are not normal. in our view, the circumstances would require a reflection on the amendment of the DECIF, which was identified. More: we believe that the period of operation of the DECIF should be extended throughout the year by strengthening the means. It is not the same thing depending on voluntary firearm corporations on or off the device, it is completely different the response, response capacity and support given to humanitarian associations. You know that as well as I do. Therefore, we consider it unwise for the Government to reduce the device when the conditions necessary for this purpose have not yet been guaranteed. The honourable Member asks us a question about the decentralization of powers in relation to forest management. Mr President, we sincerely believe that what is needed is to regionalize the country, there is no decentralisation that passes without regionalisation. We admit that there may be administrative decentralization, but this has to be done in a framework where regions have a capacity for intervention with human resources and financial resources to do so. To take responsibility for the management of the forest to the local authorities, who do not have the necessary conditions to do so, is, in our view, an irresponsibility that will not solve any problem, will, yes, protect the problem that has existed throughout the history of our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u278	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the first item on the agenda, we move on to the second item, with the joint assessment of petition No 172 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — They request an amendment to Decree-Law No 10 / 2015 of 16 January ( Access and exercise regime for various trade, services and restoration activities and establish the respective counter-ordering regime) in order to allow for the entry of animals into commercial establishments ( André Silva et al.) and generally of lein. 172 / XIII projects ( 1 ). ( a ) — Possibility of permit of animals in commercial establishments ( amends Decree-Law No 10 / 2015 of 16 January) ( PAN ), 622 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Authorizes the creation of areas of permit to animals in commercial establishments ( second amendment of Decree-Law No 10 / 2015 of 16 January 2015 ) ( BE) and 623 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — It enables animals to stay in commercial establishments under specific conditions by amending Decree-Law No 10 / 2015 of 16 January ( The Greens ). I report that there was a 1 minute transfer from the PS to the NAP. To present the draft law of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u279	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The current law does not allow for the entry of pets into closed spaces that perform the restoration activity. Pets are becoming more and more part of the lives of Portuguese and family members, and they are common to accompany them at various times each day. And if in countries such as Italy, France, Switzerland or Germany it is common to find animals in cafes and restaurants, accompanying their leaders, in our country there is an interference of the State, which imposes on the owners of the establishments who can or cannot enter them. It is time for us to put an end to this imposition, so we propose that animals should be allowed to stay in establishments where owners decide to allow them to enter animals. Safeguarded by the ban on animal access to areas of food handling and packaging, it is basically intended to allow the market to operate freely and the owners to have the freedom that they today do not have to be able to decide who enters or who does not enter their commercial establishments. We all hope that, at the stage of the speciality, we will be able to resolve some details, in particular with regard to whether or not we are required to lay down statistics or how to manage and control animals, for example by means of truce. [[Meanwhile, Vice-President José Manuel Pureza was re-chaired.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u280	To present the bill of the Left Block, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u281	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by saying a special greeting to the 5569 petitioners who have subscribed to this petition. Under Law No 8 / 2017, the animals received legal status. It has therefore been recognised its sensitivity and the right to be protected. The Left Block has hit a lot and has always been in the front line to guarantee this legislation and, as an inclusive and environmentalist party, we have animal welfare as one of our concerns. in this line and as a basic principle, we also defend the idea that animals have the right to urban space. We have defended three points in this direction: one, a fair city is also a city that treats its animals well; two, the urban space with quality is not an aseptic and artificial space; three, living with other animals improves our ways of life and a good relationship between these actors must also be one of the objectives of the spaces we live and frequent. Despite these principles, we recognize that there is still a difficult relationship between animals, their detainees and other human persons. There are often phobias and other reactions to animals and their companions that hinder the most fluid interaction among these various beings that inhabit common spaces. Nor do humans often feel threatened by the presence of pets, even when they do not — and it is most often — aggressive attitudes. For these questions, Portuguese legislation specifies rules for this convivio to be facilitated: it is mandatory to use — by all dogs and cats circulating on the public road or place — of collar or chest; moreover, they must be accompanied by their holders and with functional açai; in any public place, animals must use truce. Therefore, we believe that a set of measures are being safeguarded which allow for opening the option to trade areas of the decision on the existence of an area of permit to stay with pets. in this amendment of Decree-Law No 10/2015, it must, however, safeguard the correct information to all stakeholders, so the disticulum of permission must be mandatory, as well as the guarantee that they do not access the service areas where the food is made and handled. Thus, food hygiene and the right to information of those who attend the spaces are protected, which may choose to access the place in question or not. It should be clarified that the existence of these spaces is also optional for each commercial establishment. We are therefore aware that this petition has raised a number of questions in the public opinion on animal rights, but above all on the duties of its owners and on the socialization between human and non-human animals. We want to answer these questions and make this relationship more balanced, as we can already see in other countries of the European Union where the rights and duties of animal owners are regulated and publicized, as well as this proposed amendment. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u282	To present the Green Bill, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u283	Mr President: I would like to say, firstly, that the Greens welcome the subscribers of petition No 172 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) which gives rise to this discussion in plenary. The Greens understood to associate Bill No. 623 / XIII ( 3. ( a ), which meets what the petitioners ask the Assembly of the Republic and thereby enables animals to stay in commercial establishments under specific conditions. The truth is that, today, the access of pet animals to establishments, including restoration, is expressly prohibited by Decree-Law No 10/2015 and, therefore, it is very common to see people accompanied by their pet animals in the plains of pastries, cafes, etc. but not in a closed space, which the law expressly prohibits. The question is whether or not you can take advantage of the experience, which other countries already have, to allow the access of these pet animals to closed spaces. The Greens believe that it is time to allow the animals to stay in these closed spaces. However, there are issues that we need to take into account and which, in the field of expertise, I think we should discuss. Pets are not just dogs and sometimes there are projects that seem to talk about pets basically about dogs. And that's not the case. We must bear in mind that the definition of pet is made in the law in a very clear way and refers to any animal held or intended to be arrested by human beings, especially in their home, for their entertainment and company. On the other hand, the Greens have done a work of exploitation with restoration establishments and, without, of course, having done a statistic — but we have done this field work, so let us say, with some establishments — we have found that some owners would like to open up their closed space to pets, others or so. This led the Greens to take as a solution to stay at the owner's discretion to accept, or not, the presence of pets in their establishment. To this end, I would inform the consumer by means of a distinguishment, which would have at the door of the establishment so as to be able to give authorisation. But there are certain conditions that the Greens believe must be guaranteed. For example, the owner must also be able to choose whether to allow the presence of pets in all spaces intended for customers or only in a reserved area. You must be at the owner's discretion in our perspective. On the other hand, the Greens believe that it must be expressed in the law that animals cannot move freely in establishments, being totally prevented from staying at the places where food for sale is exposed.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u284	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u285	I will finish, Mr. President. We have also put in our project that animals should remain in establishments securely conditioned and, on the other hand, that can be refused access or stay in establishments to animals that, in particular, by behaviour or size, disturb the normal functioning of these establishments. It is a matter which is already laid down in the law for people and must therefore also be put, as a rule, for animals. We have much to discuss in the specialty and the Greens are proud to be able to make this contribution.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u286	Mr Joel Sá, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u287	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we are discussing the possibility of allowing animals in commercial establishments, for which a petition and three draft laws are under discussion. First of all, I would like to congratulate the more than 5,500 subscribers for the act of citizenship and for the subject that causes this discussion in plenary. Of course, the PSD is sensitive to this issue, as it has already demonstrated in the past, particularly with concrete initiatives, presented in the previous legislation, in defense of animals, and we therefore follow this discussion. We naturally see this claim of our society, as is already the case in other European countries. of the three bills under discussion, in our view, that of The Greens seems to be the most sensible. We are available to deepen the matter, provided that, within committee, some issues which we believe are very important can be properly dealt with and cautioned. It should be noted that the current law of 2015, of the previous government, PSD / CDS, already allows for the entry of pets and also access to pets in public grounds and locations. On the proposals in question, we believe that the following aspects must be safeguarded: it must always be up to the owners of commercial establishments to decide on their total or partial authorisation, i.e. to create specific areas for this purpose and duly signalled with the placement of a distigo. We have as an example, with due relief, the case of tobacco, since cafes allow or not, on their initiative, smokers or non-smokers, creating their own spaces. We understand that this case is very similar. More: the issues of hygiene and safety, which we do not see here, and animal health control must be safeguarded; it must also be safeguarded that animals do not have access to food handling and packaging areas; access to shopping centres and large areas must be defined, as well as sizes, among many others; aspects such as the size and behaviour of animals must be safeguarded so as not to cause disturbance to the other customers in space. It is also necessary to define which pets are authorised, if all or only the most common, such as dogs and cats; it should be worth careful consideration of the owners' liability for their animals; the counter-ordinations for their infringements should be duly planned. We understand that, before a final decision, the most diverse entities involved in this matter must be heard; all amendments must obey clear rules in order to preserve the comfort, well-being and safety of all. As mentioned at the outset, we are available to discuss the matter in depth, provided that all the issues mentioned above are dealt with properly. Otherwise, we will not follow these initiatives. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u288	I now give the floor to Mr Nuno Magalhães for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u289	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the more than 5500 petitioners who have submitted this petition, which, moreover, motivated the subsequent presentation of all the projects under consideration. Since the beginning, the CDS has a position of principle in favour of ideas that are underlying any of these three bills, which meet the petition itself. This position of principle is not only because of one aspect that has been focused here — the whole debate has been very focused on the issue of animal rights, which are not minor rights, but also because of another argument which I believe in the previous interventions has been forgotten and must, moreover, also be protected and, I would say, valued, because it has constitutional consecration. I am referring to freedom of establishment, freedom of private initiative, freedom of choice for entrepreneurs, who can and should, I say, choose what they want from their business, in particular the target they want to achieve when they open their business. These are values that the CDS values and which also matter here, because they seem to make us think that these projects can be discussed. As for the projects themselves, repeating and stressing that they have a kind idea behind us, we believe that they need greater depth in the field of expertise, particularly with regard to the issues that have already been raised by the previous honourable Member and that perhaps it is worth considering. In any event, we have already said that the Greens Ecological Party project seems quite complete to us, it seems to us to be a good basis for work, even in exceptional cases, as Mrs Heloísa Apolónia said, and as is the case with people, access to certain types of animals can be denied. It seems necessary to us that this disticulum is visible and known, and it seems to us that it is also necessary to reflect on whether, in the broad concept of pet animals that exists, this opening can be extensible to all or only partial. In summarizing and concluding, Mr President, the CDS will enable these diplomas and will be available to discuss and make a law that certainly guarantees the rights of animals, which are respectable, but also the freedom of private initiative and the right of establishment by those who invest in these businesses. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u290	Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u291	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the petitioners of petition No 172 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), in order to permit the entry of animals into commercial establishments. The concerns and concerns of the CFP regarding issues relating to animal welfare are well known, as well as the commitment it has manifested in defending, protecting and respecting animals. We recognize that the animals, which live in the company, keep with their owners, with their owners, a close relationship of proximity, often sharing, especially in urban areas, the same space, establishing a healthy coexistence between humans and animals, benefiting each other from this enriching and fruitful relationship. With this petition, three bills are under consideration that have as authors the PAN, the Ecological Party « The Greens » and the Left Block. It seems to us that a solution is given to the possibility of animals entering commercial establishments, if the owners of the establishments so understand, taking into account the anxiety that they are subject to when they wait for the owner at the door of the establishments, they are not allowed to enter closed spaces, especially in restoration establishments. in the proposal submitted by the NAP, there are some aspects that cause us doubts, namely the conditions under which animals may be accepted in establishments. On the contrary, the Greens initiative seems to us to be clearer and more thoughtful in defending specific conditions for the presence of animals in establishments, taking into account, for example, the behaviour and the weight of animals. Indeed, we consider it essential, in this regard, to weigh the issues that arise from the public health, hygiene and safety of persons and even animals themselves, in order to safeguard all possible consequences and adverse consequences that may arise there. Furthermore, the CFP argues that the partners involved in this situation, in particular micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, both in the area of restoration and in other commercial areas, as well as the workers of these trades and associations of animal welfare, should be heard, in order to also listen to their contributions on the permission of animals in commercial establishments. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Members, recognizing the proximity and growing concern of Portuguese in relation to animal welfare, the CFP is available to deepen the discussion on the subject in order to ensure that animal-human interaction is always marked by a climate of tranquillity and respect. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u292	Mr Hugo Pires has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u293	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Over time, the most developed societies have made significant progress on the protection, protection and environment of pets in contemporary ways of living. in most of the Member States of the European Union, the issue we are discussing today — the permission of pets to enter commercial establishments — is already a reality for some time now. Today, in this House, we are taking another important step in animal policy. As the text of the petition now discussed states, «the animals are increasingly part of the life of the Portuguese». The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is therefore sensitive to the arguments put forward by some 5,000 Portuguese who signed this petition, as well as to the bills that the PAN, the Left Block and the Green Party presented in this same sense. Yes, we agree with a voluntary scheme which establishes the permission of animals to enter commercial establishments, and underlining the « volunteer ». Each of us can choose whether or not to attend a pet friendly establishment. No, we do not agree that the starting point is the universalization of entry into all establishments and that those who do not want to receive animals put a disticulum at the door to ban their entry. instead, we believe that it is preferable to communicate positively, in which commercial establishments wishing to receive pet animals can use a distic « pet friendly », thus affirming the will of them to receive in their commercial establishments. However, we do not overlook the need for certain definitions, such as « pet animals ». After all, what animals are we talking about? Just dogs and cats or other animals? More: we believe that this scheme should provide for some specific measures and procedures for these pet friendly spaces such as: animals may not be able to move freely in commercial establishments; animals may not remain in the service areas and places where food is exposed; animal characteristics; any aggressive behaviour in relation to other animals; any disease or lack of animal hygiene may motivate the person responsible for the establishment not to permit their stay on-site; and, finally, a limited number of animals that may be within a commercial establishment should be set at the same time. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Although we agree with the spirit of initiatives, we believe that the discussion on the speciality will be very important in achieving and improving the aspects referred to above. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will therefore put forward proposals for amendments to these initiatives, with the conviction that its contribution to the final text will safeguard the interests of animals, consumers and business owners. [[P.S. and P.C. Deputy Ana Virginia Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u294	Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u295	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to clarify that for the Left Block it is not a matter of free market initiative but of the right of animals to urban space. This petition has just put on the table one more question about the rights of animals and others that we want to see reinforced, such as: the guarantee of good treatment for animals; the non-authorization of shows with animals, because they are based on their inhuman and unworthy treatment, such as the Tauromachia or the circus with animals; the effective responsibility, inherent to each holder of spaces, in the need of an animal life; training for a more balanced life of people and animals; the existence of municipal animals; and the facilitation of an early life between animals and children. They are all issues that will allow the reduction of many phobias, a learning for the socialization and promotion of a friendly society of animals, inherently more fair and that would prevent us at this time from discussing whether or not animals are allowed to enter commercial spaces. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u296	To conclude this debate, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u297	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to record only the general consensus on this matter, since all parties agree that the interference of the State in this issue should be eliminated, which prevents owners from freely deciding who may or may not enter their establishments and also questions, in some cases, the protection and welfare of animals.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u298	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u299	Mr President, very quickly, I would like to say to all the parties that have challenged the NAP that we are available to, in particular — for this is what serves the specialty — to discuss some omissions or aspects that need to be detailed.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u300	Mrs. Members, at the end of this debate, we move on to the third point of our agenda, with the appreciation of petitions Nos 190 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recognition of the police profession as « rapid wear occupation » and amendment of the Statute of the PSP ( Autonomous Union of Police — ASAPOL ) and 235 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — They request the inclusion in the Professional Statute of the Public Safety Police of the status of a rapid wear professional ( Trade Union Association of Police Professionals — ASPP / PSP ) together in general with Bill No. 349 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the status of the police status ( CFP ) and also with draft resolution No 1074 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government work towards the recognition of professions relating to criminal police bodies as « rapid wear occupations » ( PAN ). To initiate this debate and present the PCP bill, Mr. Jorge Machado has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u301	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by greeting the petitioners, many of whom are present here, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, to attend this session, which raise a very fair question and which lacks an answer from the Assembly of the Republic. On the basis of the petition, the Trade Union of Police Professionals ( ASPP ), with more than 10 000 signatures, and the Autonomous Union of Police, with more than 2000 signatures, place the need to consider the exercise of police activity as a rapidly worn-out profession. in fact, shiftwork, use of firearms, pressure and stress associated with the risk of mission that these professionals perform make clear the need to recognize rapid wear. in the petition, petitioners raise the need to transform the words of recognition of these problems into acts, which the Assembly of the Republic legisle in order to ensure the supervision of health and safety at work and to be consecrated the status of rapid wear to these professionals. In response to the fair demands of these professionals, the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party presents a bill that aims to approve the status of the police condition. With this bill, something very much is enshrined, included in legal diplomas, but which does not yet have the body of law. For the PCP, there is an urgent need for law-enforcement of the police condition for all professionals of all security forces and services, which stipulates duties but also confers rights, due to the special conditions faced by the security forces and services agents. Among the duties, we emphasize the defence of democratic legality, internal security and fundamental rights, the subjection to the risks arising from the fulfilment of the missions, the duty of subordination to the command hierarchy, the restriction of rights in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution and, despite the existence of a working time, the permanent availability for the service. But, as it could not be, and so the CFP understands, the constitution of these special obligations, which no one else is required beyond the military, obliges the realization of rights that compensate for these obligations. Thus, as rights, we highlight: the establishment of a 35-hour working time; judicial support; free access to public places when in service; the use of public transport; the right to accommodation and penosity and risk allowance; and the right to special conditions of retirement and reservation, which, of course, must guarantee rapid wear. in the past, with the rejection of the PCP proposal that enshrined a framework law for the hygiene and safety at work for the professionals of the security forces and services, PS, PSD and CDS showed that the discourse of appreciation of the professionals of the security forces and services and the service they provide to the country does not go beyond that, of speech. Today, PS, PSD and CDS have a new opportunity to demonstrate which side they stand on. from the PCP, we value, and much, the work done by the professionals of the security forces and services, but we are not left by the discourse. Here we are, with a new legislative initiative that responds to the fair demands of these professionals. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u302	Mr André Silva has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u303	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners. Portugal is in the third position on the list of the most peaceful countries in the world in a context of great external visibility. The work carried out by the criminal police agencies cannot be dissociated from this climate of security involving the Portuguese, since they are responsible for maintaining it. however, the daily use of criminal police agencies brings numerous specificities, such as: shiftwork, which includes nighttime and weekend hours; the use of firearms; the enormous stress; recurrent problems of column; and the obvious risk associated with the exercise of this profession. These criteria are cross-sectional to the professions of rapid wear: pressure and existence of stress, emotional or physical wear and adverse working conditions. The activity of the criminal police agencies is fully within the above criteria, so the NAP initiative aims to ensure that the activities of these professionals are recognized as rapidly worn-out professions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u304	You have the floor, too, for an intervention, Mrs Sandra Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u305	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the petitioners of petitions Nos 190 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and 235 / XIII ( 2. a ) — many of them are — in the galleries, and say that effectively the exercise of police functions is, as has already been said, subject to strong pressure. The requirement, in terms of availability, of the skills and physical and psychological capacity and the effort resulting from the work in rotational shifts and night work are enormous and it is clear that all this has adverse consequences, not only in the organization of family and personal life, but also in health, with physical and psychological health disorders, including disturbances in circadian rhythms, which may consequently have implications for the performance of functions itself and lead to increased risks of errors or accidents. The petitioners therefore require that the risks of rapid wear and tear of this profession be recognized and legally rewarded. As it is certain that there is no legal table defining the range of rapid wear and risk professions, there are self-reform schemes in advance for certain professions, in which pilots, dancers, miners, fishermen and Madeira borders are included, among other professions. The Left Block recognises the difficulties in the exercise of police functions and also considers it necessary to intervene in order to ensure that sufficient human resources are contracted to avoid overburdening, the provision of the means and equipment necessary for the exercise of these functions, and the guarantee of adequate infrastructure. It is also important to clarify how career progress will be defrosted, already announced by the Government and widely disseminated in the public communication within the framework of the State budget for 2018. I remember that security forces professionals have had their career progressions frozen since 2005, 12 years ago, so it is also important to intervene in this direction and to ensure that these 12 years actually contain for the calculation of the step on which they will be placed. Finally, I would like to point out that the Left Block, because it takes note of these issues of night work, of shiftwork and of all the wear and pressure that this brings to those who perform this type of function, has already presented a legislative initiative, which is in the process of specialization, and we now invite the police elements to participate and to pronounce themselves on it, which proposes amendments to the legal-laborary regime and to the extension of social protection in the work by shift and night.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u306	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u307	I will finish, Mr. President. Among other things, this legislative initiative proposes the guarantee of a minimum period of 24 hours of rest on shift change and at least two days of weekend every six weeks of work; the definition of a maximum of 35 hours of work per week; the provision of the right to one more day of vacation for every two years of night work or shift work; several other amendments, including the increase in pay by night work and by shift; and the right to early retirement, without penalty, within two months of each year of shift or night work. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u308	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Andreia Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u309	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to leave a special compliment to all the petitioners, in particular to the two associations that promoted these two petitions — the Trade Union of Police Professionals and the Autonomous Union of Police — who wish to see the rapid wear in the profession of police professionals recognized. These petitions truly represent the will that exists in the recognition of the mission that police professionals carry out, of the risks they face, of penocity, of physical wear and psychological wear. It is well known that many are the aspects of the work of PSP professionals in the face of the imposing risks in which, often, there are such important issues as honor, determination, sacrifice and fear, mainly because almost all of them deal with situations of real danger. They defend the petitioners that this recognition would be very important for all men and women of the Public Security Police to feel more dignity in their work and to ensure the quality of the assistance and authority of the State itself. The truth, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is that these women and men are professionals who, in the first line of intervention, enter the field of any field of operations, regardless of the circumstances of action. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are two essential issues on the table, with regard to the need for a law guaranteeing permanent supervision of health conditions, working conditions and safety conditions, giving the example of the monitoring of equipment, which, if not in the right conditions, may call into question safety. The other question relates to the recognition of the risk of the profession, defending the petitioners the compensation of the same risk. I would like to say here, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who, on behalf of the Democratic Social Party, are available to, in a serious, clear and transparent manner, make the proper reflection on these claims framed in these two petitions. In fact, I can even say that it is imperative to make this reflection, as well as to make a reflection on the police condition.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u310	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u311	I'm done now, Mr. President. But we must not forget that, although we consider many of these fair claims, it will compete with the government admitted them. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u312	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u313	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to leave here a first word of fairness for the claim made by the petitioners, who are here today and who take advantage to greet, thanking the impetus and the warning that they give to the need, finally, to outline a health and safety regime in the work of security forces and services. This claim is as fair as it is not the first time that we have discussed it, and the problem, frankly, remains, it goes on, and it is necessary, in fact, now that we can overcome it. The CDS is fully at ease in this area, because it is not now that it defends, for example, the coverage of occupational accident or disease risk insurance, but this has never been accepted, and therefore we are fully prepared to discuss it. We have been, have been, and will be available to discuss this issue with seriousness and rigour, preferably from now on in the next debate of the State budget, where this issue may have a bearing and where the government can take advantage of this issue. I wanted to say, moreover, that, a few months ago, an initiative, which was from the CFP, was worth the truth, that it was precisely aimed to start this discussion and that it had been piped. She's been sucked because-- she's freaking me out! — the PS considered that there were no budgetary conditions for this purpose. The CDS is not alien to this issue, which is complex, obviously. We are not beyond the question of being complex the special status that the forces and security services have,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u314	What about the PCP proposal? They also had the right to vote...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u315	... we are not alien to the special organization within the Public Administration of security forces and services, we are not alien to differentiation, as it could not but be, and very well, that the security forces and services have of the remaining public functionalism. What we do not admit is that, on the pretext of budgetary questions, what is already unacceptable and unacceptable and which is already rustling, if not disrespect, surely lack of interest. This is because, strangely or perhaps not, budgetary issues for this government have only been imposed in the areas of sovereignty, particularly as regards security forces and services. And that's an extraordinary thing! Security forces and services, which are armed with lack of technical means, individual means of protection, without cars, with degraded infrastructure, are confronted with the absolute derivative of a Ministry, which, when it does something, usually does harm and which, most of the time, olympically ignores the problems and does not account for any of the cases. So I end up as I began, saying that the CDS will be committed to studying the best solutions: solutions that do not attract to legal services what belongs to the field of medicine; solutions that do not prefer saving to people; solutions that do not push people to the abyss, which often leads to drastic and final situations, as is the case with suicides.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u316	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u317	I will finish, Mr. President. Therefore, we will - we will - be committed to solutions that serve the most basic needs of these professionals, to whom, from this bench, we pay our tribute and leave a huge well-being. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u318	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u319	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words are for, on behalf of the Greens Ecological Party, to greet the thousands of citizens who have subscribed to the two petitions we are discussing today, in particular those who accompany us today in this work. I would, of course, like to extend this greeting to the trade unions that have promoted these two petitions, not only by the fact that they have stimulated the petitions, but also through all the work that, over the course of time, has been developing in the defence of the rights of police professionals. Petitioners, men and women who, every day and every hour, work to ensure democratic normality and to ensure life in society, make use of this excellent instrument of participatory democracy, which is the petition, in order to be recognized the risk and the rapid wear in the profession of the police professional. When we talk about the recognition of risk and rapid wear, we talk about merely formal or legislative recognition, because, in fact, we all certainly recognize that police professionals develop a risk and rapid wear profession. And if police professionals actually develop this kind of work, that means that the legislative power is missing from them, because it has not yet legally recognized what is obvious to all. However, this failure is important to overcome, it is this injustice that needs to be removed, in particular by the inclusion of « quick-exhaustion profession » in the professional status of the Public Security Police. in fact, police professionals often develop an activity subject to great stress, a work that even requires the use of firearms and that has to be developed independently of climate conditions. Make rain or make sun, cold or hot, whether night or day, police professionals have to go to the street to develop their activity, to develop their functions as a way to ensure social tranquility. Many times under great pressure, police professionals are subject to shift schedules, night work and the weekend, which naturally causes great emotional but also physical wear and tear. It is therefore in our view entirely fair that this House of the Republic, because it does not have to be the government — and it seems to me very little sense that this responsibility is handed over to the Government — that it has all the competence to do so, including because there is even a bill in that sense...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u320	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u321	But it is quite right that this House responds to the purposes that have motivated the thousands of subscribers of both petitions. in this sense, The Greens fully follow the objectives expressed in these petitions by police professionals and accompany the Portuguese Communist Party in its legislative initiative that intends to approve the status of the police condition that is also under discussion and that, in our view, comes to respond not only to the injustice that falls on police professionals, but also to all other state agents and officials who perform police duties. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u322	You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Susana Amador of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u323	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I present a special greeting on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group to the more than 12,000 petitioners, some of whom are present here. I would obviously like to welcome them for the exercise of citizenship, for the defence of their rights and also for the strength and vitality that represent these petitions in terms of participatory democracy. Requests Nos 190 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), of the Autonomous Union of Police ( ASAPOL ), and 235 / XII ( 2. a ), by the Trade Union Association of Police Professionals ( ASPP ), have the same object, i.e. their petitioners request the review of the status of the Public Security Police, contained in Decree-Law 243 / 2015 of 19 October, in order to see the police profession recognized as a rapidly worn-out profession. from there your joint debate today, here at this plenary session. With the same wish, however, the draft resolution No 1074 / XIII ( 3 ) was scheduled by drag. ( a ) by the authorship of the NAP. in the context of the discussion of the Annual Internal Security Report, which we appreciated here last week, we had the opportunity to underline the continued decline of general crime and violent crime compared to 2015, the relevance of special police and prevention programmes and the decisive role of security forces for these results that make Portugal one of the safest countries in the world. Again, here too is the greeting of the PS. on this occasion, we welcomed the work of men and women who, at the service of the various security forces, including the PSP, protect the community daily, guarantee public security and tranquility and give the best of themselves in an activity that we recognize is of risk, of high degree of danger and of particular physical and psychological requirement. As regards the matter under discussion today, which is of the utmost importance, it should be noted that, therefore, the legal order has already incorporated a set of specific regulations applicable to staff with police functions in the PSP which regard precisely the particularities and requirements of the police condition, namely the existence of a special regime governing the conditions and rules for the allocation and calculation of pensions for reform, the convergence regime and the old and the general social security scheme for staff with police functions of the PSP ( Decree-Law No 4 / 2017 of 6 January 2017 ), which has as one of its differentiating elements an age of access to reduced pensions within six years in relation to the generality of the population, being further ensured that the sustainability factor and the reduction factor for early retirement have not been applied, provided that the person has completed the age of access to the pension provided for in this scheme. The professional status also provides for a regime for the transition to the pre-invoicing status of the police ( Article 112 ). o ) and there is also the forecast of specific remuneration supplements, taking into account the police condition, resulting from the same status, more specifically in its paragraphs 2 and 3. Therefore, since there is legal provision, which we can assess whether or not it is sufficient to allocate remuneration supplements, in particular in view of the particular conditions of physical and psychological wear, it seems to us that the creation of any other remuneration increase aimed at compensating the wear inherent to the profession will have to be incompetently compensating and evaluating the inherent impacts. Impacts of those that also apply to Bill No. 349 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) the CFP, relating to the status of the police condition, which seeks to cover a universe of bodies which have different natures, professional status and operating standards within the same legal framework.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u324	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u325	I will finish immediately, Mr. President. In addition, the PCP bill contains broad-ranging standards, whose impacts, at the operational and financial level, are difficult to estimate and also provides for provisions that contravene the rules of organic and statutory provisions of GNR, PSP and SEF that we will best assess. However, we are always available to assess these and other related issues related to the existing working conditions, in an ever-wide dialogue framework, which has been the mark of this Government, recognizing the specificities of the police condition and its permanent availability, thus giving particular attention to the modernization of the sector, its valorization, the dignity of its professionals, which stems from the Government Programme, the 2017 strategic guidelines and which will certainly be reflected in the 2017 State Budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u326	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus concluded the last item on our agenda. Before I announce the order of business for tomorrow, I would ask Secretary Pedro Alves to report on the file which, in the meantime, has entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u327	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I should like to inform you that the Left Block Parliamentary Group has requested the withdrawal of its Bill No. 598 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Ensure access to minimum banking services to customers with a housing credit contract. I also inform you that you have entered the Bureau, and it has been admitted, draft resolution No 1078 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government exceptional support measures for farmers affected by drought ( CDS-PP ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-11.u328	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the plenary will meet again tomorrow at 3 p.m. the agenda includes a PSD marking on « Knowledge and creation of value », in which the projects of lein. 619 / XIII ( 3 ) will be discussed together. ( a ) — Amends Decree-Law No 55 / 2013 of 17 April approving the organization of the Foundation for Science and Technology, IP ( PSD ), 620 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the Decree-Law No 448 / 79 of 13 November approving the Statute of the University Teacher Career ( PSD ) and 621 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amends Decree-Law No 185 / 81 of 1 July approving the Statute of the College of Political Higher Education ( PSD ) together with draft resolutions No 1069 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of the employment of doctors in society ( PSD ), 1070 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the promotion of an intellectual property policy to encourage investment and innovation ( PSD ) and 1071 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of technology transfer between Universities and Polytechnics and society ( PSD ). I thank all of you and all of you for your cooperation in this afternoon's work, and from now on, I apologize for the delays that have been committed by me. I wish the continuation of a good afternoon to all. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 28 minutes.]]
