ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mrs and others. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of authority to open the galleries. Mr. Secretary Duarte Pacheco will report on the file you entered the Bureau. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform you that they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. First of all, I refer to Bill No 61 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — establishes the legal regime for the prevention, prohibition and combat of discrimination on the basis of racial and ethnic origin, colour, nationality, descent and territory of origin, which falls below 1. the Commission. Proposals for resolutions 46 / XIII ( 2 ) were also put into the Bureau. ( a ) — Approves the Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the EFTA States SADC, of the other part, signed in Kasane on 16 June 2016, which falls to 2. the Commission, 47 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Peru on the protection, conservation, recovery and return of cultural, paleontological, archaeological, artistic and historical, stolen, stolen and illicitly exported or transferred goods signed in Lisbon on 19 November 2012 which falls to 2. the Commission, and 48 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of South Africa on Scientific and Technological Cooperation, signed in Durban on 28 August 2015, which falls to 2. the Commission. They also entered the Table the projects of lein.os 411 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Change of the current denomination of « Rua » in the municipality of Moimenta da Beira ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 412 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Social mobility allowance ( PSD ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 413 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Establishs the basis for environment policy ( CFP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 414 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Alter to Law No 108 / 91 of 17 August governing the Economic and Social Council ( PSD ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and 415 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Includes representatives of pensioners and pensioners in the Economic and Social Council, amending Law No 108 / 91 of 17 August ( PSD ), which falls to 10. the Commission. In addition, draft resolutions 668 / XIII ( 2 ) were introduced. ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Croatia ( President of the HR ), 669 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government grant a new period of temporary exemption from payment of social security contributions to milk producers ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 670 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to simplify the allocation and reimbursement of the social mobility allowance between the continent and the Autonomous Region of the Azores and between the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( PSD ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 671 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create a separate and specific ratio for agricultural professional and rural development schools in such a way as to equip them with operational assistants in sufficient numbers to respond to the needs ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 672 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends urgent measures to enhance the cemeteries of our heroes ( PSD ), which fall to 3. the Commission, and 673 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government safeguard the Portuguese sound, music and radio ( PSD ) heritage, which falls to 12. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. I ask the public present in the galleries to observe as much silence as possible. I would also like to ask the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, please sit down to start the agenda. Those who need to go chat outside of the Hemicycle and then come back in. [[Pause.]] I think the conditions for starting our work are met. Today's agenda consists of the 15th-year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( b ). that of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, which means that it is the parliamentary groups that begin to ask questions to the Prime Minister. Mr Catarina Martins of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor, first of all, to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister, the Banco de Portugal has announced that it only accepts a solution for the New Bank : the sale to the Lone Star Fund. According to the information that has come to the public, the business would be like this: the state loses EUR 3900 million — which it has already spent — Lone Star buys for zero euros and then makes a capitalisation, i.e., pays to itself, but does not exempt the participation of the Resolution Fund. My question is this: will the Government agree to give guarantees on behalf of the Resolution Fund on the sale of the New Bank? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u5	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u6	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, the Bank of Portugal informed the Government that it considered a phase of negotiations to be closed and that it understood that the negotiations should now continue exclusively with one of those concerned at this stage, Lone Star, understanding that this negotiation now also required the participation of the Government. The government, as it has always said, will only take a final assessment on the basis of the result. In any case, there is something important to stress: in no case will the State lose EUR 3900 million or any portion of that amount. EUR 3900 million is a state loan to the Resolution Fund and will be supported by the financial system. Therefore, the financial system may have to bear the payment to the State of EUR 3900 million, in addition to the link to the New Bank's alienation process. with regard to the State, I had the opportunity to clarify at a Conference of the Portuguese Banks Association about a year ago that the fact that it was sold at a lower value does not exonerate banks than they have to pay to the State. And what they will have to pay the state is certainly EUR 3900 million, benefiting from the Lone Star payment or from its own resources. But they have to pay, they do. The only thing that was clarified for the banking system as a whole for the stabilization of its balance sheets was the payment conditions, which were the subject of a portfolio several months ago and which enabled the impact of the balance sheets of this quota responsibility of the banking system to be stabilised. That is what has been done and we will have to deal with this. As the honourable Member will remember, when the Banco de Portugal has communicated the proposal, the Government has laid down three rules. First of all — the fundamental rule — that there should be alienation only to those who ensure the Bank's long-term continuity, that it is not dismantled and that it is kept at the service of the economy and, in particular, of small and medium-sized enterprises. Secondly, there are no guarantees from the State. Thirdly, the solution that has the least negative impact on the stabilization of the financial system as a whole. These were the three rules we set out at the beginning and we will not leave them at the next stage of the negotiation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u7	You also have the floor to Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, what the bank will or will not be able to pay the Resolution Fund within 20 years, we will see! I understand that maybe the country does not have much confidence that we can see this money in 20 years and yet all the costs of the Resolution Fund go to the state deficit. I know that the negotiations have not yet ended, but my question is about a previous political decision, a previous political criterion: if the Lone Star Fund requires the Resolution Fund a guarantee, knowing that this guarantee will be a deficit of the State, the Government, after all, admits to giving guarantees about the underpaid, contrary to what it has publicly promised? In other words, does the Prime Minister accept or not any public guarantee or cover future contingencies through the Resolution Fund to facilitate the sale to Lone Star? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u9	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u10	Mr President, you will excuse me, but I will repeat exactly what I said in the previous reply: among the three rules that the Government has defined and transmitted to Banco de Portugal, one of them is the failure to grant guarantees by the State. That rule has not changed in this negotiation process that we have before us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u11	Speak again to Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u12	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I find that I have said nothing about guarantees given by the Resolution Fund and we know that this Fund is always a public deficit, as it has been and how it will be at least for 20 years. Moreover, from this point of view, the BSE resolution process was disastrous: taxpayers have already effectively lost EUR 3900 million, denying all the promises of the right on zero cost in the BES resolution. But, Prime Minister, it may be even worse if we sell the New Bank. It's just that the sale isn't just the repeat of the past mistake, let's repeat two. It is because we already have a resolution with losses and everything indicates that this sale will be like that of BPN to BIC or that of BANIF to Santander, i.e. we will lose twice money with the same bank. on the contrary, if the New Bank is nationalized, even if it requires a recapitalisation of EUR 750 million, we would be protected from paying perhaps billions of euros for future losses to a private fund and we would gain time and capacity to intervene in the economy to make sense of the investment of EUR 39 billion that taxpayers have already been obliged to do in this Bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u14	The decision that is now on the table is to hand over the largest bank in the SME area to a fund which will liquidate everything that can in the shortest possible time and pass the bill of losses to the State — and in this case taxpayers lose everything they have already been forced to put in the Bank — or then the alternative, take over the New Bank's public control and ensure that, for once, taxpayers' money is at the service of the economy and not of the profit of a few, and that is the position of the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr. Prime Minister, we have spent too much money on taxpayers with the bank and we have been very intransparent about it. I must also tell you that, on this subject, the Left Block is concerned that the PSD and the CDS have decided to paralyze the Committee of Inquiry into the General Deposit Box to find out why we need 5000 million recapitalisation. The Block well knows that the right is irritated and also realizes that Antonio Domingues is irritated. The Bloc is at ease, it was the only party on the left who voted for António Domingues to be bound by the duties of transparency, which eventually led him to resign, but democracy is the same.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u16	What we do not accept is that Parliament is instrumentalized for the escape of Antonio Domingues... [[Congratulations from BE.]] ... and, if the former cashier has something to say or show, that he does, he doesn't need intermediaries. What the Left Block wants is that there may be conclusions in a process in which the right has responsibilities, because it has hidden, during a mandate, the recapitalization needs of the General Deposit Box, which have been so bulkier. It is EUR 5000 million that has to be explained and what the Left Block says is that it makes no sense to stop a committee of inquiry without conclusions to start another one that has no business. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr. Prime Minister, I wanted to talk to you about something else. As you know, in the same week that the United Nations condemns Portugal for its cuts in support for disabled people during the PSD/CDS government, we know that the right has left the country for offshore EUR 28 billion, of which EUR 10 billion without any investigation. In fact, there is no better portrait of the previous government: who has 100 € to pay taxes or has a burden; who has 100 million euros does not pay anything and, above all, has an amnesty! [[PSD protests.]] The previous government left the ‘horse door’ EUR 10 billion. It's a number that's nothing small. It's much more than everything we spend on the National Health Service! Paulo Nuncio, former State Secretary of the CDS, says he doesn't know anything, and that we can't accept. What we want is explanations from the former Secretary of State, but also from the current, to ensure three things: that the escape is not repeated, that it is held accountable who allowed the escape and that everything that can be monitored is monitored. Mr. Prime Minister, what I wanted today was your commitment not to solve everything this time with a tax amnesty, such as those who washed the money from the hidden businesses of the submarines or José Guilherme's gift to Ricardo Salgado. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u17	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u18	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, I begin by answering the second question you asked me, but I will not fail to answer the first one. As for your second question, I mean that in 2015 the Government ordered that what had happened with regard to the registration of operations carried out between 2011 and 2015 from offshore transfers. It was then found that there were significant discrepancies because there were 20 statements submitted that had not been the subject of any treatment by the Tax Authority. All these transfers amounted to EUR 10 billion. Therefore, the Government has done its best: to ensure that all these declarations were processed and published, as they were, and to ask the General Finance Inspectorate to find out why for four years the Tax Authority has been exempted from this obligation to monitor transfers to offshore. From there to here, we don't just do this. As you know, we have adopted a set of measures to control these movements: it has since broadened the competences of the Big Contributors Unit; the conditions for exchange of information have been strengthened; the 2017 State Budget, approved in this House, has created a set of rules for tax abuse; and a series of agreements have been adopted, as you well know, since they have already been approved in this House, aimed to strengthen precisely the exchange of information for control over offshore issues. As for the New Bank, our position is always the same : we will decide the solution that, in the face of the concrete situation, is the one that best protects the interests of taxpayers, the best interests of the national economy and the stability of the financial system as a whole. As we have said from the outset, we have not excluded any solution and we are in this good faith negotiation. I'm not going to anticipate it here, since none of us have a Lone Star mandate to do this negotiation. The mandate we have is to represent the interest of taxpayers, the economy and the stability of the financial system as a whole in this negotiation. Finally, I would like to say that as regards doubts about transparency, the judgment published this week by the Constitutional Court makes it quite clear that no transparency has ever been involved in the obligation of the administrators of the General Deposit Board to submit their statements to the Constitutional Court. I read a small passage of the judgment published by the Constitutional Court : « (...) the purpose of the exception to the application of the Statute of the Public Manager has nothing to do with...» — and the phrase « nothing to do with» is in italic — «... with the subjection of the administrators concerned to the duties imposed by Law No 4 / 83 ». In other words, as the Constitutional Court unanimously decided, there was no exemption for the administrators of the General Deposit Board to comply with the obligation to submit their statements to the Constitutional Court. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u19	You also have the floor to Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u20	Mr President, Prime Minister, tax evasion and the fight against offshore is, for the Left Block, a matter of greatest gravity. We proposed in June 2016 that non-cooperating offshore operations be prohibited, i.e. that only serve to hide crime money, and that proposal was plunged with the votes against the PSD, the CDS, but also the PS. Mr. Prime Minister, we will resubmit the proposal. The more certain offshore scandals reveal the reasons for the Left Block in this matter. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr. Prime Minister, to conclude, I just wanted to leave you a question and an appeal, and the question is about Almaraz. The Government's retreat was a mistake. In order to receive basic information that should already be known to the Portuguese State, the Government did not need or should have withdrawn the complaint from the European Union against the Spanish Government. The Spanish Government gives no guarantee: the construction is not suspended, the aim is to put the warehouse to work and there is still a request for prolongation of Almaraz's life. Mr. Prime Minister, to consult an assessment of the environmental impact that was unilaterally made by the Spanish Government, there was no need to guarantee anything.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u21	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u22	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. What I ask you, Prime Minister, is whether the Portuguese Government will put on the table at the Iberian summit the closure of the Almaraz plant, as approved unanimously in the Assembly of the Republic. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PAN.]] Finally, the appeal...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u23	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u24	I ask you for 5 seconds, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, this morning began the eviction of 35 families from the core of the Farol, on the island of Culatra. The houses will be demolished at a time when the POOC (Orla Costeira Ordering Plan) has not yet been changed, as decided in this Assembly of the Republic, and no one has talked to the people.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u25	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy. I'm sorry, but it's been a long time since I had it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u26	The Left Block — and I conclude by this — takes environmental issues very seriously, but no demolition is done first and then prepares for it. That was the project on the right and it was wrong. The appeal I make to you, Prime Minister, is to stop the demolition and do this as it should be done. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u27	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u28	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, in 1 second that Mr President will grant me, I will not develop my answer on the issue of Almaraz, except to say that we did not retreat. We have done what we had to do to better defend national interests, as I will certainly have the opportunity to explain in the answer to another question. however, since I am not sure I have another opportunity to respond to what is happening in the Formosa River, I wanted to say the following: there was an intense dialogue not only with the populations, but also with the city of Olhão, on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u29	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u30	in this dialogue, the agreement was reached to profoundly change what was envisaged, moreover, the Police had already notified, and this was disallowed by the Minister of the Environment, having led to the resignation of the President of the Police, having had a limitation and intervention is only 60 houses, all in the public domain, all in risk areas, all that are not first housing...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u31	You must conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u32	...and all who are neither fishermen nor living creatures. Thank you very much, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u33	It is the turn of the PSD Parliamentary Group. To put questions, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u34	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I would like to begin with a statement made by Mr Prime Minister at the opening of this debate in response to Mrs Catarina Martins. Mr Prime Minister said, with regard to the consequences of the sale of the New Bank, that the State will in no case lose the EUR 3, EUR 9 billion which were put into the Resolution Fund as a loan, since this value must be borne by the institutions of the financial system. I would like to take advantage of this reference to say that it is remarkable that it took so long—more than two and a half years—as Secretary-General of the Socialist Party and then as Prime Minister, to recognize what the previous government repeatedly...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u35	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u36	... and I, already in the opposition, have said about the EUR 3, EUR 9 billion loan that has been made available to the Resolution Fund, thus concluding that the transaction has no cost to the taxpayer. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, I take a long time off, but that ends up giving reason to what we have always said.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u37	Good try!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u38	however, I deeply regret that he has been all this time feeding the false idea that the state and taxpayers had lost the 3, 9 billion that they had placed there,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u39	No, it's not false!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u40	... statements made often without account by the Left Block, by the Portuguese Communist Party and even by the Socialist Party's bench in this Parliament. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Secondly, and very quickly, also on the subject which was raised by Mrs Catarina Martins and which I dare to anticipate, because it may also be dealt with by other parties of the majority, about news coming to the public yesterday and today about transfers to tax havens that have not been treated by the Tax Authority, I would like to tell Mr Prime Minister that, when I performed government functions, I never had any knowledge of any of these situations. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u41	You forgot!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u42	But, Prime Minister, I want to tell you that today, in the opposition, I am the first interested in having exactly everything that has happened. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] It is necessary to know why an order from the former Secretary of State has not been complied with by the Tax Authority and, in this sense, why the statistical data have not been published; when and exactly in what circumstances these discrepancies have occurred in the light of the day and the possibility of having received communications from the banks or the Banco de Portugal to the Tax Authority that have not been treated for tax purposes; when the Government has become aware of this matter and in what circumstances; whether this has been due to the fact that there has been no publication of the statistics or simply if the facts are not linked and the Government has been aware of this matter by any other way; find out why, in the event of no tax treatment, the Tax Authority submits that it has not done so; and whether there has been any involvement or some political responsibility of the Government in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u43	Just ask the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u44	All this, Prime Minister, is essential. Therefore, we will hear both the political leaders and the current and previous administration on these matters and will lead to the final outcome of the resolution of this situation. I want to tell you, Prime Minister, that we will do today, in opposition, exactly the opposite of what you, in government, and the majority who support you are doing with respect to the General Deposit Box,... [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] ... where there is a full concealment and even a violation of the most basic rules of transparency only because the government wants to protect information that is relevant to public opinion, to the country, to this House and to Parliament because it can cause you discomfort. Mr. Prime Minister, I am not disturbed by what may have happened during the period in which you perform your duties today,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u45	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u46	... but I deeply regret that the majority who support the Government do not have the same availability so that the truth can be achieved in relation to the General Deposit Box, contrary to what Mrs Catarina Martins suggested. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] On the specific box, I want to ask Mr. Prime Minister two questions. First of all, since he quoted a Constitutional Court ruling on income declarations that should have been submitted by the former Box managers to the Constitutional Court — in fact, he mentioned the part in which he said that the decree-law that was approved by the Government did not exempt them from these obligations, so they have to present them — my question is this: if this interpretation of the Constitutional Court is considered to be so obvious, why was the Government itself not ready to make that clarification when the decree-law was published? Why has Mr. Prime Minister since then not clearly stated that these statements had to be made? And why did the Under-Secretary of State and Finance say exactly the opposite, then the controversy about this matter was raised?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u48	In other words, the amendment would have just been aimed at preventing the declarative duties from being completed. I therefore wonder why it took so long and did not anticipate, in this case, the Constitutional Court being the author of the legislation that was published. Secondly, I would like to ask Mr. Prime Minister whether it is true that the General Deposit Box will pay, or you have already paid, expenses with offices of lawyers or consultants made by Dr. António Domingues at the time when he was not yet President of the General Deposit Box. And now I would like to ask Mr Prime Minister if he knows what the expenses were and whether they were actually paid by the General Deposit Box or not. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u49	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u50	Mr President, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, I find that the PSD and the CDS have the following responsibility sharing rule: when we speak of BANIF, Mrs Assumption Cristas says that nothing knows, that nothing has to do with history, because you have never even heard of this matter in the Council of Ministers ;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... when it comes to non-compliance by the tax administration under the custody of a State Secretary of the CDS, it is Mr Deputy, at the time Prime Minister, who « washes his hands » and says « I have nothing to do with this. This is a matter of the Secretary of State who was from the CDS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] I would like to inform you, Mr President, that this information is published today because our Government has published what it has been waiting for four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member can therefore consult and verify that the data that came to the public did not come by chance; they came to the public because the order of the current government was fulfilled for them to be published. This was because it was found that it was in fact to comply with the publication of these data and therefore was given the order. With regard to the General Deposit Box, Mr President-in-Office will have been dismissed, but since the first hour I have explained — indeed, as the President of the Republic has also done — there has never been any doubt on the part of the Government or of the President-in-Office of the Republic that the amendment to the Statute of the Public Manager in no way except as to the obligations to submit the income statements. In fact, this doubt, as I said in the last debate, was not raised by any Member of Parliament or by any Member of Parliament when the diploma was appreciated in the Assembly of the Republic. What has been discussed here was the amount of salaries and no Member has ever doubted this matter. I'm glad they didn't, because now the Constitutional Court has left the matter totally clear. Secondly, I should like to tell you that we have all the transparency for this government's period of time to check everything they want. Moreover, as far as I know, the divergence within the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry does not refer to the period of validity of this Government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u51	Don't you? Oh,
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u52	...but, yes, for the period of time of other governments...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u53	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u54	... for which this Government is absolutely at will. But it is not up to us to replace ourselves in the way the Assembly of the Republic conducts, with complete independence, the investigations which the Assembly of the Republic itself intends to carry out. As for the second information, I honestly do not know what the expenses paid by the General Deposit Box are. But there is one thing I can assure you: this government will not interfere on a day-to-day basis with the management of public enterprises and, in particular, the General Deposit Box to know how much it charges, or how much it pays. This is not how we understand the General Deposit Box as a public bank. The General Deposit Box is not a government bank, it is a state bank to be at the service of the economy rather than seeking to satisfy the curiosity of government members. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u55	Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor, too.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u56	Mr President, Prime Minister, you may speak well, but you do not say what you said the other time. More: every time he talks, he contradicts himself and, Mr. Prime Minister, it only breeds distrust. You, from the outset, apologized to the Constitutional Court not to assume clearly that, in the legislation that the Government approved, the managers of the General Deposit Box were obliged to submit their returns. If you had said that clearly from the beginning, the problem would probably not have even been put. It was precisely because a State Secretary of his Government said the opposite, that it was because suspicions, with well-founded data, that his Minister of Finance negotiated such circumstances that the Committee of Inquiry should have ascertained whether or not this happened. And the government not only refused to provide this information, as there are doubts that the Minister of Finance has answered with truth to the Commission of Inquiry when it was confronted with these matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u57	All right! That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u58	What we know is that not only does the Government excuse itself on the previous part from sending the information that is necessary, either through itself or through the Box, so that the Commission can do its work, such as the Socialist Party and the majority who support it prevent it from being readjusted, even if the object of the Committee of Inquiry is not only that there is no doubt about what has happened but also to find out what has happened. So, among what you say, what is the practice and what I have already said in the past is a huge distance, Prime Minister. And that is how we lose the credibility not only of the Minister of Finance but also of the Prime Minister. [[PSD and PS Members applauded.]] I would also like to ask Mr Prime Minister the following: we have known, within a week, several indications about what is the nature of the structural imbalances in the Portuguese economy. [[Rice from PS Members and members of the Government.]] It is good to laugh, Mr Prime Minister, because these structural imbalances have been generated for many years with your support and with the support of many of you who are in your government. [[PSD applause.]] That's exactly it! These structural imbalances deserve most of the institutions that have made important comments about them, especially drawing attention to the fact that there has been no sensitive effort by the government to combat them in the last year.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u59	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u60	I shall conclude, Mr President. We are concerned that one year has been lost in the fight against these structural imbalances, especially because today we could be in much better condition to face the transformation reforms of our economy that would allow us to grow more and converge with Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u61	Thank you, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u62	Let me conclude, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u63	Please, but conclude within time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u64	I'll get it. Mr. Prime Minister, since his majority is against any structural reform, being only in favour of the reversal of those that have already been made, as it will justify that the Portuguese economy and the effort that the Portuguese state has been making...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u65	Don't be lazy! He's armed in folds!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u66	... be opposed to the one that needed to be done and why does it continue to push with the belly and with management in Parliament? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u67	I recall that the times are all confirmed in the Leaders Conference. The Government and the Left Block have exceeded the time available and therefore there must be due compensation for the other parliamentary groups, but there should be no exaggeration. Please respond, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u68	Mr President, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, I find it necessary to arrive at the time of the discounts to get out of the subject of SMS tricks and start talking about the real problems and the economy of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That says all about this debate and about the position of the government and the PSD today. I would start by pointing out to the honourable Member a small fact that it might be important: it is true that, even today, the European Commission has signalled several structural imbalances in the country and has worked with data on 31 December 2015 — I repeat, 31 December 2015!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u69	Oh, it's not possible...!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u70	It is clear that not even an optimist like I believe it would be possible to perform the miracle of, between 31 December 2015 and late February 2017, having solved all these structural problems. What I can tell you is that today, each of these structural problems is in a better position than it was at the end of 2015, i.e. let me remind you, at the end of the four years of your governance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And if we were to see our international exposure, the truth is that we had a negative imbalance of 109 % and today it is 103 %; for private sector debt, we had an imbalance of 181% and today it is 176 %. It's high, it's true, but it's lower than the one who existed when you ended your governance! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, Mr President, I would like to tell you frankly the following: I admit that I still find myself irritating, but one year ago, I must admit that I am not optimistic, I was simply realistic,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... while you, a year later, show up here not only as a pessimist but as an irritated pessimist. And he's upset because he adopted as a strategy that everything that was good for the country was bad for him and that it would only be good for him what was bad for the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] It was this defeatist strategy, without a future, that blocked it in small tricks on SMS, without having anything to say to Portuguese, Portuguese, companies, about the future and about the reality of our country. What really irritates you is that we left 2015 slowing the economy down and leaving 2016 with the economy growing 1, 9 %, one of the highest growths in the whole European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What is irritating is that during 2016 the unemployment rate dropped almost 2 percentage points and almost 100,000 net jobs were created during 2016. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What irritates you, Mr. Pedro Passos Coelho, is that private investment and exports increased during 2016. But what angers him even more is that the deficit we had in 2016 was the lowest of the 42 years of Portuguese democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, you know, the honourable Member is angry, but the Portuguese have regained confidence. That's why, even last year,... [[PSD protests.]] It's not worth insulting because they don't intimidate me with your insults. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u71	Mr. Prime Minister, the Bureau did not hear any insults, otherwise it had interrupted the session, as is obvious.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u72	Of course, Mr. President. But I heard and just wanted to say that you don't intimidate me with insults. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u73	The insults only show that your leader's irritation is contagious. Unfortunately, they're all upset. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u74	Be well educated!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u75	But Mr. Pedro Passos Coelho, his irritation is inversely proportional to the confidence of the Portuguese who last month revealed a confidence index that had reached a maximum that had not been reached since 2000. It is for those we work for, it is for the confidence of the Portuguese. I'm only sorry that this irritates you because it should also infect you and motivate you to look to the future. however, I have already seen that he is definitely a prisoner of the past and encased in tricks, because nothing relevant has to say to the country — to Portuguese and Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u76	It is the turn of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. You have the floor to ask questions, Mr João Paulo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, Prime Minister, the subject of transfers of EUR 10 billion to offshore between 2011 and 2014 without proper monitoring and tax treatment by our tax administration is, in our view, an alarming, serious and very worrying matter. But, Prime Minister, even more serious than we know this is today the Prime Minister of this government who brought here, instead of the answers that the Portuguese want to know, more questions and have been unable to answer why that happened, because while they transferred EUR 10 billion to offshore and did not pay taxes, cut wages, cut pensions, cut unemployment allowance... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and even filled their own and permanent dwellings for tax debts of 1000 and 2000 €. The former Government, Prime Minister, left an authentic clock bomb in our financial system. The former government knew the problems that affected BANIF and decided to put them in the drawer, as it also knew the problems that affected the General Deposit Box and then also chose to pretend that nothing knew. There is information from the General Inspection of Finance, about a report by the Board of Audit and Internal Control of the Box, of the second quarter of 2014, which says in its conclusions — and this was from the knowledge of the previous Government on 14 January 2015, that the inequalities on 30 June 2014 amounted to EUR 4635 million, reflecting an increase of EUR 313 million, compared to the previous quarter. This proves that in fact the former Government knew and knew the problems affecting the General Deposit Box. The General Deposit Box is deserving of the amuos and the different states of mind of the PSD and the CDS : for days when they want to leave the Committee of Inquiry and for days when they want to remain in the Committee of Inquiry ; for days when they are against the interruption of work and for days when they propose the interruption of work ; for days when they stand up for the object of the Committee of Inquiry, intransigently, and for days when they argue that it is preferable to bring to the object of the Committee of Inquiry other matters which are not part of the same object ; and for days when they propose a new commission of inquiry without knowing what to do with the current Commission of Inquiry. With regard to the announced new committee of inquiry, it is not by chance that the PSD and the CDS have not been able to present the proposal for the establishment of that committee of inquiry. in fact, what is making it difficult to present a new committee of inquiry is its legal and unconstitutional framework, taking into account the objective of accessing correspondence and means of communication. In this regard, Mr. Prime Minister, I will quote a former Member of this House on a very similar subject: « (...) the Constitution... », in Article 34. , paragraphs 1 and 4, «... declares inviolable ‘the home and secrecy of correspondence and other means of communication’ and expressly prohibits ‘all interference of public entities in correspondence, telecommunications and other media, except as provided for in the criminal proceedings law’. (...) the Constitution only permits the violation of the secrecy of correspondence and telecommunications in criminal proceedings — which excludes Parliamentary investigations at all (...) ». I have just mentioned Dr. Mota Amaral, former PSD Member, former President of the Assembly of the Republic, as Chairman of the Commission of Inquiry to the PT/TVI case. What I just read proves to the PSD and CDS is worth everything to destroy the General Deposit Box, with the main objective of its privatization. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And it's all worth attacking the government. What the PSD and CDS did not really count was the success of the negotiations with Brussels, which led to the ongoing recapitalisation without this being considered public aid. The Government and the Minister of Finance have managed to avoid the resolution of the Box and thus have avoided an incalculable invoice for the taxpayer's purse. That is why PSD and CDS have used the Box for an irresponsible and ill attack on the Government and on the Minister for Finance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The right is irritated, it is irritated by the country's results in terms of economic growth and public accounts. Economic growth in the fourth quarter was above the euro area average and the European Union; exports ended the year growing by around 10 %; business investment grew by 6 % compared to 2015; historical deficit by 2, 1 % and also a historical primary balance; employment to be increased and unemployment to decrease significantly. All this at the same time as pay cuts are returned, cuts in pensions, which eliminates the overtax of IRS and increases the national minimum wage. These are the results that the right, PSD and CDS, always dreamed of presenting to the country and that it never succeeded. In addition, PSD and CDS went on for a year to announce that this would not work out. Marco António Costa came to say that the Budget for 2016 was completely dead in its technical and financial credibility; Nuno Magalhães said that this Budget was based on a façade and not on reality; and Maria Luís Albuquerque said that it was arithmetically impossible the deficit below 3%, that the devil would certainly appear by the end of the year. Mr. Prime Minister, it was not only possible as it was possible without plans b and no amending budgets. The revisions by the OECD and the European Commission down in relation to the deficit, and up in relation to growth, confirm the recognition of the sustainability of the growth pattern of our economy. The devil didn't show up! There was an alternative. Mr. Prime Minister, did our economy break out or didn't it? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u78	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u79	Thank you very much, Mr President and Mr João Paulo Correia. The opposition the PSD makes is evident. For a whole year they simply invested in things going wrong, but, month after month, things, instead of going wrong, were doing better. And we arrived at the end of the year with something that, even having been possible, can not even the most optimistic admit as possible, which is to make it arithmetically possible what arithmetically was impossible. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u80	The CDS-PP is already looking aside.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u81	And it is absolutely extraordinary the arrogance with which, for a whole year, they behaved in the opposition: they maintained the same arrogance with which for four years they ruled the country, ignoring everything and all, dividing the country, breaking fundamental national consensus, breaking social dialogue, breaking the hope and expectations of the Portuguese, regarding the future. They still did not realize that, more important than the exceptional deficit we achieved in 2016, more important than job creation, than growth, than exports, than investment, it was possible to return to the country something that has an incalculable value, which is hope and trust in the future of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They began to caricature what was the economic model of the government and said: "The economic model of the government is the return to the past, a lot of public investment and a lot of debt! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” They came at the end of the year to criticize us because public investment had been smaller than what we wanted it to be,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u82	Minor? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u83	... but it was thanks to this effort that this year we could actually increase public investment by 20 %, mainly concentrated on works of proximity, which have to do with schools, which have to do with health centres, which have to do with the facilities of the security forces, which have to do with hospitals. These are the proximity investments we're making. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was a government which not only did not take advantage of the opportunities which Community regulations allowed for investment on roads, to ensure the connection of business areas to large infrastructures, last mile investments, as it did not allow, in the partnership agreement, that these investments were made and...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u84	We negotiated them.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u85	... did not include them in operational programmes. And we are now supporting, with exclusive investment from the State budget, the investments that are absolutely priority to be made so that we can value, especially in the North and Central regions, business investment areas developed by the authorities, where the companies that invested there were deprived of access to the core network of the IP1 and the IC1, and this complementarity we are doing at the expense of the State budget, because these gentlemen have allowed to leave it outside the Community Support Framework. [[It's nothing like that!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u86	How is that possible? Oh, my God! How is that possible? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] How can it be that they have reached the end of their government action, after two years to execute Portugal 2020, with 4 million euros allocated to companies for investment! Is that what you're talking about? We arrived at the end of last year with 370 million companies to be able to invest, this year we are already going to 400 million and we have as goal, at the end of this year, to allocate EUR 1000 million for companies to be able to invest, recreate jobs and produce wealth. How can they not have brought almost a hundred to any local authority during the two years in which they have had the implementation of Portugal 2020! Is that what you're talking about? And we had to make an extraordinary effort during 2016 to put Community funds in the field to effectively finance the economy. That is why, when we arrived at this stage and after having failed all of their forecasts—that the 2016 Budget was not going to happen in Brussels, that the Stability Plan was not going to happen in Brussels, that we would have to suffer the sanctions, that we would have to make Corrective Budgets, that the devil was coming there before the summer... after the summer... that the calamity was imminent — after they had failed all this, there was only one thing left: to whisper the private communications of a SMS (shortmessage service) to a minister with an old bank administrator. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is even the zero degree of policy to have to reach the bisbilhotice when nothing has to say to the country and to the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u87	Mrs. Susana Amador has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u88	Mr President, Prime Minister, a State which can claim democracy, representative and participating cannot devalue decentralization as an engine to assert itself as such, nor can it ignore the value and dimension that the local power in it should occupy. It was precisely because we wanted a more democratic state, Prime Minister, more representative, more developed and efficient, closer and more involved, that the Government and the Socialist Party set up decentralization in their Government Programme as the key element of State reform. The draft framework law adopted at the Council of Ministers on 16 February represents this reforming political will, this desire for democratization, that agenda for the future which is deeply part of the present agenda. Mr Prime Minister, politics is often the tension between « now » and « not yet ». We understand that this is the time of the 'already' in decentralization, because we need 'already' a more intelligent state, we need 'already' a more agile state, we need 'already' a state closer to people and then stronger. Only local authorities, the basic structures of the functioning of the State can contribute to this added value in determining areas for our country and for the development of the country, for its cohesion and for its competitiveness. We speak of areas such as education, health, culture, social action or housing, and the latter particularly lacks the attentive and human look of local power, because, as I said recently about the Social Neighborhood Rehabilitation Program that presented, are the authorities that are closer to the populations, who know the local reality better, who can better evaluate and implement housing policies and respond to the needs of their regions. Mr. Prime Minister, we would like you to reiterate and clarify in this House that this reform does not confuse decentralization with deresponsibility of the State. This government has, in fact, given unequivocal signs in defending public services, implemented clear and dense measures in strengthening the social state, social security, health, education and also in equal opportunities. I would like you to clarify here that we do not confuse decentralization with contractualization. This reform also has as its starting point the principles of the universality of public service and equal opportunities in access and, like arrival channels, the public nature of the policies and competences to be transferred and which will, in fact, have a definitive character. We must also reiterate that this reform is not done without a proper review of the Local Finance Act and of the financial, heritage and human resources appropriate for the full fulfilment of these new competences. Mr. Prime Minister, this is a deep, intense path that requires broad consensus, permanent dialogue with the ANMP ( National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ) and the ANAFRE ( National Association of Frequencies) with representative structures, which will also have an international monitoring of the OECD and which, on the part of all political parties, has here the recognition of the importance of local power and its valorization in terms of the democratic organization of the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u89	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u90	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President, with your tolerance. Freguesia and municipalities, with this new generation of local policies and competences, will certainly make a decisive contribution to valuing territories, attenuating asymmetries and promoting cohesion. Above all, Mr. Prime Minister, we understand that we will serve people better, who are the measure and the final end of human activity, and the policy must seek to achieve that same achievement.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u91	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u92	In conclusion, if the local power is the 'democracy security fuse', as the President of the Republic said, then we are in the right way and in the right time. And time never waits for us, is it not true, Prime Minister? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u93	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u94	Mr President, Mrs Susana Amador, I thank you for your comments. The reform of the state, for us, is not a PowerPoint slide, is a fundamental pillar of our National Reform Programme and has three fundamental axes, the first of which is what it has to do with simplification and administrative modernization. So we took off the Simplex, which had been put in the drawer by the previous government. Simplex is on the ground today, now has 62% of the 2016 measures implemented and is giving concrete results, from the driving licence to the new way of making the IRS declaration, as we will all, very briefly, verify, just to give two examples. The second fundamental axis has to do with the appreciation of our Public Administration. The replacement of wages and schedules was only a first step, but we must continue, and we are doing so with the programme to combat precariousness in the public sector, with the replacement of careers from 2018 onwards and with the creation of centres of competence, the first of which is already in March, which will be the centre of competence in legal matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u95	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u96	But there is an absolutely essential third axis, which I have mentioned and I will not tire of repeating, which is the cornerstone of state reform and which has to do with decentralization. Mrs Susana Amador, who for many years has been an author and, let me tell you, an excellent author, well knows how local authorities have a fundamental role to play in improving the efficiency of the state. If we have a deficit of 2, 1 % in 2016, I also owe it to the way the local authorities knew how to contain and manage their budgetary policy, against many fears that the authorities would be a financial irresponsibility center without the bureaucratic asphyxiation that the previous government created and that we began to dismantle in 2016. False! What they proved in 2016 was that they competed with the state and autonomous regions for the excellent budget result we had. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why we need to move from words to acts. When I hear the party leaders, in the nominations of candidates for autoarchs, or when we all make speeches about the 40 years of local democratic power, no one saves himself in praise to the results achieved by local democratic power. For it is time to convert these words into effective confidence, providing the autoarchs that will be elected next October with more competences and resources so that we can all have a more efficient state at the service of development. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u97	And it is necessary for the authorities to also participate in the design of what Portugal will be after-2020, because now the paralysis of Portugal 2020 is frozen, and we are focused on the execution of Portugal 2020, at cruise speed, it is necessary not to forget that in the next year we have to start discussing in Brussels post-2020 Portugal. For this, we need the authorities and that the authorities have an involvement at the level of the regional plans as they have not had so far. That is why, in addition to the reform that we have already tabled in the Assembly of the Republic, we also want to move forward with the democratization of the CCDRs ( coordination and regional development committees ), so that local authorities participate fully in the life of the CCDRs and are already fully involved in the programming of Portugal after-2020, so that many of the gaps that the authorships verify every day do not occur again after 2020,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u98	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u99	... because we want an open and participated planning by those who, being closer to people, are closer to the problems and closest to the territory, have better conditions of efficiency to implement regional development policies. Our trust...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u100	You must conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u101	... in decentralization is total and we believe that right there is the cornerstone of state reform. Once again, Mrs Deputy, I thank you for the questions you have raised.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u102	To put your questions, you have the floor of Mrs Assumption Cristas.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u103	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister has the habit of saying that 'the word given, the word honored'. I would like to ask you what you say about the quarterly review of the tax on petroleum products ( ISP ), which did not happen last week when the government had promised fiscal neutrality in this area. We were waiting for the revision of the ISP, so that the Portuguese were no longer penalized in gas oil and gasoline, but that, however, did not happen. What do you tell me about this? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u104	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u105	Mr President, Mrs Assumption Cristas, in 2016 we introduced a quarterly review measure, which was a transitional measure until the introduction of professional fuel. Given word, honest word, we did the quarterly review throughout the year 2016 and introduced the professional gas oil. In 2017, the State Budget, as you well know, because it participated in its preparation and vote, does not provide for a quarterly review, because it provides for the maintenance of professional gas oil. That is what we said, that is what we did — the word given, the word honored. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u106	You still have the floor to Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u107	Mr President, Prime Minister, we are already used to you enjoying distorting reality. [[PS protests.]] I never heard him say that fiscal neutrality was for professional gas oil, I heard him say that the justification for the increase in ISP, a year ago, was to ensure that the loss of tax revenue, which resulted in the state's low oil price, did not impact on public accounts and that Portuguese could be rested, because that would not affect them. That's not true! And so it is not true that, at the moment, to fill a deposit of 50 l of diesel pays more € 12 and gasoline pays more € 7. And it is not so true that in 2016 only in ISP and other fuel-related rates were raised more than EUR 1000 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u108	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u109	So fiscal neutrality didn't happen! It just didn't happen! But I was now aware that, in his view, there was no fiscal neutrality for the Portuguese. After all, was there or wasn't there? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u110	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u111	Mr President, I see that the honourable Member wants, by force, to be again the party leader of taxpayers, but, after her taxpayers' curriculum, we realize that the only taxpayers who were saved were even those who took the money to offshore and that statistics and information were to be disclosed for four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Madam Member, our fuel tax policy has been approved in the State budget and, as we have always said, what we believe is a priority in reducing employment. And so thanks to our fiscal policy, 90% of the Portuguese have stopped paying the overtax of IRS by 1 January this year. Are you worried? Yes, look, I should say the following: I agreed that it should be updated in the field of fuel tax policy. For whom, in particular, I am well aware that ephemera, Minister for the Environment, is very ill with the view he has on the tax policy on fuels. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u112	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u113	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I note that he does not respond, because he does not know or because he does not want or, yet, because he does not want to assume that he has failed again with his word on tax neutrality for taxpayers. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] And I have to tell you that it has failed, and it has failed a lot, because more than 1000 million euros have been raised in 2016 in gas, petrol, and other taxes, which means a large increase in indirect taxes. This is your tax policy: a great increase in indirect taxes, which are those who do not distinguish who receives more and who receives less, because everyone pays the same. There's your fight against inequality!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u114	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u115	Mr Prime Minister, on tax matters and on the fight against tax fraud and evasion, we are very calm. And you know why we're so quiet? Because we know very well what we did in the previous government, we know very well that we reinforced, in 1000 inspectors, the inspectors of the Tax Authority,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u116	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u117	...we know very well that we have extended the limitation period—...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u118	You're talking to the PSD bench!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u119	...the limitation period for tax debt, in the case of offshores, has increased from 4 to 12 years. Therefore, Prime Minister, it is in your hands to look for such an amount that the Tax Authority has not given, because we, in this House, want to know what has happened and why the Tax Authority has not given for it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u120	That's too much justification for anyone who's quiet!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u121	We think very well that the General Financial Inspection seeks to find out what has happened, because for us there is no problem in this matter. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u122	What I find extraordinary is that Mr. Prime Minister wants to come here, and finally, with his supporters in Parliament, to cast doubts on this matter—smiling, because, as we know, of course, the government, very conveniently, planted news to be able to make the number here—,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u123	That's too much justification for anyone who's quiet!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u124	... because Mr. Prime Minister does not have the same authority when it comes to defending the fight against fraud and tax evasion. And I'll explain why. We in our Government can be proud to have increased many agreements for automatic exchange of information, particularly with Switzerland, Luxembourg, Singapore and Hong Kong. Do you know what happened to your government?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u125	Listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u126	I don't know if you know, but it's good to remember: at the end of 2016, you took off the offshore list,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u127	Tell me why you closed your eyes to 10 billion? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u128	... three territories, in particular the islands of Man and Jersey and Uruguay. I'd like to know what Mr. Prime Minister, the Socialist Party and the Left Block say about that,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u129	The PCP too!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u130	... because only in 2016, for these territories were passed 600 million euros. What happens now? Why did they disappear from the list? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u131	Some of them went to the Avante party!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u132	But I have something else to say to you: while we worsened the tax for any transfer of and offshore, while we worsened the penalty for tax crimes, while we prevented the filing of a trial, in case of crime, even when taxpayers paid what was due,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u133	He's justifying a lot, he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u134	...what do you gentlemen do? Look, eight months ago, a set of proposals has been stopped in committee, and the CDS also has some, to deal with these offshore issues and I do not see any political will of the majority, which, in some matters, is so eager and so fast, but in this, nothing! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Therefore, unlike this left-wing majority, which uses unacceptable parliamentary resources in democracy to prevent the discovery of the whole truth, unlike this united-left majority, which oppresses the rights of opposition in Parliament — and this is serious, it is very serious — there is no fear of finding the truth, there is no fear of inquiring, there is no fear of hearing the answers. And I have to tell you that I believe that what is happening in Parliament is so gravely that I myself have asked Mr President of the Republic to hear what will happen on Friday to denounce what is happening here. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u135	I don't know what the honourable Member is going to report to Mr President of the Republic, but she knows that the door of my office is always open to all Members. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u136	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u137	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u138	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President, in fact on the proper conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u139	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u140	Mr President, with all honesty, I believe that good conduct of the work does not allow Mr President to take that kind of distance.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u141	What an attitude you're bending!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u142	The CDS is a political party that chooses who it speaks to and how it talks. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Moreover, we have asked Mr President of the Republic to attend because when the CDS and the PSD brought this issue to the Conference of Leaders, Mr President...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u143	He said it was a bad job!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u144	... said it was to render a bad service to democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u145	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u146	It was nothing with me, he still accused us of instrumentalizing the Conference of Leaders, we asked the President of the Republic for an audience, and Mr President interrupted the President of my party, when he was asking Mr Prime Minister, to say that he has the door open! Mr President, I am sorry to tell you, with all due kindness, but who in this Parliament has closed the door to the CDS and the PSD and to the democratic rules was Mr President. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u147	He did not know the Constitution of the Republic, he did not know the separation of powers between the Assembly of the Republic and the President of the Republic. [[CDS-PP protests.]] So I think your party's bench should not be unaware either. Continuing the debate, you have the floor to answer, Mr Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u148	Mr President, Mrs Cristas, indeed fiscal policy is a question of options. The choice which the honourable Member has defended was that the tax burden on companies and, in particular, workers should be increased. The policy that we define as priority was that of tax breakdown on wage income. So in 2016 we began to reduce the overtax, and we have now reduced the overtax to 90 % of the taxpayers, and we will soon eliminate the overtax by reducing it to 100 % of the taxpayers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u149	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u150	The honourable Member understood that it was necessary to increase the cost of meals for all those who had to eat meals outside the home. We believe that it was a priority to degrade the VAT (tax on value added) of the restoration so that there was less pressure on those who paid and, above all, on the micro, small and medium-sized enterprises of the restoration, and many of them closed the doors for four years, suffocated by their tax regime, but fortunately last year they were able to start breathing and, indeed, made a very positive contribution to job creation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member is very concerned about the taxation of petrol.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u151	That's it now!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u152	For, to me, I was very concerned that I would be able to reduce the special payment on account ( PEC) that companies are going to pay by next month, and that it was approved here with the abstention of the CDS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u153	There's got to be a lot of cans!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u154	... despite being a measure that the CDS had also defended. Madam Member, it is true that fiscal policy is a question of options, and what distinguishes us are those options. It will give me the freedom to understand that saving labour income is a correct option, that disaggravating direct taxes is a correct option, that creates conditions for companies to invest and create jobs is a correct option. So we have moved forward with the seed scheme for startups; and so we have changed the investment support tax system so that companies can invest. This is a correct fiscal policy; it is the fiscal policy that we want to follow; this is the fiscal policy that we must follow. Do you know what else, Your Honor? With this fiscal policy, we are stimulating investment, we are creating jobs and we are reducing the deficit. None of this happened to your fiscal policy, which was very good,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u155	Mr. Prime Minister! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u156	... very good, but it destroyed jobs, destroyed companies and, as for the deficit, never achieved the deficit that we achieved. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u157	You have the floor, Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u158	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, definitely does not want to be taken seriously. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Let me tell you that what Mr. Prime Minister here, in response, explains is extraordinary, because Mr. Prime Minister had promised a tax breakdown, he had not talked about tax escalation and now he says it is a matter of alternatives. It's austerity on the left, it's a fact! It's austerity made differently! You have to take this and you have to conclude that it's true, just as it is true that you're going to get money from the Portuguese pocket... [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] ... with taxes on fuels and other materials which have no income sensitivity.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u159	The tax burden has come down!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u160	Let me tell you, Mr Prime Minister, that, in relation to companies, I am delighted to know that you are now very concerned, but what I would like to have seen, Mr Prime Minister, was your bench to vote favourably on the CDS proposal, as regards PEC, a week earlier! And you voted against it! So when the proposal is from the Socialist Party, you think we have to vote in favour, when it is from the CDS, they vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u161	Look, I keep the text messages from Pedro Nuno Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u162	Therefore, he has no legitimacy at all to point his finger to the CDS in this matter and has lost a good opportunity, because he should not even have raised this matter. This, don't go any further! Let me tell you that I am still waiting for the answer about Jersey, the island of Man and Uruguay.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u163	Well, that's great!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u164	The three out of the offshore list. So they're not worried about offshores. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to hear your commitment here that you will give instructions, through Mr Finance Minister, to the Tributary Authority to investigate everything, to raise all the cases, as have been raised in our time in relation to the information which was known, and to obtain, of course, the regularization of any doubt that exists, with regard to these amounts. You know what? It has a lot of time, because, fortunately, and thanks to the previous government, it has up to 2024 to do so. So, start dealing with this matter now, it is the challenge I leave it to you. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u165	Mr. Prime Minister, I do not want to finish without asking you two more questions, and one of them is already going to be recurrent, but I suppose that now, after UTAO (Technical Budget Support Unit) has come to say that public debt rose in 2016 and remained 130 %, it will certainly be possible to explain to us, knowing what Portuguese public debt is in 2016. So, I ask: What is the debt it projects for 2017?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u166	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u167	Mr. President, I conclude now. I only ask for the same tolerance that has already been given. Mr. Prime Minister, with regard to investments that are or are not made, I would like to see how he reads the recent news — serious and worrying, because they generate a feeling of insecurity — in relation to the escapes from the Lisbon airport, the inmates of Caxias who leave and also assaults in a Lisbon mall.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u168	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u169	I will finish, Mr. President. This probably means that the fall of 10 % in public investment, plus captivating, does not only affect schools and hospitals, as we have been reporting for so long, also affect the area of security, which is, of course, more or more serious. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u170	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u171	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to clarify this in a small detail: in our regime of separation and interdependence of powers, the Prime Minister does not vote in the Assembly of the Republic. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u172	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u173	Moreover, another thing will be known: this Prime Minister, as a party leader, refrains from giving instructions to his Parliamentary Group, because he has complete confidence in it, that, with his autonomy, he can determine his own action and vote in this Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] As for the tax burden, Mrs Deputy, I simply recommend that you look at the statistics in order to be able to verify how the tax burden was lowered in 2016 compared to 2015. [[He didn't come down, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u174	And if the tax burden has decreased from 2015 onwards, it is because the relationship between taxation and the wealth produced is more favourable to the wealth produced than to the tax collected by the State. Finally, and with regard to debt, I have repeatedly had the opportunity to explain to the honourable Member — and I would remind you again — that, with the lowest deficit ever, we have been able to make the lowest ever contribution to the increase in debt. Secondly, I recall that net debt dropped by one percentage point, that gross debt in 2016 reached its maximum of...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u175	Ah! So, it's true, it's reached its peak!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u176	... and that in 2017 it will reach 128 % of GDP ( gross domestic product ) in accordance with the forecasts of the State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u177	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u178	I can even tell you that the gross debt today is already lower than it was on December 31, 2016. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u179	You now have the floor, to put questions to Mr Prime Minister, Mr... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u180	Mr. President, I'm sorry, but invoking a little credit I still have...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u181	Credit? Oh, my God! No, Mr. Prime Minister, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u182	The credit equivalent to the close to 1 minute discount, Mr President, is just not to leave Mrs Cristian Assumption in this distress. I just want to inform the Member of the following: these three territories have been removed from our list,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u183	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u184	... because they have become considered by the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) as fulfilling or exceptionally fulfilling territories. So they were removed from our list. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u185	You have the floor to ask questions, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u186	Mr President, Prime Minister, in the last 15-year debate we raised an issue on the publication of the portal defining the increase in family allowance. the following day, the door was published, implementing an important measure of the 2017 State Budget, covering more than 130 000 children. I resolved that there is the problem of publishing the portal, it was important to listen, for its part, to confirm that the payment will be made to the families already in the next month, with the retroactive correspondents, from the beginning of the year. This is a good way, Prime Minister. It is important that this and other positive measures adopted in the State Budget for 2017 advance in the realization of the resolution of problems and difficulties felt by workers and the people. It is necessary to move forward in combating precariousness in order to solve the problems affecting thousands of workers with precarious links in public administration and also in the private sector. It is necessary to move forward with reform without penalty to 40 years of discounts to value long-term contributions and to bring justice to thousands of workers who have started working too early. Don't you think, Prime Minister? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u187	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u188	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, on the first question, on the subscription, as I had said, was published and the retroactives were paid on 1 January. They were not paid in the benefit that was already being processed but in the benefit that will be processed next month, this will already include the payment of the retroactives to January. As I have already had the opportunity to clarify, as regards long-term contribution careers, the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security is completing the work and will present the proposal to ensure it. I know that this is a need not only for justice but also much claimed by a generation that began to work much earlier than it usually begins to work today and that, therefore, will have far longer careers than any other citizen will ever have again. It is a specific decision that requires a specific answer and this work is being completed and we will move forward, as we had, in fact, already assumed here the commitment to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u189	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, continues to use the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u190	Mr President, Prime Minister, with regard to commitments, the demolitions in Ria Formosa should lead us to insist on the question which we have often brought here: it is not acceptable to expel the local communities from the barrier islands of Ria Formosa, to deliver this valuable natural heritage to the great private interests. There is a resolution adopted recently by the Assembly of the Republic with the PS's favourable vote and there is the PS itself, which has commitments with the people prior to the 2015 legislative elections, and it is necessary to respect those populations and their right to live and work in Ria Formosa. Therefore, in addition to expressing solidarity to the people, we wanted to reaffirm our position today that this process of demolition must be definitely stopped. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u191	Mr President, there has been an error in the transmission of time to the electronic framework, but the counting of times will certainly be corrected. Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u192	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, as I recently had the opportunity to mention, we have been very closely following this situation, and I personally also had the opportunity to speak with the representative of the people, as well as to have spoken several times with Mr President of the House of Olhão. What was planned by the Coastal Police Society Ria Formosa and that led, in fact, the Police Society to notify, without knowledge of the government, a set of residents about the demolitions was reviewed. The Minister of the Environment has made a commitment, and has fulfilled, to make a case-by-case assessment. This commitment was also honored, in such a way that the then president of the Polis Society submitted his resignation, because he considered himself unauthorized and because the planned programme would not be carried out. First point we want to make clear: any house that is being demolished will not be replaced by a new one, whether in a large, small, medium or micro real estate enterprise. There is no real estate business to do there, which is to ensure respect for a set of rules. We defined three types of rules that were of greatest importance: firstly, only to demolish dwellings that were in the public domain; secondly, only to demolish dwellings that were in the risk zone, i.e. in which the people's own lives were concerned, and thirdly, that they were not first houses or establishments of fishermen and farmers. The 60 houses that have been identified, among the many hundreds that are in all those islands, are the only ones where this intervention will be. We must manage this process taking into account the different interests that it is important to preserve: the right to housing people, the right to the activity that people have and the traditional practices in the river, but also the protection of environmental public goods and the protection and security of people. It is in this balance of these different interests that we have sought to act. If there is a situation among these 60 houses where these criteria have not been met, then I would like it to be identified and we will act on that. But what we have combined and we have agreed that it would be respected is what we are respecting. If there was any mistake between that universe of the 60 houses, I would be grateful that we would be identified specifically to be able to verify and, if necessary, correct. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u193	You have the floor, Mr Jerome de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u194	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would appeal to you to make a re-evaluation by safeguarding this fundamental right that people have to live and work in the Formosa River. Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to mention another issue that has already happened here. It has a great political significance that PSD and CDS did not, in this debate, account to the Portuguese for the 10 billion euro scandal that they left the country between 2011 and 2014 for offshores without any control of the previous government. We have already heard Mr. Prime Minister of the time say that he did not know, we have heard the Secretary of State say that he did not know and heard sources of the Tax Authority saying that it might have been a computer error. Mr. Prime Minister, it is appropriate to say that the morals of history, in essence, will be that "sunny guilt" or, at the very least, that the guilt was the employee who damaged the computer during the cleaning operation. [[PCP applause.]] Indeed, the PSD and CDS were impeding with the workers, the unemployed, the poor, the small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, the farmers. All those who considered to be weaker controlled goods and incomes, demanded obligations, applied fines without appeal or aggravating. The bank, the rich, the powerful closed their eyes and let them take 10 billion euros out of this country, without trying to see if there were taxes to pay. We confirm what we have so often said about PSD and CDS: they are strong with the weak and weak with the strong. [[PCP applause.]] Finally, Mr Prime Minister, the social communication has agreed once again to the scandal of the price of gas. As you know, thousands of families, generally the poorest, living in areas where natural gas has not arrived, still have the gas bottle at home to cook or heat up, and pay twice as much as the natural gas user. Mr. Prime Minister, the scandal is old. For years, the CFP has been complaining and proposing measures. The previous government, PSD / CDS, once again verified that there was a scandal in 2014. The former National Fuel Market Entity could prove it again, but then nothing! Once again, you didn't want to face the oil. In 2016, during the debate of the State Budget for this year, the CFP advanced with a proposal that did not pay back. In May 2016, the Secretary of State for Energy placed the High Competition Authority to assess the problem. All right. Only we are two months from May 2017 and the Competition Authority: zero! in the 2017 budget debate, on a proposal from the CFP, Article 175 was approved there. the, in which, in addition to the change of regulator, it is decided that the measures necessary to reduce the price of bottle gas are adopted, adapting its regime to the needs of consumers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u195	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u196	Mr Prime Minister, when are Portuguese families going to have stock gas at least at Spanish prices, today at prices less than 50 % of those practiced in Portugal? In Spain, you pay €12 per bottle; in our country, you pay €22, at least, without having regions that have a worse situation. And the difference cannot be justified by the taxes, by the ISP (tax on petroleum products) which is equal, by the VAT (tax on value added) with two more percentage points. Now, Prime Minister, what is the situation of other measures proposed by the CFP and adopted in the State budget? I am talking in particular about support for agricultural gas oil and the discount on the price of gasoline for small craft and coastal fishing. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u197	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u198	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, on the issue of stock gas, in fact only 25% of the population is served by natural gas and is mainly in large urban centres. The transfer of regulatory skills to ERSE (Energy Services Regulatory Entity) generates a very positive expectation for us. In fact, it was ERSE and its monitoring, in particular over the past year, that there had been a very significant reduction in the cost of natural gas and also the lowest ever increase in the cost of electricity throughout this year. at the beginning of 2016, we had the most expensive natural gas for families and the second most expensive for companies in Europe. With the intervention of ERSE last year, there was a reduction of 18 % in the price for families and a reduction of between 22 % and 28 % for companies. This year, the increase in electricity was the lowest ever and, for the first time, it was also below inflation. This means that we expect ERSE to correct the situation in relation to the supply gas, but this does not, of course, exempt the Competition Authority from having to complete its work to verify whether there is any distortion of competition affecting this situation. Finally, and on the issue of offshores, it is indeed absolutely scandalous that a government that did not hesitate and did not accept, in the Assembly of the Republic, to end the plight of the household for any family debt, had the inability to verify what happened to EUR 10 billion who fled the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u199	And what did the current government do? Oh, my God! That is not a democratic way of doing politics, Prime Minister! It's not! On the contrary, it is a very low way of doing politics!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u200	It was a government that, relatively...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u201	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u202	... overall taxpayers, it was implacable, going to review days or weeks of delay in the payment of the car tax of 2012 and 2013, having fined everything and all,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u203	Are you making an accusation?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u204	... who has been fined for months and years and working who did not pay a motorway toll, and who had this tranquillity for EUR 10 billion, as if he did not see the forest in front of him. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u205	And when did you gentlemen see the forest? Where have you been for a year and a half? Oh, my God! Are you making insinuations? That's not a proper way to make politics, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u206	But it is very enlightening, Mr!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u207	That's not a proper way to do politics!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u208	Put it down! You're so nervous!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u209	Who doesn't feel like he's not a good man's son! That is a very low way of doing politics!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u210	He's very angry because the devil didn't come! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u211	You have the floor by the Green Parliamentary Group, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia. [[Continued PSD protests.]] Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, as soon as possible, may begin her intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u212	Mr President, that is exactly why I am waiting. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In view of what has already been said in this debate, I do not think that the CDS-PP considers that it is not worth talking to the President of the Assembly of the Republic and then opts to speak to the President of the Republic on the subject of cash and SMS in particular.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u213	It is by restricting the rights of the opposition!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u214	This is when Mr President of the Republic has already publicly stated that the General Deposit Box and SMS subject matter itself, in particular, is a closed matter. End point, paragraph!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u215	That's what I wanted them to do! That's all I needed!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u216	Hope must be great on the part of the CDS! On the issue of the EUR 10 billion that have escaped to offshore without control of the Tax Authority, I think it is worth saying that we are not talking about a small amount, we are talking about an alarm, Prime Minister. We're talking about a higher amount than the annual debt interest,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u217	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u218	...of a much higher amount than the health budget or education budget. Well, the question is how this escapes the country. How is the tax revenue that could escape the country from here? Oh, my God! Mr. Prime Minister, the Greens also consider that there are various responsibilities to be established here, including political responsibilities that cannot be resolved. Basically, when this happens between 2011 and 2014, when, as already mentioned here, and very well, the Portuguese were completely massacred by gross increases in taxes and wage cuts and pensions that did not have any justification possible!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u219	It's the offshore Paulo Nuncio! [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u220	So this has, in fact, to be clarified. But, Prime Minister, there is something else that needs to be clarified, which is related to the matter of the agreement between Portugal and Spain concerning Almaraz. If the Prime Minister comes to the foot of 'The Greens' and says that 'we are suspending the complaint that has been made to Brussels because we have reached an agreement with Spain to make a technical reassessment of the project for the construction of a nuclear waste warehouse which aims to extend the operation of the Nuclear Central of Almaraz and to make it also a public consultation period so that the Portuguese can be heard in relation to a project that has indeed cross-border effects', so far, nothing scandalous, Mr. Prime Minister, all seems normal to me. The problem, Prime Minister, is that we go to the government's website, we find Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs' statements, Mr. Minister for the Environment's statements and, suddenly, we are faced with this: this agreement, this two-month period, serves to determine whether the cross-border effects of construction exist and, if they exist, how they will be minimized. Mr Prime Minister, does this mean that Spain does not revoke the decision it has taken to ensure that the effects are now reassessed? Does that mean at least you don't suspend the decision you made?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u221	You've outlived your time, Your Honor. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u222	I will finish, Mr. President. Just suspending the construction for two months? This is not enough, Mr Prime Minister, because otherwise we are making a public consultation and a technical reassessment of the facade and that is to play with the Portuguese. We are of good faith wanting to believe that the government is also good-faith in this process, but, for that to happen, there is a decision that Spain has taken that has to be repealed,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u223	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u224	... for the process to be resumed and a new decision is taken, in particular in favour of the Portuguese, since the cross-border effects obviously exist. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u225	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u226	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia, will allow me to focus on the issue of Almaraz. First of all, this is an interim agreement which resulted from a very positive initiative by Mr President of the European Commission, with a view to also seeking to do what should have been done earlier: firstly, to make all the information available; secondly, to allow a joint visit to the site, with a view to verifying all the technical conditions that are planned for the project and that this information should be provided not only to Portugal but also to the European Commission, so that it will be a tripartite evaluation. The aim of this assessment is, of course, to verify what Portugal has the legitimacy to demand and what are the risks and impacts on the Portuguese territory. This agreement basically aims to ensure what Spain should have done before it announced a decision on this matter. The honourable Member asks me, then, why have they not only suspended the complaint when Spain only undertakes to take no action which is considered irreversible or which prejudices the assessment by Portugal at the moment? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Because the process is in accordance with Article 259. the, which Portugal has invoked, does not allow suspensions and foresees perennial deadlines that would have to be met, but allows that, once the complaint is withdrawn, it can be re-presented. That is why it is stated that Portugal, in view of this mid-term agreement, will now participate in the visit — indeed, scheduled for next Monday, 27 — of the Portuguese, Spanish and European Commission authorities, and expects all the information to be provided. Spain has obliged itself to provide other data or to develop other measures which are now considered necessary for a thorough recovery of the impact risks on the national territory and Portugal has reserved the right to re-submit the complaint if, in this process in which we enter good faith, we first find that Spain does not comply with what is now expressly obliged to comply with and, secondly, that of the results achieved, Spain does not assume the obligations it actually has to take to avoid these impacts on the national territory. Having checked these situations, which I hope will not be verified, Portugal will resubmit the complaint.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u227	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u228	Thank you very much, Mr President. This is something on which we will maintain the firmness we have had, but maintaining it at the level of political, diplomatic and institutional dialogue, which I find absolutely essential not to be confronted with irreversible situations and which constitute a threat to Portugal. As a result, today we are better than we were before this agreement, because before it Spain was not obliged to give us information.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u229	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u230	Even last week, he did not authorize the visit of the Order of Engineers, the European Commission was not involved and we only had the complaint available through the judicial procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u231	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u232	Mr President, let me just conclude, please. Today, we do not lose the judicial route, because it will always remain open, if necessary use it, but we have gained the availability of Spain, which we have not had so far, and we have succeeded in involving the European Commission, obviously strengthening the capacity of intervention on a decision and on a construction that exists in a foreign state. That is why I believe that this interim agreement has been a good step and I hope that it will enable us to achieve a good result.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u233	Mr. Prime Minister, you have far exceeded the time you had.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u234	But the agreement is to intercalate, drawing up a process in which we will participate in good faith, where we know that the European Commission participates in good faith, where we believe that Spain participates in good faith...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u235	I ask you to conclude. I've asked you three times, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u236	...and where we hope there will be a good result in which we can all recognize each other. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u237	Mr André Silva of the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u238	Mr President, Prime Minister, in June 2016, was unanimously adopted in the Assembly of the Republic, a law with enormous political significance that expresses the general feeling of the Portuguese population, the law prohibiting the slaughter of pets as a form of population control. This law lacks regulation by the government, which should have happened until 21 December and did not happen. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask you, then, the following question: when is the regulation of this law?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u239	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u240	Mr President, honourable Member, this is a cause that I share with the NAP. Indeed, we have the rules of late law, but the information I have from the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Development is that in March this regulation will be completed and the delay of these two months will end. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u241	Please, Mr. André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u242	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, thank you very much. March will certainly be a good month, not only by the regulation of this law but also by the publication of the National Biological Agriculture Strategy. Mr. Prime Minister, I would also like to bring you a subject of extreme relevance, a public health problem: the strong on medication of children with Ritaline, which supposedly strengthens the concentration of those who have perturbation due to hyperactivity and attention deficit. There are several entities that have already alerted themselves to the risk of being on medication for children and young people with drugs for whom long-term effects are unknown. This medicine has doubled its sales in recent years and is taken by younger children. Almost 30 % of the users of this medicine are children under 9 years of age. What should be an exception has become customary and the prescription of a psychopharmaceutical, which should be a second-line resource, is today trivialized. Behaviors that were always natural and their consequences in Portuguese society were underestimated. Mr. Prime Minister, are you aware that there are classes in which more than 80% of students take Ritaline to maintain or increase their competitive performance in terms of school grades?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u243	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u244	Mr President, I shall finish by asking a question. Mr. Prime Minister, we know that over two years ago a working group was set up within the Directorate-General for Health for this issue. Question : When will a report be provided with concrete conclusions and what answers does the Government have for this reality? [[Congratulations from BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u245	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u246	Mr President, Mr President, first of all, this active substance is subject to very limited and well-defined therapeutic indications and is subject to medical prescription, that is, only doctors can prescribe its use. However, in view of the situation of a certain public alarm that exists about the risk of misuse of this substance, the National Director of the Mental Health Program ordered the establishment of a working group, with experts, with a view to conducting the analysis of the profile of the prescription and to verify whether or not they confirm their misuse. The Ministry of Health is, in fact, establishing with the Ministry of Education a joint assessment of the results of these studies, with a view to a joint action to, if necessary, take public health measures. But I insist: the prescription of this medicine, which is licensed with strong restrictions on its use, is exclusively medical competence. Therefore, there can only be public intervention if it is effectively verified that there is a deviation in what is the good medical practice that constitutes an effective risk to the health of children, with effective abuse of the use of this active substance. This is what is being done at this time, in fact in a work articulated between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Education. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u247	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of this debate. Before the end of the plenary session, I ask Mrs Emília Santos to announce the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u248	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, draft resolutions Nos 674 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — by abolishing tolls on the Way of the Child ( PCP ), 675 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends the strengthening of the means of operation of the National Centre for nautical and Subaquatic Archaeology ( PCP ) and 677 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the unemployment allowance should not be less than the IAS ( PS ) as well as the projects of lein. 416 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establishs mechanisms for protection of the tiled heritage by making the tenth-third amendment to the Urbanization and Building Legal Regime ( PS ) and 417 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Sixth amendment to Law No 108 / 91 of 17 August, Law of the Economic and Social Council, in order to include in plenary two representatives of the National Council for Youth ( CDS-PP ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-22.u249	Mrs. Members, the next plenary session will take place tomorrow, 23 February, at 3 p.m., with the debate of Question No 8 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — State reform and access to public services ( PSD ). The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 3 minutes.]]
