ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, I declare open the session. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries. Before we start the agenda, I'll give Mr. Duarte Pacheco the floor to report on the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u2	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, the following initiatives: projects of lein.o 613 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Reimposes the right of public servants to compensation for damages resulting from occupational accidents and diseases ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 614 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 78 / 2017 of 17 August establishing a simplified cadastral information system and repealing Law No 152 / 2015 from 14 September ( PSD ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 615 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter to Law No 23 / 2007 of 4 July approving the legal regime for the entry, stay, departure and removal of foreigners from the national territory ( PSD ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 616 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Sixth amendment to Law No 23 / 2007 of 4 July approving the legal regime for the entry, stay, departure and removal of foreigners from the national territory ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 617 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 78 / 2017 of 17 August establishing a simplified cadastral information system and repealing Law No 152 / 2015 from 14 September ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, and 618 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establish procedures and objectives for the removal of products containing asbestos fibres still present in buildings, facilities and private forum equipment, including private companies and private housing(PAN) ; and draft resolutions Nos 1063 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the elimination of tolls on the Child's Way and the correction of horizontal signaling in some requalified sections of EN125 between Olhão and Vila do Bispo ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1064 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government give absolute priority to the conclusion of the CI6, as well as to the construction of the IC7 and IC37 ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1065 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement measures in the area of pediatric oncology, promoting greater support and protection for minors with cancer and their caregivers ( CDS-PP ), which is down to 9. the Commission, 1066 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government update the list of materials containing asbestos in the buildings, installations and equipment where public services are provided and the consequent removal, packaging and disposal of all waste (PAN) and 1067 / XIII ( 3 ) are provided. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government submit a report on the implementation of the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 170 / 2016 of 4 August and prepare a study aimed at creating incentives for the removal of asbestos in private installations for commercial, industrial or storage purposes ( PSD ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u3	Thank you, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. Even before we start today's agenda, I would just like to tell you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the elections took place on Sunday, 1 October, which is always a great day for democracy, with thousands of candidates for municipal chambers, municipal assemblies and Freguesian assemblies. This year the elections recorded an increase in electoral participation, with almost 200 000 voters voting more than in 2013. 2074 citizens were elected to the municipal chambers, 6461 to the municipal assemblies and 27 000 to the parish assemblies. It is, in fact, an impressive movement of citizenship that we cannot fail to value. I would like to welcome here, on behalf of the Assembly of the Republic, all the electors and all those who have participated in these elections for the example they have given to our people. I would also like to wish all the autocrats who will enter into office the greatest successes for a mandate that is quite challenging for the future of local democratic power. In particular to the Members of the Assembly of the Republic, who will, through their election, leave Parliament, at the same time leaving my thanks and congratulations. [[PPS, BE, PCP, Os Verdes and PSD Members applauded.]] Let us therefore enter the agenda whose first point consists of the joint discussion of the projects of lein. 579 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Elimination of the risk of asbestos in buildings, installations and business equipment ( The Greens) and 618 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establish procedures and objectives for the removal of products containing asbestos fibers still present in buildings, facilities and private forum equipment, including private companies and private housing (PAN), in general, and draft resolutions Nos 1066 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government update the list of materials containing asbestos in the buildings, installations and equipment where public services are provided and the consequent removal, packaging and disposal of all waste (PAN) and 1067 / XIII ( 3 ) are provided. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government submit a report on the implementation of the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 170 / 2016 of 4 August and prepare a study aimed at creating incentives for the removal of asbestos in private installations for commercial, industrial or storage purposes ( PSD ). To present Bill No. 579 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As is public knowledge, The Greens have repeatedly placed the matter of asbestos on the parliamentary agenda, particularly in public buildings. We tabled a proposal, which resulted in Law No 2 / 2011 of 9 February, which determined that the Government should undertake a survey of public buildings with asbestos and, consequently, create solutions for their monitoring and removal, thus safeguarding the public health of all those working in these public buildings. It is also public knowledge that in 2005 the marketing and use of asbestos in the building was completely prohibited. It appears that everything that has been built back can, in fact, contain this highly cancerous substance and that constitutes a real danger to public health. The Greens have worked hard on this work of lifting and corrective actions here, in the Assembly of the Republic, with regard to public buildings, and the Government, in particular the Ministry of the Environment, ensuring that in 2020 the removal of asbestos will be completed in the buildings to which it has been said, what the Greens consider is that we are in time to take another significant step in the elimination or eradication of asbestos in our society, which is precisely related to the buildings, installations and equipment of private companies. in this sense, The Greens consider that health does not have a value in the public sector and another in the private sector; hence they consider that this step must be taken quickly. The Greens believe that the Working Conditions Authority ( ACT ) should, together with workers'organisations and employers'representative organisations, promote this lifting of business buildings that contain asbestos and that the Government, from this survey, also have a hand, so let us say in support, in the direction of companies to apply for Community funds so that this eradication can be effectively achieved. We believe that, through this proposal, the Greens continue to make a real contribution to the safeguarding of public health and to a serious and effective fight against asbestos in our society, to the extent that this substance is indeed a serious danger to public health. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u5	To present Bill No. 618 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) and draft resolution No 1066 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Massively used in construction until the end of the 1990s, asbestos is a carcinogen with severe health consequences, which may arise several years or decades after exposure. The causal relationship between exposure to asbestos and lung cancer is fully based, demonstrating that its frequency is 10 times higher in workers exposed for 20 years, or more, than in the general population. In 2005 the use and marketing of asbestos and products containing this fibre was expressly prohibited and in 2011 its use in the construction or requalification of buildings, facilities and public equipment was prohibited and the requirement to lift them was imposed. On the one hand, the legal premises patented in the 2011 diploma were not met. in this sense, the NAP presents a draft resolution that aims to comply with the law, implementing the updating of the lists of materials containing asbestos in the buildings, facilities and equipment where public services are provided and in the consequent removal, packaging and disposal of all these hazardous materials. On the other hand, we stress that there is no information on the number of private homes and private companies where there are asbestos fibres, nor any legal diploma on this matter. As such, we also present a bill in which we propose a plan of action similar to what exists in relation to public buildings, facilities and equipment, bringing up the presence of asbestos in private buildings, covering private companies and private housing, also advancing with its removal at a later stage. In addition, we propose that, in the purchase and sale and lease contracts, it be compulsory for private housing owners to provide information to all potential buyers or tenants of the existence of asbestos and the forecast of the time limit for the removal of such materials. In addition, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are facing a serious case of public health, proven by the relationship between exposure to asbestos and the emergence of cancer diseases in the respiratory forum. We cannot continue to neglect this situation. It is necessary to conclude the process of removal of asbestos in public buildings quickly, which should have been completed several years ago. We also need to be more demanding and accountable by extending this obligation to private buildings, effectively protecting the health and life of all.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u7	To present draft resolution No 1067 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), Mr Bruno Coimbra has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The concern about the danger of asbestos for public health is something that has already come a long way and has already been the target of various initiatives by some parliamentary groups. The PSD also had a number of initiatives aimed, in a conscious manner, at technically well-founded and without alarms, to eliminate the problem of exposure to asbestos-containing materials, with a special incidence in cases where removal is urgent because the cool condition of asbestos occurs, where the release of particles of this fiber occurs. During the governance of the PSD and CDS there were several actions at the level of survey and listing of public buildings and equipment with materials containing asbestos and several corrective actions were carried out, with special impact on the facilities linked to the Ministry of Education and Science. More recently, already in this Parliament, the Assembly of the Republic – urged by PSD projects and the Left Block – approved Resolution No 170 / 2016 of 4 August, recommending the continuation and completion of the processes of identification and removal of asbestos in structures where public services are provided. Today, the Greens Parliamentary Group brings us a concern: the presence of asbestos in private buildings and equipment and the risk that this also represents for people. We accompany the concern, although we have some reservations about the proposed procedure, better defined in the NAP project. in this context, we recommend that the Government identify private buildings and equipment, trade, industry or storage, which contain asbestos in the materials of its construction and also the preparation of a study aimed at creating incentives of a fiscal or parafiscal nature for the removal of these materials. However, if these procedures have to be initiated in private as soon as possible, procedures are far from being completed in the public. In fact, it was the Minister of the Environment himself who stated that the expectation is that only by 2020 will the removal of asbestos present in public buildings be completed, so it is important to monitor this situation and ensure its full implementation. thus, the PSD Parliamentary Group also recommends that the Government present to the Assembly of the Republic, within 90 days, a detailed report on the implementation of each of the recommendations contained in the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 170 / 2016, which, I recall, focuses on five fundamental actions: the process of identification of asbestos in public premises; the prioritization and timing of actions for the prevention and control of risks to public health and the environment, resulting from the use of materials containing asbestos; the financial estimate of the investment to be carried out to carry out these actions; the agreed plan with the autarchies to identify equipment under their raised asbestos containing materials; and the comprehensive removal of asbestos in all public equipment. Only then, with concrete data on progress, the Assembly of the Republic can properly follow up on the resolution of this problem. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u9	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor, who, first of all, because it is the first time she is going to intervene in the plenary, compliance.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u10	Mr President, I would also like to congratulate you on this first speech. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Commission Directive 1999 / 77 / EC prohibits the use of asbestos in all Member States since 1 January 2005. In Portugal, this Directive was transposed only in February 2011, six years later. The Left Block has always fought for the removal of this material, identified as cancer, to be speedy and, already in 2016, five years after this legislation has been published and four years after the deadline for implementation, the Left Block launched a campaign, together with Quercus and the Workers' Union in Public Functions, so that this identification and removal will not take place any longer. This campaign went through the presentation of a draft resolution in this Chamber, which was unanimously approved and requested the conclusion of the identification and removal of asbestos in public buildings, as defined in 2011. We see the removal of asbestos throughout the building in Portugal as a priority and urgency. Given that many of these constructions are of the second half of the 20th century, a large part will already be at the threshold of its use, presenting a real danger to the health of users and workers who are thus exposed to these carcinogen fibers. Now, according to Quercus, there are at least 6000 buildings in Portugal that contain asbestos and several requests were received for information on the presence of asbestos in private buildings. As we have been saying systematically, this is a case of public health and urgent environmental quality. The identification and removal of this material throughout the building in Portugal must be a political priority, so a national strategic plan for asbestos, as it defends Quercus, seems to us - a good and cross-sectional strategy to eliminate this material from buildings at once, as well as to protect the workers and workers who were exposed to it, particularly in the companies that produced asbestos and where death was already identified directly related to the handling of this material - we refer to Lusalite, Novinco and Cimimanto. The removal of danger and protection of persons should be guaranteed in all situations. The mapping of public buildings and the removal was finally budgeted in the State Budget for 2016, and this is a need identified since 1999. Twenty years of exposure identified to such a dangerous material for public health represents many years of inaction of the Portuguese State, which cannot be considered admissible. There is now a lack of response for private buildings and for people who have been exposed over the years to this material. We understand that the political response and the generalization and activation of the asbestos removal programme throughout the national territory is urgent. These projects are thus a good start, but measures must be further developed and implemented. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u11	Mrs Deputies, it was a brilliant premiere, respecting the time she had, in addition to the interest of the content of the intervention, of course. For an intervention, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u12	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. Today there are four diplomas, all of which ultimately have the same objective: identification and removal of asbestos in buildings, installations and equipment in companies. For this reason, on the question of asbestos in buildings, it is worth remembering that since the current government constituted a working group to ascertain the existence of this material in public buildings, more than 2660 structures have been signalled. This result showed that the demands carried out by the previous Government had been insufficient, since the list drawn up between 2011 and 2015 only 339 structures. The 2357 buildings identified as as containing asbestos were evaluated in full and not only presumed. in this sense, it was established a priority of the structures to be intervention, having already resolved close to 200, of the approximately 400 that were marked as urgent and of which the school buildings stand out. This was a decisive step towards the removal of asbestos-containing materials in buildings where public services are provided, supported by the Council of Ministers Resolution of 8 June, establishing the rules for the removal of such materials by 2020. For the implementation of these interventions, the Government has ensured that the National Reform Plan contains more than EUR 300 million, to be financed by the European Investment Bank and the Council of Europe Development Bank, to eradicate the presence of asbestos in public buildings serving the public. Eradicating by 2020 the asbestos of public buildings where services are provided was the commitment that the Government has made and that it is fulfilling. The proposals which the various parties present today and which extend to all buildings where work is carried out also alert us to the need to proceed with the lifting of the business buildings where these materials are present. We agree that the Government will establish criteria for companies to carry out this assessment in their structures, which will present a project with its cost-definition and allow applications to be made to Community funds within the 2030 Community framework for their removal. We also believe that the Government will be available to link existing legislation with administrative simplification and to specify the responsibility for the implementation of corrective measures in cases where, for example, several companies exist in the same building, thus contributing to the respect and value of the health of all workers. The Socialist Party argues that the requirement for public buildings should be extended to the private, given that the importance of health is equal to all. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u13	Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The legislative initiatives under discussion today deal with a very important issue, not to say worrying, that we have always followed closely and that has often been discussed in the Assembly of the Republic. Yet very recently resolutions were adopted by this Parliament, which had on its basis draft resolutions also submitted by the CDS, recommending to the Government the urgent realization of rehabilitation and requalification works at the Fernão Mendes Pinto High School, in Almada, and at EB 2, 3 El-Rei D. Manuel I, of Alcochete, and part of these works involved in the removal of all fibrosis plates with asbestos from those installations. We all know that asbestos has been used for many years. however, from the 60s, studies were published that directly related exposure to asbestos and contact with it to lung cancer. And, obviously, as these studies were being launched this suspicion that existed was confirmed, so from that time on the authorities should have begun to worry not only about the use but also about the removal of asbestos, where it already existed. In Portugal, for the first time, on this matter in 1987, several initiatives were followed, as is the case with Decree-Law No 101 / 2005 of 23 June, Decree-Law No 46 / 2008 of 12 March, Law No 2 / 2011 of 9 February, which was unanimously approved by this Chamber, and more recently of Portaria No 40 / 2014 of 17 February, responding to an obligation stipulated in Decree-Law No 46 / 2008 of 12 March. in this sense, the former Government has developed several actions at the level of the survey and listing of public buildings with asbestos and has carried out several corrective actions. in this legislature, the CDS has already repeatedly questioned the current Minister of the Environment on the development and implementation of these works and, although it has not yet obtained very concrete answers, in particular on the timing of the work for the removal of asbestos from all public buildings, we had the promise of the Minister of the Environment that these works would be completed by 2020. It seems to us, quite frankly, little to the extent of this problem, because there is no doubt about the dangers to public health arising from exposure to this material. however, and in view of everything I have just mentioned, the CDS will enable all the initiatives under discussion today because, despite presenting different measures, they aim to solve a problem that has been going on for too long, as quickly as possible. This is our concern and therefore everything that constitutes a solution, as quickly as possible, will have the support of the CDS. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u15	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is extremely important for public health to discuss today. It is known that asbestos, due to its durability and resistance, was used massively in building materials in the second half of the 20th century, still being maintained in many public and private buildings today. It is, however, unacceptable the danger that asbestos poses to the health and well-being of the people who are exposed to it, as well as to the environment. It is generally known that the constant inhalation of microscopic particles of this natural fiber, which is highly potent in the air, is evidenced by the extensive studies, including lung cancer, as well as other diseases. Given that the identification of public facilities containing asbestos materials, which has already begun the process of their removal, is already being made in compliance with what is enshrined in the law, and that there is already a commitment that this material will be removed in full by 2020, the projects of the Ecological Party « The Greens » and the NAP, in the defence of workers'rights and their non-discrimination in private enterprises, notably in micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, propose that measures be taken also to eliminate the risk of asbestos by safeguarding the health and safety conditions of these workers. The NAP focuses on the identification and removal of asbestos-containing products in private dwellings, given the danger of the presence of this natural fiber in dwellings, and in many of them has already been overcome the useful life of asbestos, being in poor state of conservation, which greatly increases its degree of danger. It is proposed to prohibit the use of asbestos materials in the re-qualification of buildings and the identification of all of them, with the collaboration of the Working Conditions Authority, workers' organisations and employers' associations, and to take corrective action where necessary, in accordance with the safety rules. In addition, the NAP and the PSD recommend that the list of materials containing asbestos be updated or completed in the buildings and facilities where public services are provided and that corrective measures be taken and the removal of this material, where necessary, in addition to the identification of buildings, installations and private carousel equipment in order to remove asbestos from those facilities. We reaffirm that for the CFP, public health and safety, the well-being of populations and workers, as well as the environment, are a constant concern. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u17	For a second intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to point out, of course, that it is very positive that all parliamentary groups have expressed concern and will be able to act as Parliament so that private company buildings can also be considered regarding the need to raise and identify those containing asbestos to take corrective action. The question was raised here about the methodology to be used for this purpose. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what The Greens are presenting in their draft is a proposal that we would very much like to see later discussed with the contribution of all parliamentary groups, in the field of expertise, and for us there is an issue that is even inevitable. It is that the companies themselves can only be involved, but also the Labour Conditions Authority cannot be involved, as it has been, in relation to public buildings. The workers' organisations and the representative organisations of the business entities I believe that they can also be involved, until there is no doubt about the issue of surveying, the identification of buildings, as has been put at a given time for public buildings. And the government itself must not be left out on this issue either.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u19	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u20	I will finish, Mr. President. So, with regard to the methodology in particular, we can of course specify it and work it best, in the specialty, but what matters, in fact, is to take this step together. [[Congrats from the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u21	With no further inscriptions, the joint discussion of the projects of lein.os 579 / XIII ( 2 ) is concluded. a ) ( The Greens) and 618 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), in general, and draft resolutions 1066 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( PAN) and 1067 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) ( PSD ). We will proceed to the review of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 155/ XIII — The first amendment, by Parliamentary assessment, to Decree-Law No 86 - D / 2016 of 30 December, which accords the municipality of Lisbon the full assumption of the legal powers and powers with regard to the public service of collective passenger surface transport in the city of Lisbon, transfers the contractual position held by the State in the Public Service Concession Agreement concluded with Caris, and transmits all the representative shares of the social capital of Caris do Estado to the municipality of Lisbon. Mr Heitor Sousa, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u22	Mr President, Mr Heitor Sousa is prepared to intervene but, as a proposal for an amendment tabled by the Socialist Party is at the table, we had assumed that this could be the first party to intervene. If you are not registered on our part, there is no problem and Mr Heitor Sousa can intervene now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u23	Thank you very much, but so far this information has not come to the Bureau on the proposal for an amendment tabled by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. Certainly, it will be a technical mistake. But please speak, Mr. Luís Moreira Testa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this Chamber, this discussion is recurrent. It was so with the STCP (Coat Transport Society) and the Port Metro and it is now with Carris. in fact, at the beginning of this legislation, the Government of the Republic had a purpose: to avoid at all costs, at any cost—and after all, it did not cost much—the dismantling of public transport companies. We have achieved this in favour of citizens, communities and the provision of public service. We defend people and public companies, defending the country. We also welcome the benefits and contributions of the partners of this progressive majority. in fact, their concerns were legitimate and contributed to the improvement of government diplomas. in the same way, we welcome the concerns of the President of the Republic and, to this extent, we have succeeded in finding a way which unites these three aspects: on the one hand, the commitment made to the Government, the Portuguese and the Country; on the other hand, the proposals and contributions given by the partners of this majority; and, of course, the concerns of the President of the Republic. It is in this sense, with this culture of commitment, that the way is made. And it is in full respect for the people and citizens we are here today. We have achieved a good desire for public service, a good desire for public companies and a great desire for those who are the beneficiaries of the public transport service. Here's our engagement. And, contrary to what it seems, the gentlemen. Members of the parties that supported the previous government did not understand any of this. They didn't understand any of this and then they're scared of the result they have in their confrontation with the population. That is why we, every day, find more and more support for the population that is governed by this government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u25	Now, yes, Mr. Heitor Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u26	Mr President, I would like to begin by referring to the fact that we are here, at the seat of plenary, to discuss for the second time a political veto, the second political veto of the President of the Republic concerning the same type of matter, which has to do with public transport service providers and public undertakings providing public transport services. The first political veto was the STCP and the second case now concerns Carris. These are the same considerations that Mr President of the Republic has made, both in the first and in the second political veto. The majority of the parties who support the current Government amendments to the Decree-Law were here to clarify the conditions for the provision of the public transport service of Carris in the city of Lisbon and also to introduce a number of components that increase the possibility of participation of citizens or other companies providing the transport service in the metropolitan area of Lisbon in a general advisory council that becomes operational within the normal framework of the Caris structure. These proposals were adopted in general and in the speciality here in the Assembly of the Republic and could already be in force. They are not in force because Mr President of the Republic has decided to invoke the right of veto, which has a political veto on the possibility of the Decree-Law to prevent any grant of Caris, even if it may one day correspond to the will of the local authorities. However, Mr President of the Republic may not have been sufficiently attentive when he wrote this item, because the grant of Carris, which dates from 21 December 1973, has the expiry date of 50 years and was granted by the municipality to the State. Therefore, in the case of Carris awarding, contrary to what happens to STCP, there already exists a concession of the municipality of Lisbon, which is in force and which ends only on 31 December 2023. Therefore, this item of the political veto of Mr. President of the Republic is somewhat out of focus, because that is not what happens in the case of the Caris Decree-Law, approved here, and in the case of the Caris concession. Having said this, the important thing to withdraw from this veto of Mr. President of the Republic is that he does not escape the ideological matrix from which Mr. President of the Republic is native, the Social Democratic Party, which, as we all know and remember,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u27	I ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u28	... tried to privatize Carris and the metropolitan of Lisbon from the figure of the sub-concession. It is precisely against this possibility that these amendments were introduced and are reaffirmed here by the proposal for an amendment tabled by the Socialist Party to the Decree-Law approved by the Assembly of the Republic and with which we express our agreement. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u29	Mr Carlos Santos Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr President of the Republic was well when he vetoed this Decree of the Assembly of the Republic, since the diploma was essentially based on an ideological option by management,... [[BE's protests.]] ... by not basing this position on any specific fact, from a legal, economic or financial point of view, or in particular on functional or organisational aspects. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u31	We were very pleased to note the position of the PS, particularly of Mr Luís Testa, in the last parliamentary debate, in which he said that amendments would be made to the concerns of the President of the Republic. [[He's changed his mind!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u32	however, what we have today is a PS tied to the left parliament, to management,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u33	... by making a proposal for an amendment which denotes that they will insist on the initial position, confirming the criticisms we have made to the diploma and not alarming the concerns of the President of the Republic. It is a diploma that runs counter to the autonomy of the democratic local power, calling into question its independence and functioning and clearly and intrusing itself intolerable in the management of the authorities.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u34	If so, it was unconstitutional!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u35	Yes, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as we discuss this diploma, Carris continues to derail, he continues to lose passengers, he is still late. Even with the growth of tourism in Lisbon, Carris continues to slide. Users continue to be unhappy, claim to eliminate careers, claim to lose infinite hours in transit, claim to travel as canted sardines. Don't stop the complaints!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u36	There are four new careers!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u37	The passage from Carris to the City Hall of Lisbon, in practice, did not solve anything. A change of shareholder was observed and users already feel a difference, yes, but it is a difference for worse. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u38	For an intervention, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is true that we are discussing this for the second time. And the first question is whether the President of the Republic is wrong for the second time or was right for the second time. In our view, Mr President of the Republic is right twice. And it is not an ideological veto, Mr. Heitor Sousa, because, if the left wants to maintain coherence, then I ask: what is the model of management of the Port Metro? Is the Port Metro management in line with what you are proposing today? Obviously not.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u40	Carris!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u41	« But the Port Metro is different from Carris », the gentlemen will say. There's consistency, sir! And I will no longer give other examples in chambers led, including by the Portuguese Communist Party, in which they are also accepted private in the management of the public thing. But there you will have the attitudes you take.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u42	Shoot!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u43	I will therefore say the following: it was perfectly consensual to establish the Metropolitan Transport Authorities for the authorities. I think, I think it's reasonable, because they're closer to the problem and they manage better. The former Government has promoted a wide involvement of the authorities in defining the public service. All this seems right to us. Do we respect the autonomy of local power? The Portuguese Communist Party — followed by the Left Block and the Socialist Party — “restrains the garments” in defending the autonomy of local power but then, in practice, when the autonomy of local power is respected, it is too high that the authorities cannot! And we're not talking about privatization, we're talking about sub-concessions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u44	From privatizing the service!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u45	Of subconcessions, something completely different! And what does the Portuguese Communist Party say? He says: “No, no! There, the authorities cannot subdone private capital, there can be no private in management, this is very serious, it has to be all public! Do not keep on seeking. ” It is clear that there is good management and poor management, whether public or private. And then, yes, there is an attack, there is an ideological prejudice against the private, against private capitals and against private management. What I will say is this: I regret that the PS, the change of parliamentary support, has thrown its entire history into the trash. It is that those who privatized most in the country were socialist governments, who enrolled more privatizations in the troika program and who made more PPPs (public-private partnerships) was the Socialist Party. Doing what? By inviting private, inviting private capital and private management to be a reliable partner of a government supposedly reliable in the management of the public thing. We don't have that prejudice. For us, the need for foreign capital, the need for private capital, good management, good practice is useful for the management of the public thing. That is why we do not agree with the VV proposals. Ex. Here they come. The maintenance of this Decree-Law means an attack on local power, an attack on what you have always defended as to the autonomy of local power, an attack on public service, an attack on the quality of service, is against foreign investment capture rules. It is clear that I perceive this coming from the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party. Between the autonomy of local power and good public service, on the one hand, and the unions, on the other hand, the unions have chosen. That is why you keep that position. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u46	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As the CFP had already had the opportunity to point out, this political veto of the President of the Republic was expected. It reflects the position of those who do not accept that it can prevent the delivery to the private of Carris or its participants.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u48	He's got the Port Metro!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u49	But the political option to safeguard public enterprises — companies that are state because their owner is the people — is a political option that is not only legitimate as it is, in fact, that effectively fulfils the defence of the public interest, the defense of the people and workers and the defense of the Constitution of the Republic. We are faced with an attitude and a political position of the President of the Republic, who, after all, knew from the outset of another legislative process on this sector, which had to do with, in particular, the law of the Assembly of the Republic which prevented the privatisation of the STCP. As we said then, this is a political option and not any constitutional or legal issue and the arguments of the honourable Members fall on the basis of that. Members of the PSD and the CDS on the autonomy of local power, in this sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u50	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u51	This decree was passed by a majority in the Assembly of the Republic, on the understanding that public transport — and in particular this company and the service it provides to the populations — should not be the subject of appropriation by economic groups. in our understanding, there is no reason why the Assembly of the Republic should not reaffirm the political options that were based on the approval in question, which are just and necessary, even those that have been questioned by the President of the Republic. What the CFP proposes and therefore advocates is that legislation can be enacted in order to ensure the prohibition of privatization of Carris and its participants, as well as to safeguard the remaining measures which have been adopted, including measures to enhance collective bargaining, of undeniable importance for workers and public service. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u52	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After what has already been heard about the matter that is now under discussion, it cannot be considered that closing the door to the delivery of Caris to private is an ideological option but opening the door and pushing for the delivery of Caris to private is not an ideological option. This is in fact an ideological option and there is no problem, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. That's right! Political life is made of the same: political options that are ideological options. Therefore, Mr President of the Republic, when he made the veto that he made, when he made this option, he also did so in accordance with his ideological options and considered that it would be important, eventually, to leave the door open for Carris to be delivered to private people. Now, the Greens clearly challenge this logic and consider it important to safeguard the public management of such a company. Furthermore, one principle that the Greens have in relation to transport is that public management always gives citizens better assurance of their needs than private management, which is made in a profit logic and therefore often involves cuts in careers, cuts in paths, running away from those that are the real needs of the population. Finally, it is such an ideological issue as the defense that the Greens here have made intransigently of public water management. We believe that there are certain sectors which, of such strategic importance for the response to citizens and for the development of the country, are in fact responsible for public management and not for their delivery to the private sector. [[Congrats from the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u54	Mr Luís Testa of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for the last intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: The way of this discussion frightens us in an atrocious way. With regard to the autonomy of local authority, who gives more means, the capacity to provide more services does not have confidence and does not respect the autonomy of local authority? Oh, my God! That's what we got! Those who have prejudices here reveal them with regard to their own prejudice about the public management of the public thing. After the strong faith in private management, crushed by bank management, we now see the prejudice against public management, not only public management largely but also the public management of local authorities. It is curious, in the time we live, after Sunday election night, to realize that those who do not have confidence in their own authentic management may have had the result. It's life! We are here with respect for the autonomy of local power, but above all with confidence in local power.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u56	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u57	Whoever acts in this way, expressing respect and consideration, assigns means and powers. This is our way. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u58	Mr Carlos Silva, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has now entered to intervene, after the last intervention by the PS, which is the one who proposes the amendment initiative. By raising no objection to the PS Parliamentary Group, I give the floor to Mr Carlos Silva for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u59	Mr President, I thank the Socialist Party for understanding. Mr. President and Mr. Members: This option was not only ideological, it was also electoralist, and I say it was electoralist because it does not take care of the interests of the citizens of this Metropolitan Area of Lisbon. I ask what are the rights of residents outside Lisbon, such as Almada, Amadora, Loures, Odivelas, Oeiras, because they still feel more discriminated against by the performance of Caris. For these, the difference is even greater: they are incomprehensiblely discriminated against by the discounts that residents in Lisbon have and to which they are not entitled. [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u60	Discounts are for everyone!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u61	What is the mechanism that allows the autarchs of these councils to have a word to say about the management of Carris in their territory? It is that about 40 % of Carris's operation is outside the municipality of Lisbon.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u62	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u63	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u64	How will it be possible for these users outside Lisbon, from the neighbouring municipalities, to make their voice heard? What is the mechanism that management has thought for them? For us, Carris can be both private and public, what counts is that he provides a good public transport service, quality, for users. We maintain our position, which is that the municipalization of Carris does not solve any structural problems of the company. We also regret that the concern of this debate has been that, at all costs, it has prevented the privatisation of Carris and has not been to guarantee the quality of transport services. I regret that the Parliamentary left, on this matter, of the priority of the users, has not had a single concern, one word. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u65	I'll talk now!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u66	I'll excuse you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u67	Mr Bruno Dias also wants to use the same prerogative and the PS Parliamentary Group accepts this will. So Mr Bruno Dias has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u68	Mr President, it is appropriate to say: now I speak! We were not supposed to prolong the debate, but, in the face of this challenge by Mr Silva, it is important to make two comments. in this case, a first reaction to the intervention we have just heard is that Mr Carlos Silva and the PSD have been misled in the debate. It is that in the discussion in which it is essentially concerned the question of safeguarding Carris in the public sphere and the decision to prevent his privatization, there comes Mr Carlos Silva talking about the decision to hand over to the City Hall of Lisbon to Carris, which was a debate which, without mistake, we had a few months ago in this same room.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u69	Stay up to date!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u70	Established that it was the approval of the House's legislation that responded to the amendments that were possible to achieve in this matter, Mr. Carlos Silva now appears by the PSD to omit and forget and to ignore what was done by his government throughout the previous mandate, when they wanted to close careers in a completely barbarous way... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u71	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u72	...in Carris, in the metropolitan area, in all public transport, including in the same municipalities as you just mentioned. It is true that if we did not know him so well we would say that he was distracted, Mr President. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u73	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late. We therefore conclude the re-evaluation of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 155 / XIII. Before we go to the next point, I inform you. Members who have made a proposal for an amendment to the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 155 / XIII, which will be voted on tomorrow. Mrs. Members, we now move on to the third point of our agenda, which is from the assessment of the 2016 Annual Internal Security Report ( RASI 2016 ). To begin the debate, you have the floor of Ms. Minister of Internal Administration, Urban Constance of Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u74	Mr President, Ex.mas Members and Ex.mos Mrs. Members: It is, of course, with great pleasure that I meet here today for a brief assessment of the 2016 Annual Internal Security Report, although this is the responsibility of the Secretary-General of the Internal Security System, who is responsible, in essence, for the collection and processing of data concerning all crime recorded in our country by all criminal police bodies and not only for those who I directly protect. Having made this previous point, I would like to make a brief review of RASI 2016, focusing on three aspects: the most relevant global data, a very summary analysis of some criminal categories and the geographical distribution of crime. Since 2008 there has been a very sustained drop in recorded crime, either in general crime, which has decreased between 2008 and 2016 anything like 21 % or, within this country, in serious and more violent crime, which has still had a more significant decrease in these years, of 32 %. In 2016, this trend remained, with a decrease in the general crime involved in the order of 7, 1 %, even more expressive in violent crime, which fell more than 11 %. With regard to the analysis of criminal categories, I would like to highlight the decline in theft crimes, in their most diverse forms, with a variation of 9 %, 6 %, as well as in theft crimes, also in their various forms, with a variation of 14 %, basically following the trend that has occurred in recent years. As for the rise, there is a more significant rise in the crimes of ridicule, in its various forms, with more than 7%, and in the crimes relating to drug trafficking, with a greater volume of seizures and arrests, which also has a great deal to do with police pro-activity. in computer crimes, or in the computer environment, the upward trend remains unsurprisingly, with an overall increase of 142 cases in 2016, representing a rise of 21 %. I would like to highlight, in the most violent and serious crime, that is the one that generates a greater feeling of insecurity in the populations, very significant declines in theft on the public road and in theft by summer, having recorded a decrease of more than 7% in the first and more than 24% in the second. This is a type of crime that contributes greatly to the feeling of insecurity of people in general. In addition, we have come down very high in some types of crime, such as drug theft, with less than 68%. in the thefts in transport of values and in extortion we had more sharp increases. Domestic violence continues to be a phenomenon that is accompanied with particular attention. Unfortunately, not only due to the constant high number of shares, there was a slight increase of 1,5 % in 2016 compared to the previous year. As for juvenile delinquency, which is another phenomenon that deserves attention, I would like to highlight its very significant decline. with regard to geographical distribution, there was, in districts such as Lisbon, Porto, Leiria, Vila Real, a very sharp decline in crime. I only have provisional data for the first half of 2017 for the same period last year, but, according to the data available to me, violent and serious crime continues its downward trend and general crime, without this type, has recorded a slight increase of about 2 % in the first half of 2017 compared to the same period. however, I think this data...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u75	You want to do the favor of finishing up, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u76	I will now finish, Mr President. These data confirm that Portugal continues to be a safe country, the third most secure country in the world, according to international indexes, also thanks to the selfless commitment of all those professionals of the various Portuguese police officers who daily watch for our safety. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u77	For an intervention by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr José Silvano has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u78	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs Deputies and Mrs Ladies and gentlemen: by analyzing this report which translates the numbers of general crime, we can say that it contains positive aspects and negative aspects that reflect concerns for the future. in the positive aspects, there is a reduction of stakes by 7, 1 %, in which violent and serious crime was reduced by about 11, 6 %. In concrete terms, this decrease was mainly due to a significant decrease in vehicle theft, precious metal theft, driving of a vehicle with an alcohol rate equal to or greater than 1, 2 g/l and the theft in residence with breakdown or false keys. with regard to violent and serious crime, the crimes of theft on the public road, which represented 74, 5% of the total crimes, stand out. Two positive aspects that are of interest to highlight: police proactivity, which has significantly reduced the type of crimes with preventive and early action of the police, and the general prevention and police programmes, from the support of children to support the elderly, to road prevention, etc. It's always better to prevent than to remedy. But we must also highlight the negative aspects. The widespread increase in computer crime, including the crime of computer sabotage, which increased 140 %, and the crime of computer falsehood, which increased 58 %, and the increase of 36% of the crimes of pornography with minors, which is also highlighted in this type of crime. The domestic violence crime also increased by 1, 4 %. Crimes in the school environment increased by 6, 2 %, although these occurrences were outside the classroom. The crime of trafficking in human beings has increased 35, 2 % and this increase is associated with three major interventions in the field of agricultural exploitation, which we want to mention here. However, attention has recently come to news that Portugal is a new route of trafficking for African children. Since March, the SEF ( Foreign and Border Service ) has detected five minor victims at Lisbon airport. We need to pay attention to this crime, specifically. The crime of extortion was what increased most in Portugal. The crimes of ill-treatment and abandonment of pets due to legislative amendment also increased significantly. in the area of road fatality, where legislative measures have recently been introduced by the Government, it is to highlight the increase in road deaths in about 35, in the same period as the previous year. It is urgent to ask when an assessment of this measure was a significant change. These figures, translated into numbers, must deserve our attention and our opinion, so that the Government will see clearly the strategic changes it has to mitigate them. Thus, in the individualised treatment of crime, the Report addresses global threats to security. It says the Report that, in recent years, there have been receiving and evaluating evidences that account for the worsening of some risk factors, some already detected in our country. In « Strategic Guidelines for 2017 », the priority is to implement the National Counter-Terrorism Strategy. So it is urgent to ask the following: on the basis of these more and more current concerns, is it not necessary and urgent to restore normality in the information services of the Portuguese Republic? For when is the election of missing organs? For when is the normalization of the services of the Foreign and Border Service at airports? For when is the entry at cross-speed of the contact point? And in terms of the allocation and acquisition of Portuguese nationality, where there are significant increases in applications for nationality, has it not been risky to make successive amendments to the law? The SEF believes that the amendments are bad and that the previous regime was balanced. And in the prevention of the fight against forest fires, is the reality of this year no longer worth attention in the future planning of this prevention and firefighting? More than an analysis of the data collected in 2016, it is necessary to mention whether the strategic guidelines outlined by the Government in this Report resolve or mitigate these concerns, which still remain in Portuguese society. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u79	You now have the floor on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Amador.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u80	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs Deputies and Mrs Members: The current society is subject to an increasing complexity of crime phenomena, which implies that security is the object of integrated work, reconstruction and constant and intelligent evolution, in order to effectively prevent and combat crime and maintain adequate and high levels of security, as reflected in the 2016 Internal Security Report, which we now appreciate. As a collective good of undeniable social value, public security is increasingly of high economic importance. We are well aware that the ability to guarantee security is a source of development of our homeland. Portugal is today one of the safest countries in the world, according to the Global Peace Index, of the Institute for Economics and Peace, as it reveals that the Portuguese State has ensured with competence the defence of democratic legality and the rights of citizens in the light of Article 272. the Constitution. This is the way of justice to praise and greet all men and women who daily serve the security forces and criminal police agencies—at the PSP (PSC), at the GNR ( Republican National Guard ), in the SEF, in the PJ ( Judicial Police), in the National Maritime Authority and in the Coordination System—ensure the order, security and public tranquility of all Portuguese and all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The 2016 Internal Security Report mirrors this same broad-spectrum security framework and presents globally very positive data, with which we welcome it. The decline sustained since 2008, either from general crime, which has decreased 21 % either within violent and serious crime, which has decreased by 32 %, is a clear sign of the effectiveness of prevention, reintegration and repression over the years. However, it should be pointed out that in 2015, the last year of the previous Government, PSD / CDS, general crime had again increased by 1, 3 %, contrary to the trend of previous years. During the year 2016, the full year of responsibility of the current government was recorded less than 25 160 shares, a reduction of 7, 1 % compared to 2015, and violent and serious crime presents less 2203 shares, fell 11, 6 %. The number of crimes recorded by the police in 2016 is the lowest since statistics are published by the Internal Security System, starting in 2003. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, these values are the lowest in the last 15 years and occur in a demanding context of population growth in the main urban centres of Porto and Lisbon, due to the growing numbers of tourism. Violent and serious crime had a greater expression in Lisbon, Porto and Setúbal, which will obviously reflect security planning in these territories. in the context of crimes against people it is particularly worth the attention of this Parliamentary Group to the crime of domestic violence against spouses, which has an increase of 1, 4 % of participations vis-à-vis 2015, which also illustrates the greatest report of the security forces and offices dedicated to this crime. We are faced with a scourge that has led to various legislative changes, many under the aegis of the Socialist Party, aiming at more effective prevention and punishment, and which requires new preventive methodologies, which we are adopting. We welcome the increasing number of victim care rooms, with nearly 65% of the teams and posts already making this service available, as well as the policy of territorialization and involvement of Portuguese municipalities, through protocols that the Government has developed in a continuous investment for equality. The fight against domestic violence is thus a struggle for society as a whole, and education for the equality and citizenship of our young people will be decisive in our schools for their eradication and for the fight against violence in dating, which, when uncultuated, has increased the number of participations in the school environment. With regard to young people, there is a reassuring figure in terms of the 2016 RASI which has been observed in the previous year, which is related to the decrease in juvenile crime by 22, 7 % and group crime by 14, 9 %, i.e. our young people are taking less misleading behaviours today, which allows us to see a better future in terms of security. Finally, we are dealing entirely with the Strategic Guidelines for 2017, which aim: to maintain the path of continued decline in crime by placing on specific prevention and police programmes and actions; to strengthen the operational and material needs of the sector; to promote more and better road safety; to ensure priority treatment at the level of prevention and investigation of crime of trafficking in human beings and illegal immigration; to affirm a border control policy based on the principles of solidarity, humanity and shared responsibility, ensuring adequate and fair international protection within the framework of the European Union for refugees, of which we are very proud; and to improve the efficiency of civil protection and protection and protection conditions. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in a framework of demand and increased complexity of the crime phenomenon, in which global threats to security, such as terrorism, cyber-threatening and proliferation of chemical weapons need constant supervision of information systems and effective international cooperation that continuously assess the threat, given the existing risk factors and that Portugal is not immune, it is vital that all be mobilised so that Portugal continues to be a country of high security.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u81	You want to do the right thing to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u82	I will finish immediately, Mr. President. Internal security, dear Members and Members of Parliament, is an essential area for public policies based on the fundamental democratic principle that freedom and security are dimensions of human dignity and citizenship. These will always be the values in which we forge the Free Country and the Safe Country that we are proud to be. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u83	You now have the floor on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sandra Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u84	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs Deputies and Mrs Members : I would like to leave some very concrete notes to the 2016 Annual Internal Security Report. I shall, of course, begin by congratulating on the continued decline, which has come for some years, of the number of participations of crime in general and of violent and serious crime, with two exceptions, however. When we talk about crimes that increase or crimes that decrease, we are actually talking about the data of the crime involved and, therefore, we have to be careful not to extrapolate this data to a reality that we do not know is echoed in this number of participations. Therefore, we need to be careful in extrapolating these data to the actual reality. The second point is that the trend towards a uniform decline in the number of shares is an exception in the Autonomous Region of the Azores, which should bring us to concern and special attention in this area. Having said that, the Left Block feels, however, worrying — despite the continued congratulation of the data involved — the fact that crimes against people are continuously, year after year, the second category of crimes more frequently and that domestic violence in this category in particular continues to occupy the second place, with almost 30 % of participations in this category. There have been more than 304 shares of domestic violence against spouse or similar since 2015. We also point out, as a matter of great concern — indeed, as in previous years and therefore point out that what is being done is insufficient — the incidence rate of domestic violence in the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira, which is almost twice the rate on the Continent. Trends also remain: the victims are mostly female, the reported predominantly male, the degree of parenthood mostly spouse/ partner or former spouse/ former companion. Domestic violence therefore persists as one of the main security problems in the country and with a clear gender brand. Unfortunately, in this specific field of domestic violence, bad news does not stop here: RASI reports a 6 % increase in the number of participations due to domestic violence, more than 123 than in the previous year. Being sure that this can also be an indicator of a greater predisposition of the victims to denounce the situations, these are, however, very high numbers that should call us all and all for the highest concern and the most determined action. It is necessary to intensify, in conjunction with the Autonomous Regions, with the authorities and schools, public awareness campaigns and information specifically directed to the younger audiences on domestic violence in dating, according to what the Left Block has already proposed, at an initiative presented in April this year and which was, in fact, approved unanimously. I therefore ask you, Minister, what is specifically planned by the Government for the effective fight against this scourge of violence in courtship. On the other hand, the fight and relief for victims of domestic violence also depends, we all know, on the specialized capacity and preparation of the security forces. We note with concern the significant increase in the number of security forces elements that ceased to function from 2015 to 2016, but, above all, the fact that revenue from new elements does not relieve those who left. I would also like to hear the Minister on this matter and on whether new entrance competitions are planned for the security forces and, if so, for the time being. with regard to the care rooms for victims of domestic violence, the coverage continues in the order of 63%. There have already been several projects, several initiatives that have entered this House, which have been discussed and approved, about the need to strengthen these care rooms, so I wonder if this is being implemented by the government. with regard to the training and training of the security forces, the Left Block presented an initiative, also approved in plenary unanimously, which responds with concrete measures to the data that RASI brings us, according to which more than half of the domestic violence crimes occur during the usual hours of rest, night and morning, and therefore it is necessary to ensure that the elements of the patrols and the teams that respond to these emergencies are equipped with the necessary training and skills. I wanted to leave a last word about crimes against sexual self-determination. RASI presents data on the number of detainees and the percentages of the various types of crime, but we do not know exactly the number of participations in each type. The information is insufficient and does not allow us to see developments in this type of crime. Concerned, in this category, is the fact that typologies with higher percentages refer to sexual abuse of children, child pornography and rape. Once again, RASI does not allow us to perceive the real incidence of these crimes and therefore it is something that needs to be resolved. I ask you, Minister, what is the Government's strategy to combat this type of crime, which is one of the most horrendous in all crimes against people, and also how RASI can bring more information about the real incidence of this crime. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u85	Mr António Filipe of the CFP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u86	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs Deputies and Mrs Members : Of course, it is commendable that the 2016 Internal Security Report points to a general reduction in crime. over a significant set of years, we have discussed here the reasons for a sensitive reduction in the general crime rates in our country, which for some may even be difficult to explain, as it is known, the number of police officers' effectiveness remains in demand and, in recognition of their need. But if we look at the debates we have discussed here on the internal security reports, particularly in the 1990s, and the elements available today, we see that there has been a significant change in the Portuguese legal order, which has to do with the amendments to the so-called 'drug law' which occurred in the late 1990s and which have had a very significant impact. If we look at the debates on the internal security reports of the 1990s, we find that the greatest growth factor in crime in those years was the crime associated with drug addiction, not only with regard to drug use and trafficking, but with a whole practice of crimes against property and people, which were related to drug addiction, drug use and the need for thousands of drug addicts—I am not exaggerating—to find ways to support their addictions. The amendments which have occurred in our country on this matter, and which are indeed the subject of international praise and study, have certainly contributed greatly to the fact that, over the past few years, there has been a considerable and sustained reduction in the general rates of crime. Therefore, with the contribution that the CFP Parliamentary Group has made to this legislative amendment, in which it has put many hopes, we can say today that the convergence that was possible at that time — that only the parties on the right have been excluded — has actually allowed us to point to levels of crime other than those that existed today. [[The CDS-PP Member's laughs Telmo Correia.]] Mr Telmo Correia laughed. I think you are right to smile, given the positive consequences of this legislative amendment, but you are no longer very right to smile if you remember that the CDS opposed it. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are obviously concerns. The indexes reported here regarding domestic violence point to the need to intensify the fight against this form of crime, its prevention and, of course, its repression. The existence of other types of crimes, including new forms of crime, such as cybercrime, which is becoming increasingly important, and of course the numbers relating to trafficking in human beings raise the greatest concerns and we must continue to pay great attention to the need to reduce the rates of crime, because, despite a decrease, of course, there is still a significant crime for which we are not allowed to lower our custody. Regarding the effective ones, there are issues to be raised: we continue to see that in some police forces there is a manifest demand for effectives, particularly with regard to the Maritime Police and the SEF. Although 90 trainee inspectors have entered the SEF in 2016, there is still a manifest lack of effective, incompatible with the responsibilities of this security service. It is also with concern that, for 2016, there has been a slight increase in GNR effectiveness — and when I speak on the increase, I speak in the difference between outputs and inputs — but there is a large deficit in PSP effectiveness, in which 832 outputs have only been compensated with 446 inputs, which means a reduction of almost 400 effective in this security force. Therefore, this is still a concern that we have to maintain, until the relatively advanced age of the security forces' effectors, and which is moving forward, obviously in medium terms, requires a great effort in the renewal of the effective ones, particularly those security forces that have greater responsibilities, given the territorial scope of action, which are the PSP and the GNR. Therefore, this is an ongoing concern. In conclusion, I would say that it is not enough to praise the effort these professionals make in combating crime — it is never too much praised — they must be compensated for their work, and indeed the replacement of rights to these professionals should not be forgotten. When we talk about wage levels, the need to pay attention to working hours, promotions, we must not forget that these professionals also deserve the best of our attention. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u87	You have the floor on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Telmo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u88	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs Deputies and Mrs Members: I would like to begin by saying that, in fact, and as Mr António Filipe pointed out right now, I have smiled, but I have done so for two reasons which seem reasonable and interesting, Mr. First of all, and regardless of the bench where we can sit in this Chamber, the structural trend, the determining tendency for Portugal to have, a few years ago, the crime to come down and for this global crime to continue to come down - we have come down here with a reduction of 7, 1 % in the general crime involved - is something that we must all rejoice and that, of course, we do not deny. We do not deny reality, we find positive and very relevant, and this is the first reason to smile. Secondly, Mr António Filipe tries to see in this very reality a huge merit in the government — moreover, although there is someone on his bench who continues to see so many merits in this government solution and in this management, someone would have to be! — but indeed, as has been said here and the Minister herself began to say, this is a trend that has been very backward for many years, and it is therefore not worth creating the illusion that there are great changes and that there have been major changes, because it has not been so, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u89	90s!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u90	This is the first assessment and we will say that overall the report makes us satisfied. Nevertheless, in the CDS — I, Mr Nuno Magalhães and others on our bench — we have been advocating the idea that, many years ago, even in a positive global trend, when there are certain types of crimes that show signs of increasing or alarming signs, they should be given special attention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u91	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u92	in this report in particular, we could talk about theft in the transport of values, which has a very significant increase, of course. We could also talk, even if it is not as big as it was in previous years, about the number of assaults on petrol bombs, and we could also say that, despite all this, much of the violent crime still concerns theft on the public road. So there is a great trend from this point of view. We have already spoken here, and we have followed the issue of domestic violence and dating violence, which still has very important numbers in our country. Therefore, these are areas which I believe should deserve particular attention in the strategy and response of the Government. More specifically, we find it worrying—because it is something that has come from a few years ago to this part, something that the CDS has always spoken about, something in which the CDS has made concrete proposals — violence, not so much within schools, but in what is called the'school environment', which remains a major concern of this Internal Security Report. If something should be protected, it is obviously our children and our young people and if there is an environment, among all, that must be protected is obviously the environment around schools. That is a matter of concern. Finally, Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we could ask whether all this is happening, as some of you would like. Members, by an extraordinary action of the Government, because the Government has resolved and answered all issues. I would say no and there we keep signs of very great concern. If this happens, if crime continues to decline to a very large extent, as has already been said here, and well, because there is an extraordinary merit of the men and women who are in our security forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u93	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u94	It is the merit of them that has allowed this continued low, it is the merit of women and men who work without often seeing their problem of solved status, as we know, that they feel and have increasingly evident signs of discontent, who often live without sufficient means to combat crime. We recently learned that even in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon or the Metropolitan Area of Porto there are no cars, that many of the cars are stopped, that the equipment is poor. These are issues that, from our point of view, are not being sufficiently resolved, like many others. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u95	Madam Minister, I could ask you how far we are from the union law, if we are going to have, if we don't have, I could ask you what happened. Otherwise it seems to be a paradigm of this government, in areas of sovereignty... we don't know anything about Tanks, but we don't know anything about Glock's weapons that have disappeared. Do we have any conclusions yet? Do we know what happened? We have no definitive conclusions. Mrs Minister, recognizing that you have even reacted — and well — to some initiatives and proposals, too, in the area of terrorism, that this report speaks as a central issue, I ask you where is the airport security plan, because the 90 days for its preparation, which this House has approved, are already out of date and so far we do not see this plan finished. This is a fundamental issue, which is the protection of our external border. According to recent news that has come to the public, the question of metadata itself, where we have been encouraged, and that in good time the government has accompanied, is still without regulation. I have also seen the Minister recently announce that training would be extended, and indeed, to the proximity police — I am talking about the central issue of terrorism — but there is still much to be done. We will move forward to the budgetary debate, but we have the idea and the concern that there are shortcomings in these areas, there is expenditure to make, there are means and conditions, especially for men and women of the security forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u96	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u97	We see the question of the effectiveness and the question of the SEF, which are to be resolved. And we hope, Madam Minister, that this is the time to resolve what the government has not resolved, because that is your obligation. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u98	For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : of the 2016 Annual Internal Security Report we want to highlight the data on domestic violence. Looking at the panorama of the 20 districts of mainland Portugal and autonomous regions, we found that the occurrence of domestic violence increased by more than 50% of the districts, with a marked growth in Braga and Portalegre. It is precisely in Portalegre, Faro, Madeira and the Azores that the incidence rate is higher than the national average and reinforcing an increase compared to 2015. In turn, and throughout the country, 84% of the victims are women and 86% of the persons reported are men, which unfortunately continues to show that we live in a society where still resist the roots that for years have consolidated and validated a position of force in which masculinity dominates. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the NAP the RASI serves to understand together how to prevent and combat crime and violence, either through prevention mechanisms, or through complaints and action mechanisms. in this sense, and taking into account the specific case of domestic violence, we call on the Government to give effect to the urgent recommendation of the Assembly of the Republic, proposed by the NAP, and to ensure the training and exchange of knowledge of the agents of the criminal police agencies, creating better conditions for the prevention, reporting and care of victims, taking into account the social indicators of our country. We are facing a crime with serious and profound repercussions on the personal, family, professional and social plans of the victims concerned, which alone is worthy of the due and appropriate answers on our part. Another note that we cannot help but do, even because it also reveals patterns of violence in our society, concerns crimes against pets. According to RASI, this category continues to be one of the four most representative, and almost all manifestations of violence in relation to animals have fallen. Only the GNR carried out 16 622 supervisory actions to animals not considered potentially dangerous and raised 12,000 counter-ordering cars. A total of 1046 crimes against animals have been committed. It should be stressed that these data relate only to pet animals. If that were not the case, we would be faced with a much higher number of participations, since the report on maltreatment, for example, on horses or more recently on the transport of live animals, is recurrent. Although data show greater concern for animals, it is also true that there is a long way to go, especially with regard to the understanding that all animals deserve respect and are treated with dignity. This path must necessarily go through the extension of protection against ill-treatment to all animals, currently only to pets and this has not yet happened because most Members of the Assembly of the Republic do not want to.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u100	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now move on to the next item on our agenda, which is to examine the final report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry on the Recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box and the Bank's Management. Each parliamentary group has 3 minutes to intervene. As we always do in such debates, I have the floor, first of all, Mr President of that Commission, Mr Emídio Guerreiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Chairmaning this Commission was not easy. The fact that it was constituted by the initiative of a minority of this Parliament has harmed our work. The need to review the legal regime of parliamentary investigations has been made clear to me, particularly when committees are set up under the constitutional principle of the protection of the rights of minorities. The current regime provides for the mandatory constitution, but the omissions of the law make them functioning in a complex exercise where the majority torpedo the rights of minorities. That is how it happened, not only damaging the work but, above all, the image of Parliament with the citizens and the trust that must exist between the electors and the electors. This Commission has shown another failure of the current law. The investigative powers of the judicial authorities committed to the committees of inquiry were questioned several times by the various readings which, both parliamentary and external groups, were made of these same powers. And then the question of the deadlines, in a scenario of these, with a parliamentary commission of inquiry constituted by a minority, and without the proper consensus around it, we were surprised by the recurrent use of all the legal dilatory records which objectively prevented us from accessing the decisive information for the work. On appeal, the General Deposit Box, the MVC, the Banco de Portugal and the Ministry of Finance have gained sufficient time to steal from the duty to provide the information requested by the various parliamentary groups, despite several judicial decisions in favour of Parliament. And so the deadlines for the duration of the investigation were cut without obtaining both the decisions of the appeals brought and the information requested. It is necessary to create provisions in the law that allow institutions to use the resources provided for, but without jeopardising the work of parliamentary committees of inquiry. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it was a difficult exercise, but it has made it possible to identify clearly where we can and should act in reviewing the legal regime of parliamentary investigations. It was difficult, but I cannot help but give a word of appreciation to Parliament's officials and advisers for the professionalism shown, to the rapporteur for the effort made in record time, as well as to all the coordinators and Members who, in spite of all things, have always contributed to the proper functioning of the work. But let us be clear, with this legal figure, that parliamentary committees of inquiry are of little or no use. [[Congratulations on the PSD and on the CDS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u102	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Rapporteur of the Committee of Inquiry, Mr Carlos Pereira, of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The final report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the Recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box was a major effort to vote on the reasons, in all order, which led to the capitalisation of the public bank in 2016. It is true that this Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry has lived through distressing times and has suffered vicissitudes that have conditioned the final work but, despite all, it has been possible to produce a report that reflects the essence of almost two dozen hearings and is the result of the documentation made available. There is, and I think it is not relevant to clarify, in the content of the conclusions presented, any attempt to produce realities based on assumptions or any speculative effort. It was an exercise based on the facts presented and on the statements made, as, in fact, it could not fail to be. Therefore, the report presented corresponds to the polling activity of this Parliamentary Inquiry Commission and does not imply any attempt to justify any biased thesis. This is perhaps the conclusion which was missing but which could not fail to be presented because of the duty of all those who have contributed genuinely, and responsibly, to the final conclusions, be Members, be advisors or institutions involved. I have mentioned several times, and I would stress again, that it would have been important that the different entities, to whom documentation was requested, had not put obstacles or even, if they preferred, that the courts had ensured more speed in ensuring the transfer of information. No one in the country understands that there are restrictions on elections within the framework of the Assembly of the Republic, provided that all regulations are complied with. Of course, we all understand the limits and possible consequences for the fleet, without rules and purely party profit, for the life of a bank in operation, but I agree, I am sure, that as important as safeguarding the solidity of the public bank, in this case, is to ensure the minimum conditions of transparency to parliamentary activity, not only for the credibility of the Assembly but, above all, to safeguard the duty of accountability to the people of this country. This effort of greater transparency on the part of the different institutions involved would make it more consistent and effective to conduct hearings and could have allowed a more enlightening report. It is true that the controversy, at the beginning of the Parliamentary Commission's installation on the limits of the object, did not help the progress of the work, because this object was subject to attempts to change during the investigation process, making it very unstable the course of the work under way and harming all the voting tasks and it is also relevant to point out the irrationality of the long period of operation of this Committee of Inquiry, which was the target of four suspensions and two extensions, making it necessary a whole year to hear less than 20 persons. It was in this framework that the work of this report was developed, which included contributions from the PS Parliamentary Groups, the PCP and the Left Block, which I take advantage of to thank, and which produced hundreds of conclusions. These conclusions were supported by the PS, the Left Block and the PCP, and had the vote against the PSD and the CDS. With all legitimacy, these parties, PSD and CDS, considered themselves unable to vote favourably on the conclusions such as the capitalisation of 2016, an essential fact which prompted the Parliamentary Commission for Inquiry, was a consequence of a recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box in 2012 realized by the minimum values ; the use of CoCo with high remuneration did not favour the restructuring of the Box ; the crisis of the subprime, which turned into a financial and economic crisis, deepened the non-compliance ; the expansionist policy of the ECB led to a reduction of interest and a fall in the financial margin; the deepening of regulatory requirements, with more capital needs; and, no less, the possible errors in the granting of credit.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u104	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u105	It was not demonstrated in the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry that the rational public interest of the participation of the General Deposit Box in some projects of public knowledge, such as La Seda or Vale de Lobo, nor was the total and adequate distancement of the General Deposit Box of some economic interests, as observed in operation Champalimud, BCP, among others.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u106	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u107	Mr. President, I am asking for some weight. The General Deposit Box failed to comply with the 2012 Capitalisation Plan, despite the guarantee of the Banco de Portugal, which the public bank had conditions to comply with. In conclusion, two final observations of my full responsibility. If new elements arise that allow for further scrutiny of the object of this Parliamentary Inquiry Commission, I believe that parties should initiate all mechanisms to ensure full clarification of the facts. I am also referring to the fact that the report submitted was implemented with the guarantee of the rigour, delivery and sense of responsibility with which I have faced this challenge. I am grateful for all the contributions and the collaboration that has been made. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u108	Mr President, the Bureau has been particularly tolerant because so far there are no entries from the other parliamentary groups to intervene. So we have also given time for parliamentary groups to consider signing up for participation, something that has not happened so far. [[Pause.]] Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD and the CDS continue to wish to make the number that they have made in the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the Recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box and the Bank's Management, in fact, following their tactic of transforming the Box into a party and political firearm, with the damage that it has suffered to the Box and to the institution Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u110	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u111	This damage is the sole responsibility of the PSD and the CDS, with emphasis on PSD due to its behaviour over the more than 12 months in which this Parliamentary Inquiry Commission worked, a period during which the PSD no longer did than try to use the Box, corrode its stability and weakens it, mixing at the same time the parliamentary figure of the investigation and the Assembly of the Republic itself. It was a sad stage that the PSD was doing by the Committee of Inquiry and has so far come, even through the intervention of its President, who I take advantage of to greet, to do exactly the same. Mrs. Members, the CFP has tabled a number of amendments to this report. In particular, I stress those related to the role of the various managements of the Box, the political responsibilities of PS, PSD and CDS over time in their management, the options and the political commitments assumed, but also the nature of the supervision and taxation of the European Union and European bodies, what we believe should be acts corresponding to national sovereignty, in particular as regards the conditions of capitalisation of the General Deposit Box. We cannot admit that the European Union imposes on the General Deposit Box conditions for recapitalisation. In other words, it imposes conditions on the shareholder of the General Deposit Box to recapitalize that it would never impose any private, harming the shareholder of the Box, which is the Portuguese State, the Portuguese Republic. The CFP presented these proposals so that they could be included in the report, showing the confrontation between European taxes and national interest, in particular as regards the stability of the financial system. Unfortunately, the report ended up not being approved by an administrative blow from the PSD, which tried to precipitate the vote, and ended up remaining only three points, points where, curiously, the CFP is revising and voting in favour. I shall finish, Mr President, by highlighting one of these three points, which states that the General Deposit Box should remain a public bank. Mrs. Members—and because the masks that fall also need to be remembered—the PSD voted against this point. The same PSD I was saying that, after all, I did not defend a private box is the one who votes against a point that says that the box should be public. And whoever votes against a public box wants a private box. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u112	Mrs. Members, the Bureau is still awaiting registration from the other parliamentary groups. With no registrations, the Bureau will, of course, decide to move on to the next point, since we cannot wait that long. [[Pause.]] Mr João Paulo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: My first words are to congratulate Mr Carlos Pereira, rapporteur of this Committee of Inquiry, who has done his work in a serious, committed and dialogueal manner in drawing up the report he has presented to the Commission. The PSD and the CDS used this Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry to attack the public capitalisation of the General Deposit Box, defending what they have always dreamed of doing, which is privatizing the Box. [[Congratulations from the PS and PCP MP Miguel Tiago.]] This permanent attack on Box as a public bank is motivated by ideological reasons and political tactics. For ideological reasons, because the right always had the old dream of privatizing a set of public assets, including the General Deposit Box. For reasons of political tactics, because the right realized that the capitalization and strengthening of the General Deposit Box would be an essential asset for the growth model of the current government. Since the arrival of Pedro Passos Coelho to the presidency of the PSD that the right manifested itself soon with the intention of privatizing the General Deposit Box. We therefore recall the statements by Pedro Passos Coelho that it was necessary to open the Box to private persons or to disperse part of the capital of the Stock Exchange. The former government, the PSD and the CDS did everything to weaken the Box and open it to private people. We recall the capitalization of 2012 and 2013, which was made by the regulatory minimums. They did not prepare the Box to urgently support small and medium-sized enterprises, did not prepare the Box for a prolonged recession. The State lent money to the General Deposit Box, having the former Government forced the Box to pay EUR 90 million of interest per year to the State, knowing that this would be a difficult task for the administrations of the General Deposit Box. This was the reason why the former cashier, Dr. Nogueira Leite, resigned because he did not believe in this capitalization process. The former government hid the problems of the Box in the same drawer that hid the problems of BANIF, for reasons of electoral agenda, the 2015 legislation, and also because it wanted to prove what was discovered, which had clay feet, which was the "clean exit". [[P.S.'s applause.]] The former government, as I said recently, did everything to weaken the General Deposit Box with the aim of privatizing. The greatest proof that the right is against the public capitalisation of the General Deposit Box is that it has not voted in favour of the rule of the State Budget for 2017 proposing the capitalisation of the General Deposit Box. The CDS abstained and the PSD voted against. in the report that was proposed to the Commission of Inquiry, the point presented that defended Caixa as a public bank had the votes against the PSD and the CDS. If the Box continues to be a public bank, it is due to the amendment of a parliamentary majority. It was this new parliamentary majority, a left-wing majority and a new government, which prevented the entry of privates into the General Deposit Box. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Nor can we forget that it was the success of the negotiations with Brussels and the unprecedented decision of the European institutions that allowed the public capitalization of the General Deposit Box, because a public and strong deposit box means the consolidation of the banking system and the financial system and are an essential asset and asset for the economic recovery and growth of our economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u114	Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This Committee of Inquiry has a history and obviously this story is not indifferent to the evaluation we make of its conclusion. But first of all, I wanted to make it clear that something was left out of the previous interventions here, both that of Mr João Paulo Correia and that of Mr Miguel Tiago. Mr. João Paulo Correia went on to defend something that is false and that has been repeatedly denied, insisting on a lie, which is to say that the CDS is in favour of privatizing the General Deposit Box. Sir, I will not waste my time saying that. Listen to what Mr Miguel Tiago has said — not even an opinion, it is factual — about the votes that have taken place in this House of the Republic. The CDS is not in favour of the privatisation of the General Deposit Box and with its vote it has demonstrated this, always voting in favour of everything that was deliberative in order to maintain the Public Deposit Box and we defend to what extent we wanted to maintain it. But Mr. João Paulo Correia likes to live in his illusion, he always brings his written speech, but he has to change the wording so that he can match the reality and be true. With regard to the Commission, there are two hypotheses: either we have a discussion of conclusions as if the Commission had been serious or we have denounced the farce that the majority here has raised. For us, it was very clear that what happened to this Committee of Inquiry was an imposition by the PS, PCP and BE parliamentary groups, a majority of silence, a majority of concealment and a majority of lies. What they have done was not to allow what the courts have validated as Parliament's powers to the end. I have with me the notification that this Parliament has received, from a declaration of unnecessary oversight of the deal, something which I myself had argued would happen when the report was discussed in the Commission, of course for those who recognized Parliament's powers to access the shame of the management of the Box for years— loans granted without any criteria, favours that were given to the public bank... [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very nice to say that we want the Box to be public, but then say everything, say that they want the Box to be public to fund your business, and that is not what we want. We don't want to! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] [[PS protests.]] If they wanted to say it wasn't true, they would let the courts perform their duties. The courts said we could access the information. We wanted to access the information and you ended up with the Commission. at the time when we were to receive the information and the credit granting processes due to lack of confidence in what they had been doing in the Box, you ended up with the Commission. What happened was shameful. Parliament has powers that are not powers of any majority, Parliament has powers that are of the rule of law, that are of democracy and that are of the voters who have trusted its vote in us. And you prevented not only that the people themselves had access to the information, but that others who were not available to compact with that concealment also did not have access to it. This is the black moment of Portuguese democracy, this is a shame of the Portuguese Parliament, it is an attack on democracy and an attack on the rule of law which cannot be the same for the whole Parliament, it must remain the signature of those who committed it. The PS, the PCP and BE betrayed the rule of law, betrayed representative democracy, covered dirty business with its concealment and will forever be responsible for it. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u116	What we just heard was a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u117	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I congratulate the rapporteur on his work in preparing the final report. I would like to say that, for this final report, the Left Block has also contributed decisively and has put forward more than 40 proposals. Therefore, we presented more than 40 proposals than the PSD and the CDS-PP, which did not present any. Although many things have now been verbalized, the PSD and the CDS have not even tabled amendments to the report. The BE therefore presented several proposals and did so because the explanation for the operational results of the General Deposit Box in recent years cannot be limited only to the ECB's subprime or monetary policy. It was necessary to make it explicit in the final report that there have been political, direct and clear interference in the management of the General Deposit Box during recent years. From the Champalimaud case to the sale of the Pinto & Sotto Mayor Bank to the BCP, which resulted in losses to the Box, from the obligation to alienate the insurance sector, from party appointments made to the General Deposit Box, from Celeste Cardona to Carlos Santos Ferreira, there was political interference in the General Deposit Box in recent years. And we have put forward more than 40 amendments also because of course there were management situations that had nothing to do with the public interest. I refer to the loans for the purchase of shares of the BCP, which in no way benefited the General Deposit Box and which ended with the President of the Box becoming President of the BCP. These are unclear situations and should be included in the final report. I also refer to the involvement of the General Business Deposit Box which had nothing to do with the public interest and which only benefited the so-called « private promoters », as in the Vale do Lobo case. I also refer to the use of the General Deposit Box as a resolution vehicle for the entire investment and business damage strategy in Spain. All of this should be included in the final report, all of which should be reported in the final report, but the PSD and the CDS-PP did not want to conclude any of this and led to these conclusions. But they also came to other conclusions, which said that the former government subcapitalized the Box and brought more problems to the Public Bank, which concluded that the former Government forced the Box to sell its insurance sector and that he knew since the end of 2014 that he needed more capital and did nothing. The PSD and CDS-PP have dropped all and any conclusions. They may have tried to prevent this Committee of Inquiry from concluding whatever it was, but the fact is that the facts are these and that neither the CDS-PP nor the PSD will be able to delete. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u119	Mr Carlos Costa Neves has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a bad time for the Assembly of the Republic, prevented from exercising the right, above all duty, to monitor decisions of the Government and of successive government administrations of the public bank. on the day conducive to all the answers, the opacity is seen and the disrespect is consumed by the most elementary prerogatives of the opposition. There is also an empty report, because the conclusions of the Committee of Inquiry were not even adopted due to the lack of appearance of Members of the Socialist Party. A report which does not exist is debated! Today Parliament should know what justified the massive recapitalisation of EUR 5000 million — money from the Portuguese — as well as whether this volume resulted from prior commitments with the administration of Antonio Domingues. Today, Parliament should know whether or not this need for capital was due to politically induced or fraudulent management acts. [[PSD applause.]] The Minister of Finance, the Administration of Box, the Parliamentary Groups of the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party did everything to boycott access to essential information. A systematic boycott, no disguise, no smell! over a year, everything was worth covering up commitments, hiding facts and avoiding the clearance of responsibilities, such was the fear of who governs what could be learned. It is in this context that the unpublished resignation of the then President of the Commission, José Matos Correia, who, with the rigor and dignity that are his stamp, justified it by the decisions of the left-wing parties which, and I quote, "(...) violate the law, are an obstacle to democracy and call into question the functioning of the Commission of Inquiry". I stress that the PSD Parliamentary Group attaches the greatest importance to the information which on 20 June 2017 the Court of Lisbon brought to the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry concerning: « (...) investigations of facts which are abstractly qualified as integrators of crimes of harmful management, provided for and punished by Article 235. the, paragraph 1, of the Penal Code (... ), adding that, once again, « (... ) a substantial part of the credits resulting in inequalities was granted from 2007 onwards. », i.e. in the time of such projects of potential national interest, the PINs. Do You Remember? In order to prevent access to essential information, the parties supporting the Government were at the point of precipitating the end of the Committee of Inquiry, even if judicial decisions were in transit, raised by the Commission itself and which were in favour of it, thus nullifying the role of the courts and Parliament, even calling into question the effectiveness of this and future parliamentary committees of inquiry. I should like to conclude by saying that in order to prevent this situation, we must, in line with the recommendations of all previous committees of inquiry, commit ourselves to the review of the Legal Regime of Parliamentary Investigations. The proposal remains, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u121	Mrs. Members, we have thus concluded our examination of the final report of the Parliamentary Committee of Inquiry into the Recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box and the Management of the Bank. We have come to the last point on our agenda today, which is to examine the annual report on equal opportunities for men and women at work, employment and vocational training, and it is three minutes for each parliamentary group and one and a half minutes for Mr Pan. For an intervention, Mrs Elza Pais has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: I begin by welcoming the Government for the presentation of this progress report on the situation of men and women at work, employment and vocational training. I also, of course, greet the ISCED (Commission on Equality in Labour and Employment), the ACT (Working Conditions Authority) and other entities for the extraordinary, rigorous and high quality of this report. We know that what is not measured is as if it did not exist and therefore this is a fundamental tool to know what has already been done, to know what has not yet been done, to correct imbalances and to continue to direct public policies to combat inequalities and discrimination at work. I would like to leave a first note to say that the situation of women at work is a reflection of the situation in the country. Thus, the recording of significant improvements in the lives of families results in significant improvements in the lives of women. Today, we have more than 56,500 employees than in 2015 and the unemployment rate has dropped significantly to 11, 4 %. We therefore welcome the government's wager in Portugal and its people's wager. But despite these significant improvements, some inequalities persist in some sectors, especially at wage level, where women now earn less than 16 % than men when they perform work of equal value, and this gap is certain to have decreased, and they gain less when they are more qualified, which does not mean that they should not be put on qualification, rather because, when they are qualified, they see their employment increased by two percentage points relative to men. I would also like to welcome the initiatives that the Government is promoting in this area and which will shortly be presented in this House. The second note is to take account of the policies of reconciliation between professional, family and personal life that are producing good effects. There are more men using these licences, including the exclusive parental leave of men, with a significant increase of more than 20 % compared to 2015, and a significant increase in these last 10 years of 34 %, i.e. there are 34 % men using this licence. We must therefore continue to invest in these policies so that women's careers are not harmed when they are absent from work to treat their children or older people. We must continue to invest in these policies so that this gap is not increased but can continue to be diminished.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u123	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u124	Finally, Mr President, with a final note, to say that this report proves, once again, that the Act of Parity for Enterprises will be useful and will be needed to strengthen political leadership and not only for women — I take advantage of all the women elected in these last elections. Finally, Mr President, I would like to welcome the ISCED's inspection activity, which has done much to underline and to give visibility to discrimination, and to say that equality is a structural area in the life of society and that the government's wager in equality is a bet on development and on people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u125	For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u126	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. and Mr. Members: Today we appreciate the report on the progress of equality between women and men at work, employment and vocational training for the year 2016. It should be noted here that this report shows the maintenance of a high rate of female participation in the labour market, a trend which has been observed over the last few years, with 48, 8 % for women and 51, 2 % for men. The rate of women employed with higher education also maintains the trend of recent years, increasing the rate of men's more than men's, and it is noteworthy that in 2016, last year, 60, 2 % of the population employed with higher education is female. The report also states that, despite the high rate of activity of women in the labour market, there are still asymmetries in the distribution of sectoral employment, with some slight progress in sectors with greater male dominance. The wage difference between men and women continued in 2016, with women taking around 80, 3 % of the average basic monthly remuneration of men. When considering wage inequalities according to qualification levels, it is observed, as in previous years, that the wage difference between men and women was lower at the base and higher at the top of the hierarchy. in the context of reconciling professional activity with family and personal life, the total number of hours of work continued to be higher for women than for men, persisting, Mrs and Mrs. Members, inequalities between men and women in the sharing of responsibilities in the provision of care and unpaid domestic work. The report we are discussing today shows that we still have a long way to go. We continue to have very significant asymmetries with timid progress that still reveal persistent inadequacies and inequalities between women and men at work and at work. in the case of wage inequality, despite the changes that have occurred, women continue to have average wages lower than men, a pattern that cannot fail to worry us. As we know, these matters, at the legal, national and international level, have long been resolved, but disparities in practice continue to exist. On the other hand, we also have relevant issues of disparities and professional segregation in different sectors traditionally with low feminization rates. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is urgent to correct these imbalances. It was in this sense that the PSD Parliamentary Group has already presented initiatives at the previous Legislative Session to combat wage inequalities between men and women and to promote greater transparency in corporate wage policy, in line with what has been approved by both the European Parliament and the European Commission. following the initiative of the PSD Parliamentary Group, the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 124 / 2017 was adopted in May 2017, which recommends that the Government take measures to eliminate wage inequalities between men and women of which we highlight : the obligation of the media and large private companies to undertake an analysis of wage differences between men and women ; the implementation of measures that diminish horizontal sex segregation in the professional sectors where it exists; and the intensification of supervisory actions with companies by the ACT, with a view to detecting the practice of unjustified wage differences. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are grateful that the Government effectively promotes the implementation of these measures so relevant and that they have been approved by this Parliament consensually. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u127	Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The annual report on equal opportunities between women and men at work, employment and vocational training, with data relating to the year 2016, confirms what the CFP has so often denounced: the realization of rights in law does not in itself mean the realization of these rights in life. from the law to life there is the reality felt every day at the workplace and characterized by the denial and non-compliance of rights enshrined in the Constitution: the right that equal work corresponds to equal pay; the right to the articulation of family, personal and professional life; and the right to employment with rights. in this report we highlight some data: wage disparities persist, taking women 80 % of the average monthly remuneration of men and the higher the professional qualification is the higher the wage disparity between men and women; the subjects related to working hours remain the main subjects of opinion and complaints in the Commission for Equality in Labour and Employment. in 2016, 1229 cases of non-renewal of contract of work were entered into ISCED the pregnant, puerpera and lactating woman, and on these there is no requirement for the opinion of ISCED. The CFP has proposals on this subject, in discussion of the speciality, in which we argue that the ISCED opinion on dismissal and non-renewal of employment contracts to pregnant, puerperous and lactating women is mandatory and binding. It is not enough for employers to inform the ISCED, it is urgent to ensure in these situations that the ISCED's mandatory and binding opinion is drawn up that the dismissal is not unlawful. It seems to us clearly insufficient that only 30 infringements and 140 warnings concerning equality and non-discrimination have been detected from a total of 36 000 inspections of the ACT. The lack of inspectors and other ACT and ISCED professionals cannot mean less supervision, they cannot mean the creation of better conditions to deny and disrespect workers' rights. It is urgent to guarantee all the missing inspectors, all the ISCED human resources that guarantee the effectiveness of law enforcement and respect for workers' rights. The CFP will continue to intervene and fight for equality to be a reality in law, but also in everyday life. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u129	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The report under review shows that a calm and convergence approach is being made with regard to the presence of women in the labour market, although still in a clear unfavorable position with regard to women. In 2016, although female employment growth has been more expressive, distribution is still favourable to the male gender with 51, 3 % versus 48, 7 % for women. The relative position of women in the labour market has also been improving, as a result of their increasing qualification, and this trend will tend to accentuate since, for example, the school dropout rate of girls is already equal to the target set for 2020 of 10 %, while for boys still at home of 17 %. Therefore, the labour market is responding well, although we can criticize the pace at which it does. As regards the gender pay gap, there is still, as has already been said, a great disparity, particularly in the upper categories, where women receive 72 % of men's wages. It's interesting to see why this disparity persists. One of the reasons why the report points out is the difficulty in reconciling work/ family. Women affect daily more than 1 hour and 40 minutes to domestic work and care for the family, and there are seven times more women than men living alone with dependent children. The CDS presented, in this Chamber, on May 5, 2016, a set of measures to promote birth that would indirectly affect employment equality. Several draft laws and draft resolutions, covering social benefits, taxation, employment, housing and formal support in early childhood, dropped, without a vote, to the Committee on Labour and Social Security and ended up being rejected by the left parties. There had been greater consensus and perhaps the data in this report could start to be different. It also deals with the report on the participation of women in decision-making places in the Public Administration, the business sector of the State ( EEA) and the private sector. It is noted that the Government — which has assumed gender equality as a programmatic measure, and indeed, has failed in its own House, since the Public Administration reflects the patterns of inequality in the labour market. Having chosen to start by imposing quotas on PSI 20 companies, perhaps now it was time to take care that the state should set the example and actually contribute. I shall finish with a note, on the margin, on the participation of women in local positions. Being still early to have the whole panorama, it is already possible to say that only 32 women were elected as camera presidents, plus 9 more than in 2013. In 308, it is a low number and in fact could not have been much higher, given that the two largest indigenous parties presented only between 13% and 14% of women candidates for the presidency. Maybe we parties can do better, too. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u131	For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u132	Mr. President, Mrs. State Secretary, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: I begin by welcoming this report which allows us to have a current reading of this reality and also a reading of the evolution of equality and inequalities between men and women at work, employment and vocational training. This report does not bring us much news about what we already knew, what we already know, and what we have been talking about in recent times on several occasions. We have a lower female employment rate than men. We have an even higher feminization rate in those traditionally female activities, such as the provision of care, health and education. We have a remarkable asymmetry between men and women in leadership and leadership positions with, of course, a large majority of men occupying these positions. We have the continuing differences in wages; despite the principle of 'equal work, equal pay', as reflected in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and also in the Labour Code, this disparity persists. We have the indication that — and again, we also know — the higher the wage inequality is, the greater the level of vocational training and school training, the more inequality exists. in this report there is a fact that is withdrawn, although it is not mentioned in it, and I call for it to be included in it, which has to do with the reforms. It is of concern that these disparities persist throughout life and then contribute to the formation of reforms, thus contributing to the persistence of inequality between men and women at this stage of life. in the European context, the disparity in retirement pensions between men and women is 39 %. The same is true of trade union associations, where men are always in greater representation than women in the Public Administration, in the decision-making places of the Public Administration, central, regional and local, in the business sector of the state and in the private sector. In this regard I would like to remind you that Law No 62 / 2017 of 1 August in its Article 13. the, provides for the Government's commitment to submit, until 31 December of this year, a bill defining the balanced representation regime between women and men, applying the minimum threshold of 40 % in direct and indirect administration of the State and in public higher education institutions, and the minimum threshold of 33, 3 % in public associations. This persistent under-representation of women in the instances of political power, in all these bodies, implies a level of guarantee of the political rights of women inferior to men, an obstacle to the effective guarantee and promotion of women's human rights and the realization of effective equality between men and women.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u133	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u134	I shall conclude, Mr President, with one final note, which is in relation to the reconciliation between professional activity and personal life. We know, and this report also tells us that women spend 1 hour and 40 minutes more per day than men in these activities, with children and dependent people, and these inequalities also affect women in a penal way. So we have a lot of work to do, we have to do more and better in this matter. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u135	Mr André Silva has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The inequality illudes us, turns us around, presents us with misleading indicators, dulls us with discernment. We cannot look at the inequality just ahead, and the annual report on equal opportunities between men and women at work, employment and vocational training proves this to us. The exercise is this: we cannot look at the qualification indicator without looking at the asymmetries of labour representation. We cannot look at the occupation of top positions without looking at wage differences. We cannot look at the active population without looking at unemployment. We cannot talk about professional activity without talking about family life and unpaid work and we cannot even look at the reality of work, employment and vocational training without looking at social conceptions about gender roles and representations. in the balance, among these indicators, we weigh men and women, and women are getting much more harmed. That is why our mission, as citizens and democratic representatives, cannot end when a percentage is improved or when a law is passed. We cannot even think about resting on equality. Our mission is to face inequality every day, discover all its angles and tricks and present concrete measures for its eradication. The NAP here assumes this commitment. We're waiting, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, that the data submitted by the Government in this report also serve to encourage the remaining partisan forces to work in this regard.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u137	For an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State for Employment, Miguel Cabrita, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Despite being enshrined in our Constitution, the right to equality between men and women, after so much progress, inequalities still persist in Portuguese society, from now on in the world of work and from then on in matters as fundamental as wages. With reference to the private sector, we know that for 10 years the gender pay gap was 18, 8 %. In 2015, this salary gap had declined only to 16, 7 % — an asymmetry still won and above all a slow progression. Moreover, when we look at Eurostat data, where we consider only companies with 10 or more workers, the wage gap is still 17, 8 % in 2015 and has increased even in the last decade. This example, and not just one example, well illustrates a reality. in the legal plane, both international and national, today we have instruments of greater relevance, but in practice we continue to have significant asymmetries between women and men, asymmetries at the level of business management, asymmetries at access to employment, asymmetries at yield. Asymmetries that also go through the private sphere and continue to call for the promotion of appropriate mechanisms for reconciling work and family life. And because these asymmetries persist, the need to actively promote equality between men and women is also a task of the State, which is enshrined in the Constitution. This report brings together a set of indicators to assess progress and blockades, with regard to gender equality in the labour market, under the coordination of the Commission on Equal Labour and Employment, a tripartite entity which has the specific and irreplaceable task of promoting equality and combating discrimination between men and women with all social partners. As has been the case since 2001, the report shows progress, but also the existence of significant inequalities between women and men that compromise the principles of equality, equity, meritocracy, central principles in democratic societies, and therefore justify the definition of public policies to put an end to the still existing differences in different areas. From then on, policies to promote equality between women and men in the employment market, to implement the constitutional principle of equal pay for equal work and equal value and to make more balanced representation of men in decision-making positions. The government is already taking concrete steps in these fronts. Very recently, on a proposal from the Government, in this House, the law establishing a system of greater balance between men and women in the administration and supervision bodies of entities in the public sector and not only of entities and companies listed in the stock market. in May we presented to the social partners a package of measures to promote wage equality between women and men for equal work or equal value provided by the same employer. After collecting the contributions of the social partners, the Government will continue this agenda and adopt a proposal for a law on this subject to submit to the Assembly of the Republic this year. These are concrete measures and steps. Steps in a broader strategy to promote equality between women and men. Above all, a strategy that requires a true social pact and a sound basis of information, for which the report presented today is a contribution, for better information from the public and, of course, for better decision-making by all political actors. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I conclude by saying that it is with the broad and committed support of this House that we are counting on further progress in this area, also in this House, and we are counting on women, men and equality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-03.u139	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the annual report on equal opportunities for men and women at work, employment and vocational training concluded our agenda today. The next plenary session will be held tomorrow at 3 p.m. with the 15th annual debate with the Prime Minister on housing policies under Article 224 ( a ) ( 2 ). the Rules of Procedure, thus the first intervention of the debate to the Prime Minister. The vote will follow at the end of the debate. To all and to all I thank your collaboration and wish to continue a good afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 36 minutes.]]
