ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, today's agenda has as its sole point the debate on appeal No 8/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — State reform and access to public services ( PSD ). To open the debate, Mr Hugo Soares of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Almost a year and a half after the beginning of the governance of the Socialist Party, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u3	We don't count?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u4	...it is time to confront the government with its own inaction. More than a year later, Portugal has already realized that it has a government without a vision of the future, I would even say a government of mere intent.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u5	Don't say!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u6	The country stopped and, when it's not stopped, it goes back. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u7	We have therefore called on the Government to Parliament today so that we can ask it the following: what a reform, what a structural measure, what a path they point to VV. Ex. for the future? What idea of the future do they have for Portugal? to immobilism and reformist disability, the Government of the PS, the Communist Party of Portugal and the Block of Left adds to the situation. Yes, today, more than ever, options are clear and crystal clear. In Portugal, there are those who just want to go back, who only think about their situation, their survival, who turn to look to the past and have no project for the future. That's the case with the left-wings, who lost the elections.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u8	Look at that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u9	I repeat : this is the case of the left, which do not have a common project to look at the future of Portugal ;... [[Protests of BE Members.]] ... the left ones, whose only project is not to allow a PSD government, even if it had been the one desired by the Portuguese; the left government, which, therefore, and as you see every day in this Parliament, rather than governing and reforming, more than explaining and justifying the government action, would object to opposition.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u10	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u11	It's an entertainment government! But in Portugal there are those who want to continue to reform the country, to undertake, to transform, to build a future and to build progress. They are those who see and think beyond the foam of the days; those who refuse to lower the level of political debate; those who do not live from sterile and ephemeral populisms; those who, like the PSD, take Portugal seriously. [[PS protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the former Government, even though through one of the biggest financial crises, if not the greatest, of our democracy, has launched a set of reforms that are the basis of the construction of a more just, freer society, but, above all, a more transparent and friendly state of the citizen. We wanted a state that positively distinguished families in the collection of taxes; you went back. We wanted a state that wanted to collect less taxes on businesses, create more wealth and more employment; you went back. [[Rice from PS MP Maria Augusta Santos.]] We wanted a state where people are chosen by merit and their capacity; you went back. We wanted a state where demand, rigor and competences were aimed at distinguishing the public school; you went back. [[Laughter of Members of the CFP.]] And we wanted a state that paid in time and hours and honored its commitments; you went back. In short, this is a retrograde government, unable to build on what has already been done. It is a government that, without any evaluation, only in a revenger logic,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u12	Look who's talking!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u13	... has only one objective: to undo the reforms that have already been made. But it's good to remember, it's good to remember that we did a lot more. We have freed the economy and the country from unjustified privileges, from excessive incomes, from the politicization of the bank. What about the current government? [[PS protests.]] We have reduced the number of foundations, extinguished civil governments, reformed justice and innovated in green taxation. What about the current government? We have halved the number of municipal companies, opened up more than 400 areas of the citizen. What about the current government? Yes, what we did was reform the state. Now, after success, where are the gentlemen? Members who screamed horrors, who did committees of inquiry against the privatization of the naval shipyards of Viana do Castelo? [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]] Where are the ladies now? Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when we reformed labour legislation and when we presented employment results and combating precariousness? Where are they? Where are the gentlemen? Members who said it was the end of the state when we extinguished civil governments? A year later, another year later, where are they? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, a year later, Mr. Members are where they have always been: in political atavism, imprisoned in the past...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u14	Arrested in the past? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u15	...and without an idea of the future. You are the same, they are the same who, today, in power, hide themselves from the future, but who in the past branded by the reform of the state. Well, they are the same, exactly the same ones who will come here today hide themselves before an apparent idea of decentralization as "a cornerstone of state reform" — we have already heard the conversation — even when it comes to this matter — even in this matter! — if you are proposing to do less than we have just done, even when we have already presented our proposal on this matter and you are still in the confident discussion. [[President. — The next item is the report (Doc.]] This is truly the government of the trusted conversation, it is the government of « look at what I say, do not look at what I do». [[PSD applause.]] They are the same that are powerless to reform, they are exactly the same that do not mobilize the country and the Portuguese for any idea of the future. The question arises again: what does the Government want for the future of Portugal? I will give you the answer: don't stop being a government! This is what interests the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u16	You wanted to be in the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u17	Little, very little, little for a country that deserves so much. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, your inaction, your day-to-day management, this prison in the past has a cost. When the state and administration are not reformed, the losers are the citizens. That is why public services reach the degree of degradation that we witness, so access to the most basic public services is worse. And, supreme irony of political rhetoric, the Government of the Left is even the enemy of public services! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS, BE and PCP rice.]] Truth of Truth: Today, the public school is worse; today, the National Health Service is worse;... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u18	... today, public transport services are worse; today, public security is worse. The services are worse and cost the Portuguese more and that is the price of a lack of reformist vision, it is indeed the cost of your past vision. But to make it even more clear, the paralysis that VV Ex.as voted for governance, the lack of public investment, which did not decrease so many decades ago, your captives, which are already a brand image, your blind cuts, the lack of strategic vision have as corollary: schools close because of lack of conditions and employees and school dropout; the National Health Service has serious problems of response since debt is increasing and service is worse; public transport with fewer careers, less options and more expensive and sometimes, even without paper to print tickets; security forces with less and less conditions and prisons in difficulty; public institutions and decentralised agencies of the state at hand and to cut into indispensable.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u19	That was before!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u20	Your governance, or lack of it, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members have as corollary a more expensive state, far away from the citizen and rendering worse service. Here is the summary of left-wing governance, one year later: a more expensive, less efficient state, far away from the citizen and rendering worse service. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is no international report from OECD to the European Commission, which does not enhance the set of reforms that the country has carried out between 2011 and 2015. There is no one who does not alert to the need to continue with the reformist momentum that came from behind, to build on what has been done, to launch a new wave of structural reforms capable of continuing to free our economy, but above all to serve the citizens better. The government, which is in prison to the situation of the left in Portugal, is limited to managing the tendency and popularity. Now it opens tribunals where no trial is made, it announces the linkage of more than 90 000 public officials, no one knows where, why or why—yes, without apparent criteria, without realizing with what rationality. But it's true, we're in the election year, and that's what matters. Instead of dynamizing the economy to generate wealth and create jobs, the government, your government, the Government of the Left states the employment to generate and manage electoral customers. The country needs an efficient administration, at the service of society and citizens. The PS, the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party want an Administration at the service of their political survival. What a small view of state affairs! Open... Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, I finish as I started. The PSD today calls on the Government to Parliament to be confronted: confronted with the announcements that remain but that do not change anything; confronted with the reversals and the scarcity of new achievements; confronted with the decrease in investment and stagnation of the economy, which grows almost a third of what is growing in Spain, Ireland or even Greece; confronted with the absence of a process of reform of the State which its supporters so much and so claimed. Cito :"There are people who stay in the history of people's history/ And others of whom we don't even remember the name. Do not keep on seeking. ” Make the Portuguese remember you, but for the good reasons! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u21	Mr. Hugo Soares, has exceeded the 10 minutes he had for his intervention in 2 minutes and 20 seconds, so I ask the services that do not have that time during the 18 minutes of discussion to which the PSD is entitled. For the second intervention at this stage of opening, Mr Under-Secretary-General Eduardo Cabrita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The reform of the State and the access to public services that the PSD understood to schedule as a topic for this appeal to the Government are essential themes of governance based on the principles of the quality of public service, subsidiarity and public policies that are friendly to economic development, social and territorial cohesion that promote a public administration that is close to the service of citizens and businesses. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Unfortunately, what we saw in the initial intervention was one of the worst moments of RTP Memory.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u23	No doubt!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u24	It was a moment of despair from those who have not yet realized why they are in opposition,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...because the people have given them a place, which is the right place and of which they are firmly convinced to keep them there. After four years of failure, of social recession, of attack on the rule of law, of eight corrective budgets, of successive declarations of unconstitutionality of budgets and of any structural measure of attack on the public function, of attack on the social functions of the state, the PSD proves that nothing has perceived the evil that it has done to the country, nothing has understood why it is today opposed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Nothing further discredits the reform of the State than it will transform it into a rapid report, gathering banalities « to see troika», into any PowerPoint to entertain conference or, even worse, into a demagogic weapon of party shooting. For a reformist and secular government like ours, reform of the State is not decreed by revolutionary edict of any savior of the homeland, nor is it revealed as a miracle of any creed, constitutes a continuous process of transformation of Portuguese society with the participation of all by a more just society, for more equity, for more quality of public service to promote a strong state, an intelligent state, a modern state. The Government rejects the revenue of which reform of the State is to reduce public services, without safeguarding the public interest,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... revenue from reducing the critical mass of the public sector or a path of deliberate and progressive privatization of the social functions of the State. The government defends a state that promotes participatory democracy, so we are the first country to have a national participatory budget, as we will promote education for citizenship in public education. We defend legislative quality and not quantity, so we are committed to simplifying and depolating legislation. The government is based in a different way of doing politics, reinforcing collaborative practices between the various government departments, in relation to the social partners, autonomous regions, local authorities, universities, civil society associations or NGOs (non-governmental organizations). With all those that the previous government put the country in place, we put the country into dialogue for development. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The enlarged debate is part of the preparation of reforms, such as evaluation of the economic and social impact and ongoing monitoring and evaluation. This is how Simplex + is how it is with the National Program for Territorial Cohesion, with the Capitalization program or with the National Reform Programme. For us, there are two fundamental pillars of State reform: on the one hand, simplification and administrative modernization; on the other hand, decentralization. They are two structural transformations in the way of developing public policies, which together contribute virtuously to an administration that helps citizens, that serves better the people, that does not complicate, that does not ask what you already know, that does not distrust the citizens, that cares about the innovative spirit of companies and that establishes a relationship of proximity, eyes, permanently open line and service to the citizens. The Simples programme, filed by the previous government, was resumed. It has already allowed a movement involving the entire Public Administration around 250 measures, publicly announced, to be scrutinized, and today have an average implementation rate of 62 %. You can the Portuguese, you can the gentlemen. Members already benefit from the electronic filling of the IRS; they may, by electronic means, request the renewal of the driving licence or benefit from the dematerialization of the generality of the licensing procedures. On the other hand, administrative decentralization is in fact the cornerstone of State reform, finally giving full compliance with the constitutional principles of local autonomy, subsidiarity and democratic decentralization of the Public Administration. at the end of 40 years on the first democratic elections for local authorities, it is not enough to praise the work of autarchs, which is important to break up with the status quo that places us as one of the most centralised countries in Europe. As Mr President of the Republic has repeatedly stated, we cannot waste the singular astral conjugation between sovereignty organs and autarchs in the sense of effective decentralization of competences to municipalities and to the parish. It is no longer acceptable for local authorities to be responsible for the management of 14 % of public revenue and for 46 % of public investment. from there the construction we want to build in the Assembly of the Republic of a spirit of convergence around the framework law of decentralization. We will also make an early preparation of the new framework for European cohesion policies for the period after 2020, more than sufficient justification for the democratisation of regional coordination committees by involving local authorities in the appointment of officials so that they have a decisive role in defining regional development priorities for the next round of European funds. All these profound structural transformations in the relationship of the Public Administration with the citizens make sense only to serve the people better, to have faster, more unburocratized governance and to have a close relationship. This requires a concerted strategy to raise access standards for the quality of public services. That's what we do in all areas. When we extend the network of shops of the citizen to tens of municipalities, in conjunction with local authorities, we serve better, on the inside and on the coast, we do not forget Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] When we reopen more than four dozen courts, we ensure that justice is at the service of all, especially in the interior regions. When we bet on primary health care and on reducing the number of Portuguese without a family doctor, we affirm the fundamental role of the National Health Service, a matrix of what are the achievements of Portuguese democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u26	So we can say that, at the end of 15 months, we achieved what never existed: the lowest ever number of Portuguese without a family doctor. They are today about 750 000 ; they were more than 1 million when we arrived at the government. We are not satisfied, we want more, we want better, but this is the way. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why we are committed to education, to the enhancement of education for all, to the extension of pre-school education to the age of three, but also to the requalification of schools, a public school of quality, equal opportunities, and not to the reduction of 80% of the investment in the requalification of schools by the previous government. There are already hundreds and a half of schools that, with the collaboration of the authorities, will enter the requalification, from north to south of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u27	What? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u28	We are also more secure with local security contracts and with the generalisation of proximity policing programmes. This transversality of administrative modernization and decentralisation demonstrates the coherence of a political strategy in all areas of governance and not a case strategy, based on the poor memory that the Portuguese have and which today have brought to mind. The defence of quality public services, accessibility, equality, administrative simplification, the modernisation of procedures, the elimination of useless acts, administrative decentralisation, are nuclear parts of a genuine and continuous process of State reform, to realize every day and not « to troika see», promoting better public finances, which now allow for further action. We defend more efficiency in the use of resources, an environment conducive to creativity, innovation, investment and the creation of decent jobs for all, because we have the lowest unemployment since the beginning of the international crisis and because we want to go further, with decent employment for all. This is a priority of the Government Programme and the National Reform Programme, to be developed with the social partners, with the local authorities and with civil society, finally, with the participation of all those who do not put themselves out of this national plan, for a better state at the service of all. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u29	As the Minister has also exceeded his intervention time by 1 minute and 46 seconds, I would ask the services to discount this excess during the time of the debate. We then move on to the stage of the debate. I'm aware that two Mrs have signed up. Members to request clarification from Mr Hugo Lopes Soares, whom I would like to ask how he wishes to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u30	Together.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u31	Of course, Mr. Deputies. Mr Porfirio Silva of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mr Hugo Soares, the PSD insists that you have won the elections.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u33	Ah...!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u34	I don't understand.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u35	Yeah, no! Why would it be? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u36	Your government has been destroyed in this Parliament. Where were the gentlemen? Did you miss it? Have you forgotten to vote? What's it like? [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is that your anti-parliamentary tic has had consequences with the prolongation of disrespect for the procedures adopted here in the Assembly of the Republic. [[PSD protests.]] Mr President, I would like to say the following: today we have seen an update of the 'Louis Montenegro theory'. We already knew the « Luís Montenegro 1 theory », which was: the country is better, although the Portuguese are not better. Now, we have the « Luís Montenegro 2 theory », which is: the Portuguese are better, the country is better, the PSD is that it has not yet understood and even wants to know. That's getting more and more serious! [[PSD protests.]] Unfortunately, Mr Hugo Soares has confirmed everything we could fear in terms of lack of focus. We were even happy to see that they wanted to discuss state reform and access to public services, but in fact, what we know is that the state reform that you have made became known for the size of the letter and for the spacing between the lines. That's all! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u37	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u38	But worse — because this would be only a serious defect in a document that was nothing, although it should have been — is the conception that you have of state reform, which is to cut salaries and cut rights of state servants. That is your conception of state reform! [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, yes, this parliamentary majority, the Socialist Party and this government do not go into this conversation. And they don't go for very practical reasons. You practically didn't talk about education. So let's talk about education. Mr Hugo Soares, this school year, we have more teachers in public school than we have ever had and you don't talk about it. Yeah, they don't care! what you liked was a school without teachers, a school that didn't have to pay the teachers and therefore don't even talk about it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u39	All right! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u40	But there are more: operational assistants. The gentlemen. Members, whose idea of the operation of public services we already realized what it was like — to cut into the rights of state servants, to cut into services — from time to time, they realize that they do not remember anything that happened in the past, and have even come here to ask by the operational assistants. So, Mr Hugo Soares, I will tell you: this government has mobilized the financial resources needed to hire 300 operational assistants. He set priorities, distributing them through the schools below the ratio, perhaps, you know what that is, because that's what they left! — and delegated to the groups of schools and schools the competitions and selection of these operators. This is being implemented, it is being implemented by schools, and you don't say anything because, perhaps, you're not interested. They thought it was best that there were no operational assistants in schools and that this was public service! [[PSD protests.]] But we can still ask other questions such as access to public services, for example, because access to public services is very concrete: facilities, requalification, improvement and modernization of schools. When we see, in winter, in schools, rain or broken glass, some PSD and CDS members think that degradation happened one day or another week, they forget about the past. But why did that start? It started for four years of disillusionment, started for four years of demobilization and disincentive in school. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Between 2002 and 2015, the fall in investment in the requalification, improvement and attachment of schools was more than 70 % ; in the years 2013 and 2014 « Moistro Crato » had an implementation rate of less than 50 % of the Community funds. This government has resumed its investment in public schools. Why didn't he start early? Well, we know that the State budget came into force only in April and that the budget implementation decree was published only in that month. But it could have started immediately. Why didn't it start immediately? Because you had not prepared anything: you had not made the diagnosis, had no contests or execution, had not made up your needs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] You not only had not invested, as if you had forgotten the need to invest. That's what we want to know. Mr Hugo Lopes Soares, why didn't you talk about this? After all, what is state reform? Is it just conversation? Is access to public services just a conversation? Specific answers are what we ask you to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u41	Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hugo Soares, I would like to congratulate you on bringing up an issue which I thought was important and relevant to the future of the country and which deserved serious and concrete questions from the Socialist Party. I now understand that, after all, the Minister...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u43	I've written that before, haven't I? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u44	Take it easy, Mr. Deputies. I'm still at the beginning. After all, the big national reform plan where is it? The Government presents itself here with a considerable number of governors, but neither the Minister responsible for the true national reform plan, the head of the Community funds Portugal 2020, is present, nor the Secretary of State. by the way, they want everything but to discuss the national reform plan and the Community funds, so important for the future of the country, which the Social Democratic Party brought here.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u45	How many times have they been discussed here? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u46	In fact, Mr Porfirio Silva, your governance is so solid, it is taking the country on such a strong path, on such a successful path that the truth has become the greatest of the dangers. It is necessary to protect the lie and ignore the truth and, when truth is no longer what must be part of the country's governance and life, it is all said about VV governance. Ex!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u48	Mr Hugo Soares, what should we get out of this governance and from what has happened? Clearly, it is not worth having illusions. There is no national reform plan, as I said — and well! — without a common vision. The problem is that the Left Block, the Greens Greens Ecology Party, PS and PCP do not have the same view, they do not have the same idea of the country, and it is not now. That is why when, in this Parliament — where they say they base their governance — an attempt was made to set up a committee to assess the reform of the state, the left has not appointed Members.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u49	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u50	At that time they did not want to debate the reform, but they really wanted to make a national plan for revisions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u51	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u52	That's what's on your agenda, and that's what they always wanted to do. That is why, still yesterday, the European Commission pointed out that only in the case of public undertakings was everything to be done, that there had been regression, that it is still where most of the debt is, that nothing had been done and even instigated to make a more ambitious reform plan. Mr. Hugo Soares, I ask what you say about this. There is, in fact, a national reform plan, with 139 measures, being completed 12...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u53	Doze! Doze!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u54	... and I would like to know, after all, what happened to the appreciation of the territory, how many measures are finished, what is happening today, in particular, about the capitalisation of companies and what is happening to the reform of IRC, that, yes, consensual, which helped the economy to create jobs and what was to be done because the PS went back with the word and why the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens, obviously, never gave consensus to a measure of this.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u55	I should congratulate you on that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u56	That's why I say today is the ideal day for us to figure out where we're going. The path we are taking is only and only the maintenance of the government, it is only and only the show of politics, hiding those who are the real problems of the country and making the accounting policy, which is lack of financing of the economy, lack of investment, lack of economic growth, lack of quality public services. Have you noticed that the levels of complaint in public services have increased exponentially during the governance of VV Ex.as, which they said they were all going to improve?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u57	You've locked us up! That's why they had no complaints!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u58	I therefore say, Mr, that it is important that we center the debate on what is essential. And the essential thing is to know, as you asked—and well! —, where the country walks. Believe that only these two sides, the CDS and the PSD, are capable of truly reformist. [[PS protests.]] If there were serious reforms, they are done by the PSD and the CDS. With the parties of the governmental majority and with this government, what there is is politics of accounting and lying. The government has come to protect the lie rather than the policy of truth. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u59	To respond to the two requests for clarification, Mr Hugo Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Porfirio Silva and Mr Hélder Amaral, I begin by thanking you for the questions that have raised me. Before you answer to the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to Mr. Under-Secretary-General that, by chance, I am used to seeing RTP Memory and the image that I see most is you, as a member of the government, next to the Eng Socrates leading the country to bankruptcy. This is an image that marks not only this bench, but all Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]] That's your resume, Minister : to be next to Eng.o Socrates in RTP Memory, to the low degree of all Portuguese, leading the country to bankruptcy. [[PS protests.]] Mr Porfirio Silva, I will respond not to your questions but to your considerations, because concrete questions have left none.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u61	Aren't you? You didn't even hear the questions!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u62	I must tell you, Mr, that it was very clear what is the vision of reform of the state that the Socialist Party and you have. You were able to talk about 5 minutes about education and did not talk about the students once,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u63	Aren't you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u64	...but he said that state reform in education is to fatten the state, it is to hire more people. That's what you came here to say.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u65	So there are more teachers to fatten the state? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u66	For you, state reform was the megalomanian schools of the School Park — that we all continue to pay! — and it is to fatten the State with more teachers and more operational assistants, which may be necessary. I ask you and the government : have you already reflected on what are today, in 2017, the essential functions of the State, where should the State really be? Have you already made this diagnosis, because, yes, it was then compatible with looking, for example, for public employment and realizing where more or less employees were needed? But you don't have that problem. You don't discuss state reform, you discuss cosmetic operations: it's the front office, it's the Simplex, and they also talk like no one in such reliable talk about decentralization. Mr Minister, on decentralization, I believe that you are able to do more than anything. Try to understand yourself with the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party in this matter. We have already realized that you are closer to the CFP and the Left Block than to renegotiating debt than to decentralisation, but they present anything. You have been announcing a package on decentralization for six months — we have already presented ours — and you have not yet said anything about it. You are here today to be confronted and the government to be questioned and I, in answer to the questions — which you have had nothing — ask the Minister if he has already looked at the PSD proposals. Do you have anything to say about the proposals on decentralization that the only party in Portugal presented in this Parliament? I would like to ask you for some consideration on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u67	He didn't answer anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u68	Mr Hélder Amaral, thanking you again for your questions, I must say that it is true that the left-wing benches do not want to reform the state, they do not know what that is. They believe that reforming the state is, I repeat, cosmetic operations. It is the Simplex... Now, Minister of the Presidency and Administrative Modernization, let me tell you that, with regard to the Simplex, of the measures proposed for 2016 and half are to be concluded. Therefore, Mr. Hélder Amaral, we already knew what we would count on in this debate, but it was worth it to point it out to the government. Today we are aware that the Government of Portugal — the Government of the CFP, the Left Block, the Greens Ecological Party and the Socialist Party — feels that the State needs no reform; of what the State needs is to fatten, what the State needs is more debt and thus cause chaos in public services. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u69	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have made requests for clarification to Mr Deputy Minister. I'm aware you've signed up for 10 gentlemen. President. — The next item is the report (Doc. President. — The next item is the report (Doc. Ladies and gentlemen. I would begin by giving the floor to the first group, the first of which is Mr Amadeu Alberbergaria, of the PSD Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, Mr Deputy Minister, in education the Government that Mr Minister is part of represents the backwardness of the good results of the Portuguese education system. [[Mr. P. João Galamba's laughs.]] It is tragic for our collective future that the lack of common sense, which the submission to a radical agenda, which the incompetence of an Education Minister can destroy in just 15 months. for the first time in more than 10 years, the early school dropout rate did not decline, increased. The reasons are in everyone's view, but they prefer to make excuses instead of correcting the mistakes they have made.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u71	Tell me who they are!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u72	Let's go to those reasons. In 15 months, they had less than 2000 registered in dual-certification offers and less 8000 covered in vocational education. How do you justify this breakdown of students covered by these offers? Within 15 months, the breakdown in adult qualification was less than 50 % compared to 2015. Why did this happen? Are you going to announce, once again, the Qualifica program? In 15 months, while educational communities asked for more stability, more autonomy and more resources, this new time gave them more instability, more centralism and less resources.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u73	That is not what educational communities say!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u74	News of closed schools arrives every day due to lack of conditions. What answer does Mr. Minister have for these schools,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u75	Where did you go in the last legislature, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u76	... those which are not covered by Community funds that announce again and again, as if each advertisement was not always talking about the same money, seeking to deceive schools in this way? Every day news of the lack of operational assistants arrives and we see schools closed for that reason. How many employees does the Ministry of Education still hire this school year? Two final questions: what is the Government's position on radical left proposals on the school management and administration model? It will give in to the claim of communists and bloggers who classify directors as Napoleonic dictators...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u77	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u78	... or will you support the establishment of qualified leadership capable of applying the growing autonomy that is intended? Minister, our 4th students. the year had the best results ever in mathematics and the results in the PISA (Program for International Student Assessment) were historically positive. What does the Ministry do protected by the PCP, the Left Block and the FENPROP? Announces fewer hours for Portuguese and fewer hours for Mathematics. Does this make any sense to you, Minister? You mean what? Back to the tail of international rankings? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u79	Mr Pedro Soares, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u80	Mr. President, Deputy Minister, the issue of State reform and access to public services is of paramount importance, as is obvious. We know the difficulties that exist in many public services, we also know that, if the right had maintained in the government, these difficulties would be often greater, with all the policy that had been followed by impoverishment and de-investment in public services. But we are not surprised at the fact that the party that brings this issue to the debate in Parliament has made an intervention of which we have not managed to retain a single reformist element, a single element which is aimed at reforming the state, bringing citizens closer together, improving public services. There is no single element that can make us proud that this issue, brought by this party to Parliament's debate, actually gives rise to a debate, to an advance, to progress on this issue. The reformist spirit that the right has used us over several years was towards the impoverishment of Portuguese, the impoverishment of the country, the reduction of investment in the social state, education, the National Health Service and, therefore, we understand the enormous difficulties that Mr Hugo Lopes Soares has when he intervenes in this matter. We are no longer even talking about Mr Hélder Amaral, who, when he speaks of state reform, immediately appears to him a kind of hashtag in his head to say « decrease in IRC ». The only issue the CDS can think of in terms of state reform is the decrease in IRC. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u81	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the most interesting element that the Government Programme has in relation to State reform and decentralization is the direct election of the bodies of the Metropolitan Areas of Lisbon and Porto. But, precisely when this debate is triggered, a cry is raised on the right, a cry arises in the PSD, against the election of the organs of the metropolitan areas and even with an argument that might also be interesting, which is that this creates a situation of inequality with the rest of the territory, because the rest of the territory would not have that election of the supra-municipal organs. The problem is that, by the voice of the PSD, there is not a single will that there is also a direct election of territorial administration organs in the rest of the country. This means that they also do not want for the metropolitan areas, nor for the rest of the country, their decentralization, which is not based on the election of organs with legitimacy proper for the administration of the territory, which is to maintain what happens now, which is centralization, which is the powers all concentrated in the central administration. Therefore, they have no real vision of decentralization, and this is regrettable. We believe that the election of metropolitan bodies would be a very important element in decentralization, which would bring citizens closer together, which would give citizens greater decision-making capacity in terms of the administration of their territory. That is why we ask the Minister: in relation to the decentralization that is envisaged and that the Council of Ministers recently approved for the municipalities, does it ensure that the universality of the functions of the social state is not at stake in this process of decentralization? Mr Minister, do you ensure that this process of decentralization for municipalities does not give rise to a wave of privatization, outsourcing of public functions? Mr Minister, do you guarantee that in this process of decentralisation, the French will acquire new local competences and that they will be strengthened their autonomy? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u82	To conclude this first group of requests for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, I heard about a reformist government here and, if there were any doubts about what this means, the IMF helps, because...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u84	Always bad-advised!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u85	... in a report released this Wednesday it is said that the Portuguese Government is confident of the ability to meet the 2016 budgetary targets thanks to a strategy that will continue to freeze part of the ministry budget. The Government stresses the success of its efforts to control the 2016 expenditure through this freeze and plans to continue this approach in 2017. Therefore, if there were any doubts, the reform of the State is equal to captivating.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u86	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u87	To make the thing more tangible, I bring here some examples in the area of education, which is an area that is particularly expensive to me. The parents of the students who benefit from the School Social Action are still waiting for the money of the manuals,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u88	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u89	...and we're in February, six months after we started school year. The State captured 2 million euros from CENFIM's budget, which is the Centre for Vocational Training in Metallurgical and Metallurgical Industry, preventing this Centre from opening new classes for young and unemployed people, which may in part help explain the problem of early school dropout being increasing.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u90	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u91	For example, you don't like exams, but now they're going to the point of forcing students to pay for tests that are mandatory. When they talk about the participatory budget of schools, the State grants €1 per student, but when the state needs to finance itself with families, then it has a shared budget of €3 per student. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u92	There are more: in higher education, in February, in the second semester, there are more than 13 000 students waiting for their Social Action Scholarship,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u93	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u94	... and this at a time when the government says it is fighting school dropout in higher education to meet the objectives of Portugal 2020. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u95	As for science, 2016 will stay for history as the year in which they were assigned zero — zero! — scholarships for doctors and post-doctoral students.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u96	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u97	I would like to ask the Minister and the Members. State Secretary of State : is this what it is to return income to individuals and institutions or is this actually the price to be paid for the return of that income? Is this what improving public service means? Is this what you call state reform, or is this just cutting the state? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u98	To answer this set of questions, I have the floor of Mr. Under-Secretary-General Eduardo Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u99	Mr President, I am grateful for the questions that have been raised at this stage of the debate by the honourable Members. Mr Ana Rita Bessa, Mr Amadeu Soares Alberbergaria and Mr Pedro Soares, but, until I have been asked to some extent, I cannot help but take a preliminary look at how the PSD put this debate and resumed it, through Mr Hugo Lopes Soares in his reply to the questions put by other banks. For us, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the reform of the state is an essential issue, because it represents a transformation of the structures of Portuguese society, putting them at the service of the citizens, increasing the quality of public service, promoting proximity, decentralization, the relationship with the social partners, with civil society, all involving a transformation effort. This is a serious issue for which we are deeply mobilized. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The defence of public service, public school for all, equal opportunities, the National Health Service, access to justice and security are essential elements of public policies and that is why we came here, that is why the government is available and mobilized to work with the country and to discuss openly with all the banks in the Assembly of the Republic. I confess that I know the PSD is passing black days! I know that despair, resuscitation, irritation and hatred for the success of the Portuguese people puts the PSD today in a situation of true despair! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Who made eight corrective budgets, who failed each year in its objectives does not accept that it was possible to return income to public service workers, which was possible to increase the minimum wage, return the pensions that were withdrawn from the Constitution. After four years of social breakdown, of real struggle against the rule of law and social policies, it does not accept that it is possible to restore income, distribute it more fairly, have the best budgetary result for more than four decades of democracy, have the economy growing above the European Union average in 2. the 2016 semester, having the financial system — a disaster that has been hidden for reasons of economic strategy and for reasons of political and electoral manipulation by the PSD Government —, the banking system, today on the way to being able to perform its function again, returning to it, to support the economy. For all this, the PSD lives in a state of true denial and lack of capacity to recognize that it is this set of actions, which correspond to the creation of a pact of trust with Portuguese, with businesses and with local authorities, which allows the Portuguese to say, in all public investigations, that confidence indicators have been at the highest level for more than a decade. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These are the indicators that still do not satisfy us, because if we want to make a profound reform of the state, we need to go further. Mr. Amadeu Soares Alberbergaria, who had the opportunity to ask questions about the area of education, besides what was the attempt to use some sound bits, which are not popes that scare the Portuguese, who respond to them with the tranquility of their work and their results, yes, Mr. Member, record that the school year opened in time and hours with teachers placed in all schools in the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yes, honourable Member, I note that schools work today in an environment of peace, in an environment of involvement in what is their educational task and which is recognized by all, from the confederations of parents to the associations of leaders of educational groupings and also teachers' unions, because — and I know they have bad will — all trade unions and all representatives of the educational community are partners in this development process. That's why we want even better results, we want a public school that still exceeds one path that has been coming for many years and that the PISA (Program for International Student Assessment) has recognized. That is also why, on the abandonment of schools, which led to shame, such as the John de Barros school, my electoral circle, or the Amarante school, where works left in the middle were interrupted, the situation today is different, investments were resumed and, at the moment, agreements are concluded with 145 authorities from all political areas — all of them! — and many of them are of the PSD, of course, that in partnership with the government will actively contribute to the quality of schools. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa of the disaster that was the relationship with science, the relationship with science and higher education was restored.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u100	Look at that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u101	This pact for development and the bet on knowledge are crucial here. We therefore regulated the situation of the pockets, which had a long time ago a situation that was to be resolved, giving them a picture of stability in their activity. 1200 scholarships were awarded: 800 doctoral courses and 400 post-doctoral courses.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u102	In 2016 it was zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u103	That's the truth.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u104	Half-truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u105	...that the scientific community, which I meet inside—from the Polytechnic Institute of Bragança to the University of Tres-os-Montes and Alto Douro, where I have been this week, and even that of the University of Évora—tells me all over the country. Mr Soares, this pact of trust is based on a unique role of local power, which is not worth praising and then mistreating, detaching and asserting a position of distrust. This confidence pact is based on a policy of decentralization in which universality, i.e. ensuring equal access to competences with adequate resources, is an essential component. Decentralisation does not aim to destroy public policies; on the contrary, it aims to ensure that, in a proximity dimension, they are exercised with greater efficiency, with that dimension that only the local level allows, in which the autarchs, both of the parish and of the municipality, have a relationship that allows for synergy of sports, cultural equipment, libraries, schools and that, in dialogue with the educational community, with local cultural agents, with the sports clubs, with the local living forces, contribute to a transformation in the sense of deepening democracy. Therefore, we propose: for the new competences and an extended action; for the municipalities, truly, a proximity strategy based on the trust of whom, once again, in 2016, proved that it manages well the public resources, reducing debt, having positive balances, but, above all, serving better the populations that elected them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u106	We entered the second group of requests for clarification. You have the floor on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ana Mesquita.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Here we spoke of vision and future clarity, which allows us to revisit a document that shaped the future vision of the PSD and the CDS, the so-called script of the state reform of the authorship of Paulo Portas. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u108	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u109	This document was a true script for the destruction of public rights and services by the former PSD/CDS Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u110	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u111	And what did they do on that agenda for the future of education, for example? Marketing, decharacterization, privatization of public school. Otherwise, let us see — and here I will recall what they propose: to launch public contests in order to make real school concessions; to establish the so-called "independent schools of property and management..."
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u112	Private!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u113	Private, yes!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u114	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u115	They also proposed a new cycle of association contracts and a more competitive form between the public and the private; the deepening of dual education.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u116	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u117	This is what they actually served in this memory card for all Portuguese. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u118	Opportunity and memory! [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u119	Mrs. Government members, for the CFP, a modern state is, above all, not this card that we have mentioned here but a State that effectively respects and responds to the rights of citizens. On the initiative and with the contribution of the CFP, important measures have been adopted within the State budget, but not only, which allow for an effective way of valuing the public school and also of responding to the many concrete problems that arise in the day-to-day of our schools. Mr Minister, it is necessary to comply with these measures, it is necessary to know when they will be implemented and we, CFP, also want to know that other measures are taken by the government to value teachers, non-teachers, to promote school success and to develop a policy of true investment in public school. The CFP considers that, in fact, the path must go here in order to fully train the individual provided to the students, but also in the fulfilment of the rights of those who work in public school and who every day provide this model of fundamental development for the country, which is the public school. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u120	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u121	Mr President, Mr Minister, who attended the beginning of this debate and therefore who heard Mr. PSD Member Hugo Soares, in his initial speech, would certainly be confused or even confused with the question of interpellation and might even be led to think that the subject of the inquiry to the government that the PSD dealt with was not about public services but about reliable conversation. Certainly a lot of people would have to think that. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]] But, in fact, even if it may not seem, until the PSD did not even make a reference to the difficulties of Portuguese in accessing public services, the issue is even about the access of Portuguese to public services. And this debate will actually allow us to have a discussion about the need to strengthen the quality of public services, but it may also serve to make an assessment of the consequences of the policies and options of the PSD/CDS government, which are still felt today at the level of access to public services, because when we talk about access to public services it is necessary to keep in mind that the PSD has led the Government that has most weakened public services. It is important not to lose sight of the fact that the PSD led the government that will remain for history as the government that has not even managed to hide its aversion to everything that was public. And finally it is useful to remember that the PSD led a government that looked disdainfully at the social functions of the State. I am certainly not giving any novelty, nor is that my purpose, I am just reminding some elements whose reference seems timely when we talk about access to public services. It is true that public services are very fragile with the lack of people and with the lack of technical means, but it is also true that the situation has been greatly aggravated by the passage of the PSD/CDS government by the country's destinations. The responsibility of the previous government in the situation that is created is much, especially if we take into account that between 2011 and 2015 the PSD/CDS Government destroyed about 78 000 jobs in the Public Administration and that is also why public services are as they are today. In view of this framework, Mr Minister, measures are required to ensure the continuity of the provision of public services essential to the people and to ensure the effectiveness of the principle of universality of these services. But, Mr Minister, when we talk about public services, we also talk about decentralization and, in our view, any decentralization should aim at defending and valuing the autonomy of local power always in the perspective of improving the response to the needs of the people and promoting the quality of public services provided to the citizens. But decentralisation cannot also be seen as a way of decentralising the state of its functions, nor can it even happen because the State does not want or cannot respond to what it intends to decentralize, and what we think is that the delivery of the management of the protected areas to the authorities does not happen because it will be better for the preservation of protected areas but because the various governments that have ruled us have no desire to look at the protected areas with eyes to see. And, therefore, it is the easiest thing to do: it is transferred to the management of the authorities. And, in this case, even with an aggravating, because we are talking about responsibilities that the authorities cannot, nor should they assume under the risk of losing their unified nature, the national overall vision that must be underlying policies for protected areas. However, this does not contradict what the Greens are advocating, with regard to the need to involve authorities, associations and even populations in decisions on the management of protected areas. No, everyone should be involved in this management, but from there transferring management to the authorities goes a very large distance and, in our perspective, it will not be good for the preservation of protected areas, precisely because we are at risk of losing this global vision, this uniform idea that must preside over the management of protected areas. So, Minister, the question I leave you with is this: does it not seem to you that this claim, going forward, makes us lose the unified vision, the global and national vision that must be present in the policies for protected areas? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u122	To conclude this second group of requests for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Berta Cabral.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u123	Mr President, the Minister has brought us here once again a statement of intent on decentralization of competences and the fact is that we are still awaiting the entry of the proposal for decentralization, of the framework law, as Mr Minister says, in this Parliament. I can't help telling you that we've lost a year in conversation, but now in the year of elections, it seems like this is going to be the case. I have to tell you that, at the risk of this issue, the government will be instrumentalized in the year of autarchic elections, however, we consider it to be worth it. More: welcome club! It's never too late! Before late than ever! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u124	We have been talking about decentralization for decades and the Minister knows very well about this, and he also knows why the matter never goes forward. It is necessary to provide means — financial means and material means — so that authorities can effectively exercise the powers they wish to be transferred. And the truth — and the truth must be said in this Parliament — is that it was the PSD/CDS Government in the previous legislature which, by delegation of powers and by inter-administrative contracts, effectively delegated powers to the authorities and provided them with the means necessary for them to exercise them. They were successful experiences, which were important to resume, deepen and extend. In fact, the PSD has so far been the only party to present concrete proposals in this Assembly of the Republic — draft laws and draft resolutions — aimed at decentralization and delegation of competence in local authorities. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u125	This is an unforgettable reality, just consult the Member's Portal. In this connection, Mr Minister, I would like to reiterate what you already know: the PSD is waiting for the government's proposals and also waiting for the government's availability to find a legislative framework in committee that solves the problem of authorities, the problem of central administration and, above all, serving Portugal and Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u126	If so, we will be here to be constructive and responsible, as we have always been, and to take this reform further than we have done before, but the truth is that we were the only ones to do so in the last government. So we want to deepen this reform, we want to extend it and we are available for it. But there is another situation that has to do with the restructuring of the concentrated services of the State, and on this the Minister also knows our position: we do not follow him, we do not accept him to place the autarchs on the dependence of the ministers, transforming them into mere administrative agents, electing executive councils, who will then respond functionally, administratively and financially to the central State. So the question I leave is the following: does he consider revising his proposal on the restructuring of the CCDRs (coordination and regional development committees) as presented and in accordance with the terms in which he presented it? And if I do not, I ask you directly: do you have the support of the left for this reform? Or do you want to create another TSU and a Carris? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u127	It has now been mentioned by Mr José Luís Ferreira that at least some ministers are announcing decentralization beyond the decentralization strategy that the Minister has announced. Question : do you not feel unauthorized with these transfers from the Minister of the Environment, of course, that you want to give the authorities the management of protected areas? Don't you feel unauthorized? What is the Government's strategy in this area? Is it one or every minister who has his or her agenda? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u128	In reply, Mr. Under-Secretary-General Eduardo Cabrito has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u129	Mr President, I greet Mrs Ana Mesquita and the Members. Members who have asked me questions at this stage. Mrs Ana Mesquita, very briefly, I recognize that is the very constructive and positive contribution of the CFP to the solutions that improve the quality of public school, enshrined in the State budget and which, we guarantee, will be fully implemented. This is our principle, so it was with the 2016 State Budget and so it will be in 2017. But in 2017, in this area we are already taking significant steps, and I will say only two in the area of education, certainly continuing the debate in this area in greater depth one day. One of them is the work already done and that has allowed the extraordinary linkage of more than 3000 teachers, and this contributes to stability, security and quality in schools. The second step, because I think it will be fully innovative, is the decision that the Government has taken to open a new recruitment group of Portuguese language teachers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is a subject that has been discussed for a long time and I would like here to provide an example of the deepening of the quality of public service in the area of education. Mr. José Luís Ferreira, we want effective management of what everyone belongs to, and what happened to the protected areas, yes, in recent years was the total deresponsibility of the State, total abandonment, total degradation of a policy of protected areas that were fully abandoned. What the Government is proposing in this area, in full cooperation, Mrs Berta Cabral — speaking here with all the will on behalf of the Government on this subject — is that the State retains full responsibility and that the municipalities be called to participate, having a word to say, because the protected areas are not national areas in which the authorities have nothing to say. I am, as you know, from the region of Setúbal, a member elected by this circle, and I have no doubt that the management of the Natural Park of Arrábida will have everything to gain with a more active intervention from the municipalities of Setúbal, Palmela and Sesimbra, in its management. I trust that, I know that, in connection with the state, they will do better than the current state of abandonment. Mrs Berta Cabral, in a government that has someone who has been, for eight years, President of the City Council of Lisbon and who has strengthened what were always convictions and that we all share here, what we are firmly convinced is that we want to deepen decentralisation this time. And we are doing what we have already done with regard to transport, both from the port and from Lisbon, and with what we have done with the decentralization of competences for municipal police in Lisbon or in the port. It is a global path, it is a path that involves all areas of government and that is why these issues are at the centre of government. The PSD is welcome with its proposals, they are all welcome, and I am counting on the participation of all the benches so that in the coming weeks, history will be done, as Mrs Deputy says, this time seriously decentralize. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u130	Mrs. Members, in order to initiate the third group of requests for clarification, have the floor of Mr João Vasconcelos.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not surprising that the PSD has come to this House, to boast of the reforms it has made in the past. In fact, what the PSD and CDS have done, in recent years, were genuine counter-reforms. Who doesn't remember, for example, thousands of people who left the country every year? It was over 100,000 people who left. Who doesn't remember unemployment, which reached almost 20%? Who does not remember, for example, the precariousness of those reforms that have led to genuine modern slaves, with thousands of people taking it up about 80 € per month? [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] 500 years ago Duarte Pacheco Pereira said that the experience is the mother of all things and that by it we know the truth radically. And the truth, indeed, is what the PSD has brought us from the past. As far as reform is concerned, perhaps that which can be boasted will be the reform of the parish, the famous reform of Mr Relvas' territorial administrative reorganisation, in which a government has eliminated, the rule and framework, more than 1000 of the parish, at national level, to the wake of all, of people, of the city halls, of citizens. In fact, this is a black knot that PSD and CDS cannot boast. In fact, and now in the Government Programme we have a model that, in order to be balanced, to be territorially coherent, should be based on five regions of planning and territorial development, such as the CCDRs, the establishment of metropolitan authorities, the promotion of inter-municipal cooperation and the affirmation of bridges, as well as proximity poles. The Left Block believes that, in relation to the parish, there was indeed a retreat here for, until the forthcoming elections, there was no reversal of some parish that were extinguished during the PSD/CDS government. Another retreat, which we also think there is, and which, here, has already been spoken, has to do with the institution of the metropolitan areas as metropolitan authorities. In fact, what we should be discussing was actually regionalisation, because there is no serious decentralisation without regionalisation. But if the PSD already puts so many obstacles in the institution of metropolitan authorities, imagine what it would be if we were here talking about regionalization. We understand that it is regionalization that enables the bureaucratic centralism of administration to be overcome, to bring the power of citizens closer together, to contribute to combat regional asymmetries and to improve the quality of life. This is where I want to focus on asking the questions to the Minister. Given that we are going to have the institution of the metropolitan areas, but that they will not move forward by the time, Mr Minister, the institution of these metropolitan areas? In view of the constitution of these metropolitan areas and the revision of the CCDR organic, for which the Left Block is against, does he not consider that we would not have a two-speed country here? That is, we would have more developed regions, such as Porto and Lisbon, with metropolitan authorities and the rest of the country with CCDR elected not directly by the citizens. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u132	Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u133	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, in fact, it is recognized by all that, this year and the means of governance, there has been a dramatic reduction in public investment by this government, and that unfortunately the health area has not been excluded. And therefore it remains not a priority for this government. We did not have good news, Minister, because the value of the 2017 budget allocation is ultimately below the 2016 register. Overwhelmed, which was, the serious period of financial assistance, the fact is that this government contributes largely to underfunding in health. In view of this, I would like to ask you a number of questions, which are even focused on the shortness of time I have available. In 2016, total debt to the pharmaceutical industry increased by more than EUR 80 million and late payments increased by more than EUR 133 million. How are we on this subject right now? This situation, Minister, captures the National Health Service, threatens sustainability and good health care. And how are we, Minister, debt vis-à-vis the social sector in the field of health? Mr. Minister spoke of an attack on the social state. You will agree, then, with me that a indebted State is the greatest enemy of the social state and social cohesion, don't you think, Minister? [[CDS-PP applause.]] On the other hand, I would like to ask about another situation, because we continue without guarantees of hiring staff, particularly nurses, to maintain secure funding in the provision of health care, even more so when almost two months after the publication of the State budget we continue to wait for the publication of the decree of budgetary implementation that can enable these new contracts. Are they, or are they not, keeping up with health? Will, or will not, contracts be guaranteed for people who compromise healthcare services? Finally, Mr Minister, I would also like to ask you about another matter that has to do with the maintenance of waiting times for supplementary diagnostic examinations. We are talking about an area that compromises Portuguese access to good health care, and therefore we would like to know when the publication of the portal — which has already been promised by the Minister for months here — about the waiting times, which are currently unacceptable, for further diagnostic examinations. So for when, because we are actually talking about an area in which access to health care is compromised. Mr Minister, what answers do you have for these real and concrete problems of day-to-day that compromise the sustainability of the SNS (National Health Service) and access to good health care? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u134	Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Mr Minister, I would like to start by saying that those that are the consequences of the concrete action of the PSD/CDS Government still feel in public services, particularly in social security, because for PSD and CDS to ensure good service in social security was to close counters and cut in the number of workers. In fact, we remember here that, PSD and CDS, they wanted to send for the requalification — before the dismissal — hundreds of social security workers, including disabled workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u136	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u137	And, Mr Minister, notably the National Pension Centre, social security has suffered a profound reduction of workers in recent years, which is of course not disconnected from the action of the PSD/CDS Government, which wanted to distance the social security from the populations, seeking to discredit them, to weaken their response and, of course, to create the conditions for their privatization. The reduction of workers in social security, particularly in the National Pension Centre, has implications for the lives of these workers, who, less than that, have to guarantee virtually the same answers, but also have implications, and serious implications, in the lives of many hundreds of thousands of Portuguese. This is because fewer workers in social security and at the National Pension Centre means less speed in responses to people, less ability to respond to written communications, to answer phone calls, and more difficulty also in caring for users. This is not a situation that has been dragging on for many years, but of course it is important to find solutions to put an end to it, because this is a public service which, in most cases, responds to people with great economic difficulties and shortcomings, which cannot be protected, nor can they suffer long-term answers, because in many cases they are at a threshold of survival. Mr Minister, the rapid and quality response to social security users is inseparable not only from improving working conditions for professionals there but also from guaranteeing human and material resources to enable the performance of the public social security service. This is the way we believe that it is important to follow and, of course, we would like to know what measures the Government intends to take to ensure that this path is followed and that, in fact, better social security for Portuguese people means a more quality and speedy response to the fulfilment of the public social security service. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u138	To conclude this group of requests for clarification, Mr Luís Vales has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the word equality was widely used by the parties of the extreme left, even used war language to defend workers' rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u140	Your language is that it's a fucked-up nonsense.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u141	Who doesn't remember the attack on workers' rights, the defense of a patriotic and left-wing policy that the PCP and the Block were defending so much? Well, we realized this was just conversation. They say that the professionals of the National Health Service work 35 hours, but not all of them, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. Not all of them! There's a lot of work going on at 40 hours. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u142	You, who did so many visits to health services, now nobody sees them, and perhaps they don't know that there are professionals who don't work 35 hours, they work 40, 45, 50 hours a week. And you know why? They don't know why you have now left the street; you now defend the workers from Saint Benedict. But I do explain, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as they were in a great hurry to put the return on paper at 35 hours, now workers have to do extraordinary work. And you know what? Payment of this work is delayed in several months! Where is the worker's defense now, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! And when are you going to solve these problems, Minister? Oh, my God! In addition to all this, Mr Health Minister announced, with a pump and circumstances, that he will force doctors over 55 years of age to make emergencies for another 10 months. You fill your mouth with 35 hours of work, but then you force professionals to work longer hours. You have limited the resources of the National Health Service and now force doctors to work longer. This makes some sense, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! What policy on human resources management and defense of the SNS is this? Oh, my God! Mr Minister, what is the foreign idea of indexing the age of work in emergencies to the average life expectancy? Oh, my God! But there's more, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, you are in favour of the internalisation of the means as well as we are. But do you know what this government that you support is doing? I'll tell you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The use of occupational doctors and external enterprises in emergencies has increased sharply. It was no longer spending so much on these services for several years. Until November, it was EUR 96 million, when, even last year, the current Health Minister recognized that the previous Government had reduced these costs to EUR 80 million. This value is increasing again, but that is not what you are talking about now, because it doesn't matter, is it, Minister? Oh, my God! Mr President, Deputy Minister, we are returning to the Eng.o José Socrates Health Ministry. The story repeats itself! They are again tearing down the resources of the Ministry of Health and makeup last year's SNS accounts to have a deficit of EUR 200 million, which would have been EUR 420 million if it had not come at the end of the year, a "valo-offer" of the Ministry of Finance of more than 200 million, to compose the deficit. With this type of management and policies, with so many intentions, promises and commitments, to please everything and all, new health centres, new hospitals, new maternity facilities, how much will the Ministry of Finance be leaving on the Christmas Health Shoe this year? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u143	Is it against strengthening SNS funding? Hello!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u144	Or is this, after all, only electionist talk for the next local authorities, which you use to keep fooling the Portuguese people? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u145	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for the questions you have raised. Mr. João Vasconcelos, we fully agree that the vision for decentralization should integrate all levels of territorial administration of the State and should have a long-term view at regional level regarding the unique role of the parish. And that is why we want to take steps at all these levels: democratization of the CCDRs means this, working with the metropolitan areas, as we are doing with that of Porto and Lisbon, so that solutions are built with as much convergence as possible, it is an essential path, and decentralizing competences for municipalities and for the parish. Mrs Diana Ferreira brought us here the issue of social security. I would like to say that, in this matter, what is fundamental, first and foremost, and is the main achievement of this government's governmental solution, is to interrupt a path to the destruction of social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u147	Supported!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u148	Ensuring the sustainability of social security, paying pensions to whom it deserves and updating them is the best way. We did it in 2016 and we are doing it with the valuations that benefit millions of pensioners in 2017. But you are right about the difficulties in the care and, therefore, at the National Pension Centre, we have already strengthened, with about two dozen workers, the number of those who provide direct care there, is running a care management system and we are convinced that the new call center of social security, giving a national response, will also make it possible to relieve the pressure on the National Pension Centre. Mrs Isabel Galriça Neto and Mr Luís Vales have asked questions in the field of health. Madam Member, I do not want to keep you in anxiety, but surely in the next few days, the budgetary implementation decree will be published — already in the Presidency of the Republic — and will allow us to do even better in 2017 than in 2016. It is that it was in 2016 that 1400 doctors were placed, i.e., the largest number of doctors' placements for a long time, joining specialists to public health doctors. 2000 nurses were hired, i.e., a tragedy was inflicted, which was that we were training nurses for the United Kingdom and other countries. Finally, we retrained nurses for Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u149	That, the PSD doesn't comment!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u150	And as for the areas that have been long-suffering for decades, Mrs. Deputy will certainly be very pleased to go, with Mr. Secretary of State and Mr. Minister of Health, to one of the centres in the Alentejo area, where from this year 50 oral health doctors will arrive to public health. This is a radical and innovative difference. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Luís Vales, the last intervention of the PSD, which falls to you, closed a disastrous cycle here, which began with Mr Hugo Lopes Soares and ended with Mr Luís Vales, and proves resounding, despairing and a total take-off of national reality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They do not understand the appreciation of the National Health Service, the appreciation of public services, in a dimension of dialogue with the sectors, with the professionals, with the Order of Doctors, with the unions, without social conflict, a standard that we follow in health, education, in the field of transport, in the area of social security, working, eyes in the eyes, by development,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u151	Mr. Minister, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u152	... by a more supportive growth, in which decentralization and affirmation of public service, administrative simplification, modernization, service to the citizen are the pillars of a modern, intelligent State, development friend, job creation, a more just and supportive country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u153	You now have the floor to Mrs. Luísa Salgueiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If there were any expectations regarding the PSD proposals on state reform and access to public services, it would be absolutely clear to the void of ideas that we witnessed during the 12 sad minutes... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...in which we heard Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares from that rostrum without presenting a single idea. Mrs Berta Cabral, who came to her aid, said at least what was the position of the PSD bench with regard to the resolution of the Council of Ministers last week, which admitted the possibility of a consensus, in fact corresponding to the appeal of the President of the Republic. For us, who are here, it is no longer a great surprise, since this position comes following the famous reform of the state that the previous government presented, led by the famous script by Dr. Paulo Portas that only became known for the size of the letter and the space between the paragraphs. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u155	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u156	It is not surprising, therefore, that we no longer had any expectation regarding the PSD's positions on this matter. on the contrary, already in its electoral programme, the government considered it urgent to decentralise powers, transferring them to local authorities and doing so at the level of municipalities, Freguesia and intermunicipal entities. We note that in the proposal to which you have referred from the PSD on decentralization, you do not even refer to the level of decentralization, but for the Socialist Party it is also one of the absolutely essential areas.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u157	She's wrong! I haven't read our proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u158	He understood that celebrating the 40 years of local power could not be done in a better way than decentralizing powers, recognizing the work that the autarchs have done in the last 40 years, reiterating the confidence they have in the hundreds of autarchs that in the country give satisfaction to people's needs. We have already passed the initial phase, in which we had to supply basic needs, so well-solved by the numerous local authorities, at the level of water supply, energy, basic sanitation. The next autoarchs, which will leave the elections in September or October, will face a new cycle of local power in Portugal. They will be challenged, with their own powers, on the basis of universal decentralization and not based on mere spot inter-administrative contracts, to develop new policies to support citizens in the area of education, in the area of social action, in the field of health, in the field of management of port areas, heritage, etc. There are many such areas, and it is worth noting that decentralization will be accompanied by the transfer of the necessary human resources and financial resources, translating this truly serious position of the Socialist Party's Government to strengthen the powers of local authorities. This reform, together with the central administrative modernization, will remain one of the main brands of this government and will completely alter the structure of the State in Portugal. According to the PSD, this proposal is already late, they are even afraid that it coincides with the actual elections and that the PS withdraws profits from it,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u159	I'm afraid? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u160	...but maybe it's better to pick the candidates from the city hall to get more support. Of course, we believe that this is an important, serious reform which sets the principle of proximity, which we also defend, and we are therefore pleased that the Government has already approved its borders last week and we will be here to follow the development of the bill. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u161	Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have learned that the problem of PSD and the right with public school and with education in general in Portugal is a problem of lack of investment, which is not a bad start. Knowing that the problem is lack of investment is not a bad start, that is what the Left Block has said: there is a chronic, structural problem, lack of public investment in education in Portugal. So welcome! Welcome to the conclusion that there is no money in public schools. however, I must warn that the history of PSD and CDS is not that of the diagnosis of lack of investment, the history of PSD and CDS is to freeze works in schools and, for example, to let students from Monte da Caparica take lessons for four years in containers. The history of PSD and CDS is to close more than 2000 schools. The history of PSD and CDS is to fire 30,000 teachers. The history of the PSD and the CDS is to fire 21,000 non-teachers from schools, those who now the PSD and the CDS say they need so much. The Left Block agrees — we need it! — but the PSD fired them.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u163	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u164	It's true, yes, sir! [[PSD protests.]] at the same time, he placed 5000 employment-inclusion contracts to work in schools — unemployed — replacing those who had fired and increased working hours to those who remained.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u165	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u166	The history of PSD and CDS is to ignore the pedagogical effect of increasing the number of students per class to save money and fire teachers. [[Protests by PSD Member Amadeu Soares Alberaria.]] The history of the PSD and CDS is to make a curriculum reform that, by chance, cut 45 million euros. A curriculum reform that, by coincidence, did not imagine—see it there! — helped to cut 45 million euros. What a concern for the students that the PSD and CDS had! The history of PSD and CDS is to cut 1300 million in public school. The history of PSD and CDS is a decentralization project that was actually municipalization and achieved the unpublished: it is a project that no one likes and whose promise was a quinhão to the municipal chambers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u167	Look at the evaluation reports there, not to say falsehoods!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u168	The municipal chambers that accepted this municipality could be left with a quintuple of what they could cut to the schools. That's the PSD and CDS history! Its history is to close the eyes to the abuse of association contracts and when, in a reformist spirit, the majority that now exists intends to introduce rationality and decency in these same contracts, the PSD and the CDS are against.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u169	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u170	I will finish, Mr. President. The PSD and the CDS, like Dickens' old malicious tale, may have been visited by the ghost of past public services,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u171	It's the Devil, it's the Devil!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u172	...the ghost of public services present and the ghost of future public services and have changed their minds. After all, we need investment! ... The problem is that one cannot say, in the middle of the week, that this government will take the country to bankruptcy because it spends too much and, in the other half, that there is a lack of public investment.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u173	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u174	The PSD does not have to decide now. Tomorrow there is a debate about public school where the PSD can tell us, after all, whether there is a lack of investment or whether it is spending more. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u175	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u176	Mr President, Minister : As neither the PSD nor the CDS deny it, the previous government has made a disinvestment in public services without parallel in our history and, of course, has made a decisive contribution to reducing the response capacity of public services. Just see how the Portuguese have access to health care. We talked about health, but we could talk about justice, about the closure of courts, about public transport and about the de-investment that the previous government has made at this level. We could also talk about the great contribution that the PSD/CDS-PP government has finally given in access to public services with the extinction of parish churches or with the closure of schools throughout the country. Therefore, we cannot, nor should we ignore the great contribution to the fragility of public services that has been given by the PSD/CDS-PP government. I still have a question to ask the Minister of the Presidency and Administrative Modernization, who I know well that he does not have time but may be able to answer us in his final speech. Mr Minister, the Government is preparing a measure with the aim of simplifying the licensing of large tourist enterprises, but we would like to have the assurance that this measure will not overrun or shorten environmental requirements. We do not know if we will not be here before a philosophy that also presided over the projects PIN ( Potential National Interest ), the projects of relevant national interest, which no longer aimed at saving these enterprises to environmental rules. from there our fear and our reservations about this measure to simplify the licensing of large tourist enterprises and we would like to see it clarified if, for this purpose, we are not going to shorten the rules or requirements in environmental matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u177	Mrs Paula Santos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: It seems that the PSD is specializing in dealing without any serious issues that are, in fact, quite serious. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u179	The PSD pointed out this call to the government but, in view of the issue it proposed for it, it does not give a single answer to the concrete problems that people are facing.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u180	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u181	Problems that you, when you were in government, have not only deliberately ignored how, in fact, they have even worsened, being also responsible for the brutal consequences of your policies which, unfortunately, still today, are felt. They have brought nothing again to the Revanchist rhetoric of those who continue not to accept that the direction they wanted to impose on the people and the country has been interrupted. And from what we have heard today from the PSD, the conclusion that we have drawn is that they are totally demoralized, that they live very badly with the democratic regime... [[Us?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u182	...and with the fact that they were defeated. Whoever wants to go back, Mr. President, is the PSD, who wants to go back to the unfortunate policy of impoverishment and exploitation which has thrown thousands of Portuguese into poverty. The PSD is responsible for the degradation of public services, the destruction of thousands of jobs and the increase of costs for populations. These should be the reforms to which the PSD referred in its opening intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u183	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u184	Or, then, it referred to reforms such as the closure of schools, CTT posts, health services and valences, deconcentrated services of the central administration and, see, not satisfied with these great reforms that imposed on the country, were still extinguishing...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u185	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u186	... that, in many localities, were the only open door of the state, leaving entire populations to abandon. [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u187	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u188	in this debate on state reform we find it strange that the PSD did not come here to talk about the perspective of the future that they presented to the country, in 2013, with the script for the reform of the state. In fact, this document clearly reveals your conception of state and public services, a document that pointed to a true reconfiguration of the State in the interests of economic and financial groups. They defend a State only with functions in the areas of external relations, defence, internal administration and justice. This was your modernity. And even sovereignty has given up to satisfy the dictates of the European Union. They proposed a regulatory and supervisory State, which would abdicate to ensure the social functions of the State, which our Constitution confers on it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u189	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u190	Another example of great modernity!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u191	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u192	It said that reforming the State was about reducing the number of workers, simplifying working links — i.e. withdrawing rights and increasing exploitation —, concentrating more services, privatizing, saying that the State should not have business participations in areas that are not of its nuclear function, or even increasing working hours for 40 hours. All I mentioned in this document was with the aim of unlocking the door to economic groups in order to obtain bad profits at the expense of the commercialization of public services and fundamental rights, of which are the sales of schools to teachers, the capping of contributions to social security, the financing of private schools, with more association contracts or the teaching check. For the PCP, we are talking about what state reforms were for the PSD, and we have a quite different view. For the CFP, in this new phase of national political life, it was already possible to take steps to improve the state's relationship with the population by, for example, the freeness of school textbooks, 35 hours of weekly work, the reduction in the number of association contracts and the reopening of the courts. We believe that it is necessary to continue to deepen and strengthen this path. We believe that the modernisation of the State is not only a matter of introducing or taking advantage of the added value of new technologies in relation to citizens but, more than that, of ensuring public services with quality and proximity, valuing workers and their careers and respecting and guaranteeing the rights of work. It is also a matter of ensuring the social functions of the State, particularly the public school, the National Health Service, social protection, and it is still going on — and I conclude by thinking, Mr President, that in this debate we are now approaching, from a perspective of the State, giving realisation to a question which our Constitution raises and which is the creation of the administrative regions, so that we can have a more efficient state, which will improve even more...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u193	Your time is up, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u194	... the provision of public service to populations. These are proposals that the CFP has already announced that it will present and that we consider them to be fundamental to providing better public service, improving the quality of life of populations and also contributing to regional development. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u195	Mrs Hortense Martins has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u196	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members of the Government : Today we are in fact witnessing an appeal to the Government, the PSD initiative, on State reform and access to public services which is full of nothing. It is, in fact, what must not be done in politics and that the people do not deserve. But as you already know, the people already know that the government of intent, the government that was going back, the government that had no structural path was the PSD/CDS-PP government. [[And now it's what!Is that what you're talking ……]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u197	We now have an opposition consisting of a responsibly PSD, which does not accept democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We still remember very well, ladies and gentlemen. Members, of the results of that policy of a government that has increased the poverty of the elderly and children, has decreased GDP, has hidden the problems of the bank under the carpet, has increased taxes, has increased the unemployment of the young and the less young, who have been forced to emigrate, has attacked the National Health Service, an attack on the functions of the State, and which has no results, except these, to present. The Government of the Socialist Party, with parliamentary support, has the opposite: it has shown results in favour of Portuguese, has increased family incomes, has improved the economy, and this is seen in the confidence rates that are recognized nationally and internationally. E, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD have also said nothing about the modernization of the state. Now reforming the state is, for the PS, something very serious. The reform of the State also has the components already defined here, such as decentralisation, but also the components related to simplification and administrative modernization, something like SIMPLEX, which was established in a previous Government of the Socialist Party and which has now been resumed. Indeed, in recent times the reforms have not changed from mere PSD words. on the contrary, the current government has concrete measures, actions and reforming will. It's not enough to sign protocols, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u198	It is not enough to sign protocols with the bodies of freguesia and the authorities, deceiving the Portuguese, not leaving funding to proceed with these amendments and keeping the shops of the citizen and their proximity measures. SIMPLEX has made a huge difference and the execution rate, which is reflected in the measures, is already very considerable. I therefore end by calling once again to the need to find a more responsible attitude on the part of the PSD in Parliament — and we hope, in spite of all, that the path we must pursue in favour of the Portuguese people, with a plan for territorial and social cohesion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u199	Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : It has been mentioned here as a history. I wanted to make it clear that the CDS is very proud of its history. The CDS is proud to have participated in a government that rescued the bankruptcy country,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u201	It's all said!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u202	... removed foreign intervention from the country and returned to it the freedom of governance that you use today, and efficiently, thanks to a government of the PSD and the CDS-PP, which rescued the country from bankruptcy for which you had no responsibility. As for the matter of our vision of the reform of the state, you understand: either the script had nothing — it was just the size of the letter and it was empty—or it had all the defects that the PCP and BE accuse us of. [[PS protests.]] Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, I had a vision! It had a vision of an efficient state, a sustainable state, of balance of public accounts, of balance between the private sector and the public sector, had indeed a vision of the future, was not a hand full of nothing. What you have today is an induced coma state. What you have today is a state that does not get any worse but does not improve either, what you have today is a state that is only and only waiting, as it was quite clear, in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u203	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u204	With this I shall finish, Mr. President. It was clear from this debate, both in the interventions of the Government and in the interventions of the PS, BE and the Greens, that the only thing that concerns you are the forthcoming elections. The future of the country tells you little,... [[PS protests.]] ... tell you more about the next elections and that is very little, it is very short for the debate we should have done today. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u205	Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u206	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The discourse of the interpelent party, in radicalism that little or nothing has to do with reality, is more a proclaiming discourse than itself critical. What we realize is that it is impossible for them to be contradicted by the legitimacy that exists in this legislative and governmental solution and that has very positive results. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not deny the problems and we know that many still persist, but we are in charge of them and we can present results from now on. So let's talk about results, let's talk about access to basic health services that are provided to citizens and about free access and movement in the National Health Service. An Integrated Access Management System was created, the SGEI, which allows the user, together with his family doctor, to opt for any of the units of the National Health Service where there is a specialty consultation that he or she needs. The internalization process of surgeries in the National Health Service units is another example, Mrs. Members, but they didn't talk about it. They think it's no structural reform. As you wish, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen,... [[PSD protests.]] ...but what is true is that the citizen is satisfied, the users are satisfied. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u207	This service I talked about has also allowed 41 264 valves of surgery, which means a reduction. It doesn't matter either, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? They did not have to signal this reform either. At least it's a little reform! Don't you think it has a fundamental value for the citizen? Anyway, whatever you want. in the context of improving the governance of the SNS, the portal of the National Health Service was also created. Well, I know you guys are. PSD members don't like it, but for the first time we have real-time data with information about access, performance and quality of the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u208	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u209	I will now finish, Mr President. I know that greater access or the fact that we have more to be able to confront ourselves with rigour and transparency is a subject on which the PSD is not interested and on which it does not want to talk. To conclude, obviously respecting the right that the PSD has to disagree with our strategy,... [[Thank you!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u210	...we ask, at least, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who do not systematically deny the reality with speeches, who do not escape responsibility and who can, once and for all, contribute to this reform of the State which you say our government has not yet executed. And your contribution where is he? Not even an idea came out of this interrogation! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u211	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now entering the closing phase of the debate. On behalf of the Inter-Parliamentary Group, the PSD, Mr Luís Marques Guedes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u212	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The brutal de-investment and consequent erosion and loss of quality of public services have been a success story of this government. There is no tale of the vicar, azares, mistakes of perception or other history of carochinha that conceal this reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u213	What language!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u214	in the last year, we saw a clear degradation in the provision of public services that is the result of the bad choices and options that were taken. in a style that has been customary to you, they seek to make the facts and throw the blame on third parties, but you are responsible, they know they are and they know why they are. in the previous Legislature, they said in this House: « Cutting into public services of education, health, social security is destroying what exists today and ensuring that tomorrow there is no one they need. And they added: « Every time they cut the state's spending, they diminish the ability to produce(...) It's a failed recipe. Do not keep on seeking. ” The first of these statements lies with the parliamentary leader of the Bloc and the second to now Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs. Your memory may be conveniently short, but political seriousness cannot and should not be so shrugged.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u215	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u216	Ladies and gentlemen. Members: If degradation is the word of order in your management of public services, in the reform of the state, in what structurally it means, it is offsetting that we must speak. It was known at the beginning how antagonistic the models of society and state defended by the socialists and by the Communist ideology parties to which they allied themselves are. on the basis of the business that joined you was not the realization of reforms but, before, its reversal and the backwardness in policies that rescued the bankruptcy country. It was against which you were in favour. Of course, a negative majority can hardly expect positive governance. He lacks the basics, which is a common project of society. The socialists will have to tear the garments and sell the soul to the Devil...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u217	He's always the Devil!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u218	...to carry forward a reform agenda, hand-held with the communists,... [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] ... to whom a real reform of the State goes, and I quote, « by the resumption of public control of companies of goods and services, by public control of the bank, through nationalisations, by the reversal of European Union treaties, by the collapse with NATO, by the exit of the euro », or, with the bloggers, who still add to these pearls the nationalisation of Galp and EDP, the nationalisation of insurance and the whole financial sector. [[Protests by BE Member Jorge Duarte Costa.]] It is true that the Government has so far resisted this suicide agenda of the partners it has chosen, but it is necessary to say loud and sound that the drifts in the operation of the state that its concubine on the left are already sponsoring. I want to mention three dangerous examples: we had a trade union OPA to the Ministry of Education... [[Protests by the PS Spouse Porfirio Silva.]] ... with surely devastating effects in the medium and long term and whose first harmful consequences there are: the irreflective devaluement of the requirement and merit in the evaluation of students,... [[PS protests.]] ... death inflicted on the so necessary evaluation of teachers, the inflection in the descent, historical and consistent, that school dropout had been registering in recent years and the announced return of behavioral disciplines to curricula, disciplines that for nothing serve to be not for the ideological objective of teaching our children and young people. [[PSD applause.]] [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u219	in another area, we witness the objective disqualification of social dialogue, a clear surrender to the communist and blogger idea for whom the ongoing dialogue and the quest for commitment do not go from treason to the struggle of classes that have as dogma of faith. When the government sits at the table, imposing decisions already closed, the dialogue is limited to the barge of counter-partys to reduce impacts, poisoning any serious hypothesis of consultation and commitment. Thus, on the one hand, we see the government's little consideration for concertation and, on the other hand, that is looking at the mirror when the name of the fair is called.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u220	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u221	But the most serious and dangerous of drifts is the scourge of the regular functioning of the Assembly of the Republic that we are living today.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u222	Not supported!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u223	Insidiously and with the active convivence of the President of the Assembly, it must be said,... [[PS protests.]] ... after the episodes of low politics, ticks of authoritarianism and totalitarianism, the majority are now testing the imposition of a climate of parliamentary suffocation in which the elementary constitutional duties of monitoring the acts of the Government and, even the last reduction of the rights of the opposition to exercise it, which are the power rights, are blocked and vilipendiated.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u224	We've got you all far away!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u225	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u226	I will finish, Mr. President. Anyone who does so wants to reduce Parliament to a Chamber for the whitening of errors and the covering of responsibilities in government action,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u227	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u228	... wants to suffocate the function of government supervision for us to be elected.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u229	We've got you all far away!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u230	Know that we do not resign, nor will we deal with this asphyxiation. You may be offended that you have generated an arithmetic majority to occupy power.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u231	It is not arithmetic, it is political and in defense of the citizens! I respect the popular vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u232	They can use it and even make a weapon not to defend transparency and democracy, rather to protect and safeguard, at all costs, the exercise of power that so much enlivens you. But when they come out of the mandate to crush rights and silence the ballot for those who are in opposition, they are firing on their feet and maiming themselves. It is not the opposition they face, it is the very reason why you are in Parliament that you are suffocating. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u233	To close the debate, I give the floor to Ms. Minister for the Presidency and Administrative Modernization, Maria Manuel Leitão Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The modernization of the State and the quality of public services are priority objectives of the Government Programme, reflected in the State Budget and are included in the National Reform Programme, which is much broader than the theme selected here today. More than that, the modernization of the state is being done daily by the government,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u235	You don't notice anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u236	... but the sense and priority that we attribute to this modernization is not to minimize the state, believing that an invisible hand will solve the rest. If that is the sense that they attribute to your so-called structural reforms — cutting income and rights, redeploying employees, selling the State, even in areas without competition — but, of course, little to the union and much separates us from the modernization of the State. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The modernization of the state, for us, aims to provide it with strategic intervention capacity, aims to make it simpler, smarter and more inclusive, with a public administration capable of managing well the taxes we entrust to it. We want an administration, first of all, that is close to people and so decentralization, today discussed, the reopening of courts, the strengthening of the continuing care network, the valuing of public school as a condition of equality, the opening of shops and spaces of the citizen are fundamental pillars of this reform and this modernization. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We want a public administration which also favours, and does not harm, the competitiveness of our economy, relieving it of excessive costs of context and redundant interactions. Therefore, the SIMPLEX programme is also a priority for this government in the area of state modernization. In six months, in just six months, we've built a program that involves all government areas and we're going to run it, I can guarantee it. Everyone who has already worked on such measures knows that they are, in most cases, not of automatic execution. We will do a new SIMPLEX for 2017, as much as it costs to our right,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...and even I believe it costs, taking into account what you didn't do in this matter in four years—and it was so simple! The deepening of SIMPLEX was even foreseen in the first Memorandum with the troika. It was enough to start by controlling the execution of programs that had even been done, to continue the work with the authorities, which was going ahead, to catch the ride of a culture that was being installed throughout the Public Administration. But no! You, who love to say that we reverse your so-called reforms, have frozen the programme, precisely in the year in which it was awarded by the United Nations. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As for the shops of the citizen, later they were fortunately recovered, I must admit that, but the first statements by the Minister of the Presidency of then pointed out that they would only be needed in the large urban centres, precisely where he closed one without opening another, as if the remaining country had no right to access quality public services. [[PSD protests.]] It has thus been lost with your immobilisity in this matter, time, momentum, culture and opportunity to continue a real reform of the State in terms of improving access to public services, which I now know why they are so worried about! Because of duty, I am used to listening to criticisms carefully and learning from them, but in this matter it can only teach people who have experience of having already done so. That's not the case. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Instead, it was launched on the Public Administration and, in particular, on public officials a wave of devaluation as never seen, perhaps to justify the cut-off that happened on them, as if they were disposable, replaceable and all were more. Unforgettable, yes, but for good reasons! Ladies and gentlemen. Members: A public administration that wants to modernize does not devalue its people, works with them in that modernization, is concerned about its qualification. [[P.S.'s applause.]] A modern public administration today cannot be enough to strictly comply with its routines, even though it has to do so; it has to rethink, differentiate its responses according to the needs of citizens and businesses, to use technologies in a transformative way, as we have done at the home of the IRS automatic, SMS warnings after the end of card validity and in many other areas already. Now! at the end of a year of government, only one year and not four, simplification is already in the daily life of citizens and companies and has deserved good international references. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It improves the state and improves people's lives. He just doesn't see who doesn't want to see, I see and I talk to people, often and in many places. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And we did it by legislating it less than in previous years. Is everything done? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, of course not, and probably not everything is perfect, as in the films. It is never even possible to be done when these challenges are permanent,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u237	You want to finish, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u238	... when realities are dynamic, when the world is made of change and when the expectations of the citizen evolve. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have met the demanding financial targets imposed by Brussels, but we have not used this as an excuse not to continue with these reforms. on the contrary, it is with this certainty, with this determination and daily commitment that the government faces the future and that we work every day so that this future, with sustainable and modern public services, is within our reach, i.e. within the reach of all Portuguese, in a fair and universal manner. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-23.u239	It is thus closed our agenda. I should like to inform the plenary of the agenda for tomorrow's meeting, which will take place at 10 a.m. in the first item is the thematic debate required by BE on public school. in the second point will be evaluated together, in general, the projects of lein.o 391 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Change the general table of the seal tax to eliminate the taxation of card-based payment transactions ( CDS-PP ), 396 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Clarifies the holder of economic interest in the rates for card-based payment operations ( amendment to the Seal Tax Code approved by Law No 150 / 99 of 11 September ) ( PS ), 404 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — It makes it clear that the charge of seal tax on commissions charged to traders falls on the financial system ( CFP ) and 410 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Ensure that the seal tax affecting fees charged by card-based payment operations falls on the financial institutions ( amendment to the Seal Tax Code as approved by Law No 150 / 99 of 11 September ) ( BE ). The third point follows the assessment of Decrees-Laws Nos 82 / 2016 of 28 November, which determines the decentralization, partial and temporary, of the competences of the transport authority, of the State to the Metropolitan Area of Porto, concerning the public transport service of passengers operated by the Collective Transport Society of Porto, SA ( STCP ), and the decentralization, partial and temporary, of the operational management of the STCP[ Parliamentary assessment Nos 28 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) ( PCP ) ] and 86 - D / 2016, of 30 December, which transfers to the municipality of Lisbon the ownership and management of Carris [ Parliamentary assessment No 31 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) ( PCP ) ]. at the end of the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the Rules of Procedure. I wish the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the continuation of a good afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 25 minutes.]]
