ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, I declare open the session. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we begin the agenda, I inform the House of the office of Mr President of the Republic of the following meaning: « Having been approved the Resolution which granted consent for my travel to Luxembourg, on a State visit, between 21 and 26 of the next month of May, serves the present to inform you that, upon return, I will travel to Madrid for the opening of the Book Fair, but returning on the same day. Do not keep on seeking. ” Let us then move on to the agenda, a marking of the Left Block, which consists of the joint debate, in general, of the projects of lein. 496 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amendments to the legal-laborative regime and extension of social protection of work by shift and night ( BE) and 508 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strengthen the rights of workers in the night and shift work system ( CFP ). To present the bill of the Left Block, Mr. José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Two out of every 10 workers in Portugal work in shifts and the trend is that they are becoming more and more. There are more than 725 000 people who in the industry or in public transport, in the distribution of energy or in the health system to which we all resort, in the distribution of water or telecommunications, in private safety or in commercial spaces, in airports and in hotels, in the selection and distribution of mail, which is done during the night, or in the call centres of support available 24 hours — more than 725 000 in Portugal — work in shifts. Like most workers in Portugal, many and many of those working in shifts have low wages and are not even covered and protected by collective bargaining. But in addition, the legislation we have does not respond to their needs nor does it recognise the special difficulties that are placed upon them by their work, by the pace imposed, by the way it is organized, by the impact that shiftwork has on the lives and health of these people. The shiftwork causes intense wear, with heavy consequences. The hours of these workers and of these workers are different from the hours of friends and the hours of the family. Many cannot even plan basic things, like a weekend to be with their children. The shift working time, especially when it involves night work, represents a loss of life, often irreparable. And the consequences from a biological, psychological and social point of view have been studied throughout Europe, with strong conclusions on its effects. The shift work has heavy health costs: sleep disorders, increased fatigue, depressive symptoms, changes in appetite and gastrointestinal system, cardiovascular disorders and even, as is well known, a greater incidence of diseases such as cancer. But in shift work there are also consequences in the context of work itself: more accidents, sometimes fatal, fatigue as permanent company, lives that are worked in counterlight. And there is, of course, the time that is taken away from the rest of life that is not work. It is no coincidence that shift workers have more difficulty in managing their relationships, losing contact with friends, who cannot respond to family, who lose so much of their children's growth. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years we have seen a trend towards liberalizing working hours, which calls into question the basic principles of workers' rights to rest, the possibility of predicting and organizing their lives, not being enslaved by work. In more and more sectors shiftwork results not only from a social need but from a logic of accumulation by some sectors of the economy and some companies. It's just that this logic has costs for people, and it's not worth looking at the side. The shift workers have been largely forgotten and invisible. The debate here today is a call for this Parliament to respond to these people. Firstly, the law needs to clarify the concepts of shiftwork, nightwork, shiftwork, nightwork, so that these more than 700 000 people can be covered by a legal regime to protect them. Secondly, the minimum requirement of the law is that it defines rules on shift organisation that guarantee minimum synchronisation between the lives of these workers and social life; that they guarantee a minimum period of rest in shift change; that they guarantee things such as, for example, having the right to at least two weekends of rest in every six weeks of work, as we propose in this bill. Thirdly, shift workers and their representative structures — trade unions and workers' committees — must have a decisive word in defining shifts and organizing schedules in each company. the shift workers must also be guaranteed an extended access to medical examinations and health care, which is also one of the objectives of the initiative we present here today. Fourthly, shift workers must be compensated for the wear and tear that causes them their activity and must be compensated for the penosity of how they perform their work. For this reason, we propose that a maximum of 35 hours per week for those who are covered by this shift or night work scheme should be defined for shift work and that the right to an additional one day's holiday be paid for every two years' night or shift work. Fifthly, with this law we also want to intervene in other dimensions. We want to define the value of pay increases paid for shift work and night work. Moreover, it is not surprising that in recent years, and in particular during the period of the troika, changes to labour legislation have always been aimed at withdrawing workers, including workers, more pay, more pay, more rights. We want to restore not only the cuts that have been made under the Labour Code, but we also want to recognise that these workers must be compensated for the kind of work they do. We recognize that shiftwork — which is probably the most painful and exhausting of all the work arrangements that the law provides — actually causes early aging and therefore we want to recognise to these workers the right to anticipate the legal age of reform of two months for each year of shift or night work. Members, shiftwork has grown, but the law has not followed the transformation that has existed in society and, above all, the law has not protected these workers. For the Block, it is essential that they be not forgotten and our expectation with this debate is that in this Parliament a majority will be found that does not fail the shift workers who guarantee them conditions of dignity, who recognise the work they do. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u3	Mr António Carlos Monteiro, from the CDS-PP, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr José Soeiro, the Left Block has positively allocated this debate on shift and night work and, first of all, I want to say that this is a matter that we consider important. It is important because it has an impact on workers' lives and health, it is important because it has an impact on the organization of their family life. It is a matter that concerns us and that always deserves our consideration. But, as an important matter, we could not understand — and we would like Mr Soeiro to make it clear to us — why they gave us a positative agenda for this debate today without the public consultation of the trade unions. Why? The gentlemen. Members of the Left Block and, now, of the Communist Party, are they exempt from hearing the unions? Do you think so? Would it not also be important to hear the employers' confederations? We know that there are activities that necessarily have to resort to night and shift work and, in a modern society, we would not even think of it as such, particularly in fundamental services. The competitiveness of the economy and the consequent creation of jobs can also require shiftwork and nightwork. The gentlemen. Members think that it should be possible to reduce the working hours for shift and night work for 35 hours, to increase the cost of shift and night work, to increase vacation and rest days, to advance the retirement age, to increase the social security contributions of employers without going to social consultation? Without the public consultation — which we already know has not been made — these projects will not be voted on today. We are confident that, once again, they will fall to the specialty without a vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u5	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u6	The question we have to ask is the following: is this another stage of the Left Block and the PCP? this time, did you choose to delude who works for shifts? And now I am addressing the Socialist Party to ask — the CDS has already asked several times — whether it is true that Mr. Prime Minister, to secure the agreement to increase the national minimum wage, undertook to only change labour legislation in social consultation there for the year 2018. What are we staying on? Will Left Block, PCP and PS understand themselves now and here, in the Assembly of the Republic, or will the government negotiate in social consultation? It is important to remember that, after all, it is with the current labour law that the country has managed to reduce the unemployment rate. It's good to remember that, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u7	To reply, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u8	Mr President, Mr António Carlos Monteiro, your bench was advised that we would schedule this debate and make this project go down to the Commission without a vote, so that we can, in the specialty, do all the hearings that are necessary...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u9	They were already warned!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u10	...to make a serious and deep work on this matter. What records your intervention is that you didn't say anything about shiftwork,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u11	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u12	...but it would be worth asking some questions to the CDS about the importance that came here today to the unions. Mr President, where was it important to listen to the unions and to take your opinion into account when the CDS and PSD government made the wage cuts they did? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u13	That's right! Demagogy!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u14	Where was the importance of trade unions and workers when the Government of the CDS and the PSD reduced the amount paid for additional work to half of its value? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u15	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u16	Where was it important to listen to unions and workers when the PSD and CDS government took days off and ended up with four holidays? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u17	You've forgotten about the social agreement!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u18	Where was the importance of the family, the reconciliation between work and family life, of having time to live? Where was all this? Oh, my God! [[Protests by CDS-PP Member António Carlos Monteiro.]] Mrs. Members of the CDS-PP, where were the unions when, contrary to the opinion of all trade unions and of all trade union confederations, you razed with collective bargaining, leading to the situation in which we live today, in which most Portuguese workers are not covered by collective bargaining? Oh, my God! This situation has a concrete impact on shift workers, a situation that we want to correct by valuing collective bargaining, based on the principle of more favourable treatment in the law, ending with the lapse of collective agreements and also recognizing in the law a work regime that is protective of these workers and that recognizes them the penosity of their work. About this, Mr.António Carlos Monteiro, I have not heard the CDS say a word. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u19	What you're doing is a scene!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u20	To present the PCP bill, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in our country, every day, many thousands of workers survive at a very exhausting rate of shiftwork. They are mothers and parents who do not see children, children who grow up deprived of leisure and rest time, families built in days and intermittent affections. The number of workers subject to this regime of deep physical and emotional wear is increasing. That is why it is unacceptable to recognise, strengthen and guarantee rights to all workers covered by the shiftwork scheme. It is not only legitimate to recognise the right to anticipate the retirement age due to the wear and severity of this type of work, as well as to guarantee the right to leave the day shift scheme after working 20 years in this scheme, or when the worker is 55 years of working on a shift basis, without any loss of the allowance he enjoys at the time. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the occasion of the so-called 'emergency of increasing competitiveness', successive changes to labour legislation have always, but always, resulted in a deterioration of workers' rights. New concepts and instruments were imposed, such as adaptability, individual and group hourly banks and concentrated times, but, in fact, only recovered old ideas of dehumanization of work. The working hours, their establishment and compliance, the respect for rest times, their payment and compensation conditions, the link with family, personal and professional life continue, for the worst reasons, to take on a huge deal. In the 21st century, three days after the celebration of 131 years of 1. the May one, in which, for the first time, the flag of the eight hours of work and the slogan 8 / 8 / 8 — eight hours to work, eight hours to rest and eight hours to leisure, the working hours continue to constitute, together with wages, the target of the greatest attack on the part of the employers and, consequently, the firmest and most courageous struggle and claiming of the workers. to the civilizational advance of the consecration of the eight hours of daily work, the capital was resisting and responding with archdiocese instruments to turn and remove law. It transformed the entire normal working period into effective working time, eliminating pauses, inventing the most diverse flexibilitys and thus increasing the intensity and working rhythms. Mr. President and Mr. Members, it is unquestionable that day work is the right work for the human being and that night work, in general, is the cause of serious damage. Because the organism works in a state of deactivation, scientific research has shown that night work requires an additional effort; that sleep, in a state of day-to-day reactivation, is shorter and of lower quality; and that night work causes sleep disturbances, frequent vigils and other neuropsychic disorders, irritability, aggressiveness, exhaustion, depressive tendencies. Several studies confirm that the risk of developing breast cancer is much higher in women who perform night work. There is no doubt: the principle and the law must be based on the affirmation of the exceptionalness of night work. We propose that the concept of night work be fixed between 20 hours and 7 hours the following day and that there be a guarantee that there is no practice of working hours adaptability. The average for activities that do not involve special penosity should be only weekly. in the organization of shiftwork, it is essential to lay down some rules that prevent abuses in the application of shift system 3x8. It is also important to establish, for this system, the weekly reduction of working hours, as well as, in the cases of the rotating rest days, the periodicity of their enjoyment on Saturday and Sunday, to establish short cycles for the night team and to create for the night workers another rest interval, in addition to that which is already enshrined in the period of special sleepiness. In addition to these proposals, we believe that, without prejudice to the replacement of conditions for payment of redundancies prior to the Labour Code, which was approved in 2012 and promoted by the PSD and the CDS, having facilitated and embarrassed redundancies, it is important to ensure more favourable conditions for workers. For this reason, we propose that, immediately, be accounted for, for the purposes of calculating redundancies compensation, the shift allowance.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u22	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with this draft law, the CFP does not remain for the recognition and confirmation of the harsh characteristics of the work regime. The CFP goes further and proposes measures to limit, safeguard and repair the effects of shiftwork. Thus: we limit night work and shifts to situations that are technically and socially justified; we propose the guarantee of safety conditions, health protection, maternity and paternity, as well as the existence of social infrastructure and services compatible with this type of work hours; we propose the establishment, at the point of negotiation and collective bargaining, of allowances and compensation appropriate to workers covered by shiftwork; we propose the clarification of the concept of night work, re-establishing it at the beginning of 20 hours and not at 22 hours, as it is today in the Labour Code, and until 7 hours in the morning. More: we safeguard the non-application of the mechanisms for deregulation of working hours in relation to night and shift working hours; we move forward with the need to define periodicity in the enjoyment of rotating rest days, even on Saturday and Sunday; we point out the need to define a minimum amount of shift allowance; we guarantee recognition of the right to leave the shift scheme without penalty. Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to highlight again a proposal that responds to a very important claim for thousands of women and men in this country: the right to advance the retirement age due to the wear and penosity of this type of work. This is a central struggle in valuing work, which is an essential condition for the development of the country, and the CFP will, as always, be deeply committed to its victory. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u24	Mrs Rita Rato, the Bureau records the entry, for clarification, of Mrs Clara Marques Mendes. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Rita Rato has presented us with an initiative, but it should be remembered that the debate we are having this morning is by means of a legislative agenda of the Left Block and that the CFP, because it is also concerned to see who gives the most to whom, he presented, by drag, the initiative that is also being debated. Mrs. Members, the subject of this CFP initiative, which in its essence reflects the question of shiftwork and nightwork, deserves us all respect. We have always said, and we will continue to say, that this is a matter, like many others concerning labour legislation, that it has its own headquarters where it should be treated, which is in social consultation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u27	But you, with authoritarian tics, come here and want to impose legislation, apart from social consultation, on the workers' side, on the employers' side. You are not worried about collective bargaining or even about workers. They do not provide an opportunity for those who really know the problems and who apply the legislation to find better solutions through dialogue to this issue, which is essentially very relevant to workers who work in shifts and at night. We recognize that it is hard work and that it has implications at various levels in the life of the worker, from the outset with regard to the reconciliation between personal life and professional life and with regard to their own health. Therefore, we do not steal from the debate, but we say that this is not the way, this is the wrong way. I ask Mrs Rita Rato to bring this matter to Parliament before there is a negotiation is to respect workers if it is to respect trade unions. Is this about respect for workers? I also ask why they do not take advantage of this time when the Government, which you support, is in negotiations with the social partners, at the heart of social dialogue, to study and discuss matters related to labour law. Why do you not respect that moment and do not respect the support government itself? That is why the Socialist Party is very quiet this morning and does not even ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u28	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u29	This clearly shows that you have no respect for anything. You don't respect workers, you realize that you're worried about workers, but you're actually worried about showing that you're worried, but you're not! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u30	In reply, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, I thank you for the questions you have raised. We are particularly pleased to know that the championship of those who take more of the workers, the championship that the PSD and CDS carried out, was blocked by the struggle of the workers. Today, we are making a discussion that puts at the level of the claim not to block it from a path but the need to go further in the conquest of rights. Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, the proposal we have brought here has included the contribution of more representative structures of workers in their elaboration of what the PSD has probably ever talked about in life with unions. [[PCP applause.]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u32	on our part, we are deeply convinced that the contribution we are making here, Mr President. Members, the union has been born of a degree of fairness that has been putting Parliament in place for decades. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Madam Member, it is also not true that this claim arose in 2015 or 2016, this claim came from many years ago. Even when the PSD and CDS made the way back, the workers said it was necessary to go further: limiting shiftwork, ensuring conditions of anticipation at the retirement age, ensuring conditions to impose, again, night work from 8 o'clock at night and not from 10 o'clock at night, which meant stealing from the workers' wages. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear to us that today Parliament has a role to play: either it guarantees the strengthening and the conquest of rights or makes the Assembly of the Republic a resonance box of social consultation, and the CFP does not give to this petition. We will continue to intervene so that we will not waste any opportunity to strengthen and defend workers' rights and the shift scheme is essential in guaranteeing those rights. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u33	For an intervention, Mrs. Wanda Guimarães of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to make, in an introductory note, the framework of the topic under discussion, more specifically on the importance of the organization of working time and the modalities currently being practised, by crossing them with the objectives and reality that we have at our disposal in the analysis of the Green Paper on Labour Relations - 2016, which was launched by the Government last March. In fact, the organization of working time is one of the most important themes on the agenda of labour relations, especially in the workplace, and therefore represents progress in the quality of life of workers and workers, since always under discussion not only at European level but also worldwide, present in particular in the conventions and recommendations of the International Labour Organisation ( ILO ). I remember that the second European framework agreement negotiated at tripartite level by the European Trade Union Confederation ( CES ), the Union of Confederations of Industry and the Sponsorship of Europe ( UNICE ), currently called Business Europe, and by the governments through the European Centre for Public Enterprises ( CEEP ) — agreement, moreover, subsequently converted into a European directive, was precisely on part-time work. Also in the 1990s, more precisely on 23 November 1993, Directive 93 / 104 / EC, which was followed by Directive 2003 / 88 / EC of 4 November 2003 both of the European Parliament and of the Council, focuses on certain aspects of the organisation of working time, in particular as regards breaks, rest periods, certain aspects of night work, shift work, working time, etc. The 2003 Directive, in its recitals ( 10 ), refers to a fee : « The situation of night workers and shift workers requires that the level of protection they enjoy in terms of safety and health is compatible with the nature of their tasks and that the services and means of protection and prevention are organised and function effectively. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, also in Portugal and with regard to both shiftwork and nightwork, there was concern about the safety and health rules at work being part of the core of workers'rights, and can only be regulated by collective agreement if it is more favourable to workers — the principle of the most favourable treatment introduced by the Socialist Government in the revision of the 2009 Labour Code. This perspective of the establishment of balanced labour relations has always been present in the different socialist governments, in the modern view that the work — assumes the forms it takes — cannot be seen as a kind of daily torture, of diminishing the dignity of the worker or the worker, but rather based on tasks and responsibilities that can contribute to the personal enrichment of those who work, stimulating their creativity and competence, factors of dignity, realization and happiness, as yesterday was emphasized by the expert of the International Labour Organization Maria Luz Veja, in the hearing promoted by 10. the Commission, in partnership with ILO : a new language and a new ambition for work. Let me now remind you of the words of the Preface of the Green Paper on Labour Relations - 2016, authorship preface of Minister Vieira da Silva, crossing them with the references already stated on the organization of working time: « The phenomenon of globalization, in conjunction with the galloping development of new technologies, has been operating a huge and rapid change in the world of work worldwide. (...) Realities such as the generalization of the relocation of productive units, the polarization of employment, associated with the growth of atypical forms of work..." — such as shiftwork —, "... as well as the growing imperatives of adapting to the new conditions of global competitiveness have raised serious challenges to traditional logics of production and organization of labour relations. (...). Between 2011 and 2015, we witnessed a heavy process of deregulation and, above all, of individualization of labour relations in Portugal, to the detriment of social dialogue, collective bargaining and balanced labour relations, with a significant extension of the social space of the so-called precariousness. I have the conviction..." says the Minister — "that this is not the way and that it is necessary to build conditions for a new social consensus that opposes this excessive tendency of individualization of labour relations, which affirms social dialogue as a strategic advantage of negotiation, in particular for investment dynamics in the country. For this broad and shared reflection takes particular importance the dimension of social dialogue, as it is also underlying the agreement of principle between the Government and most of the social partners with seats at the Permanent Concertation of Social Concertation, at the end of December 2016. ' — Excuse me, possibly answering Mr António Carlos Monteiro's question. And he continues: "I believe that social dialogue is a factor of adjustment as few will exist. Doubts cannot exist that the sustainability of labour market reforms is much higher when they are made on the basis of broad and solid social dialogue processes. (...). The primary objective of this Green Paper is to contribute to an informed reflection on the last decade of the labour market in Portugal. This is an instrument of knowledge that provides an integrated evaluation of the work environment based on a broad set of objective indicators that allow critical reflection on the current system of labour relations. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, curiously, these last three paragraphs are highlighted on the website of the North Zone Teachers' Union, a social-democrat union, which only reinforces the importance of the Green Paper strategy and, now, the independence of the Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]] over the course of this almost a year and a half of the Government of the Socialist Party, it is right to point out that one of its most obvious priorities was to trivialize democratic normality, removing the unpredictability of constant attacks on rights or cuts in wages and pensions, returning to Portuguese and Portuguese incomes, security, dignity and institutional stability, as it has been, in fact, referred to as a positive mark of this Government by the President of the Republic. We have increased the minimum wage, restored the 35 hours for public service, revoked the shameful requalification — a humiliating open door for lay-offs —, dedicated the professional valorization of public workers in an approach to inclusion and exploitation of human resources, presented solutions to the resolution of the injustice of long-contributory careers, but above all, always defending the prospect that there is no true democracy without social cohesion... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and that this implies having public services of quality, accessible to all citizens, a distribution of shared and equitable wealth, equal opportunities between women and men assumed as priority and a labour market to function regularly, protected and competitively. This objective for the labour market can only be achieved if the Government continues its fight on three main fronts: combating segmentation; combating precariousness; and strengthening the conditions necessary for the dynamisation and implementation of collective bargaining and, above all, its results. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the Socialist Party, it is clear that the principle and the law should prioritize day work, as an appropriate form of work for workers and workers, however, not rejecting the need for new forms of organisation of properly regulated and protected work or the existence of night work, whose evidence is so great and well known that we do not believe it is necessary to list the sectors that this type of work has to resort to, which is increasingly a factor of development and well-being in the lives of citizens. Although we do not refuse any ideological analysis, on the contrary, considering it increasingly necessary in the times that run, or concepts that some may consider already exceeded, we understand that the best way to protect workers and workers is not to investigate ideas made or preconceived, but to continue open to the multiple transformations of society and to the contributions that, in this way, we are receiving from different social actors, without taboos or prejudices, in a learning perspective. That is what we will do during the 30 days of public discussion of the two bills under consideration. I end by quoting once again Minister Vieira da Silva :'Portugal is obviously not immune to these transformations. It is therefore essential to start an extended strategic reflection on the position of our labour market and our economy in the international context in Portuguese society. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u35	Mrs. Deputies, for clarification, Mr. António Carlos Monteiro of the CDS Parliamentary Group, and Mrs. Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group and Mr. Carla Barros of the PSD Parliamentary Group. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u36	I am replying together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u37	Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Wanda Guimarães, I have had the opportunity to say here that shift work and night work, the impact they have on the lives and health of workers, as well as the organization of their family life, are important matters. The CDS believes that it is possible that there is a need to improve legislation and is always available to improve it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u39	Hello? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u40	We have heard the speech of the honourable Member, in which he mentioned the Green Paper, in particular the matter relating to the organization of work, and it was important to say that this Green Paper was drawn up as a basis for social consultation. We already know that this ruling agenda of the bloc, to which the CFP has joined, is only a conversation, because we are not going to vote on the initiatives, they will go down to the Commission without a vote, but, Madam Member, if we were to vote on them, was the Socialist Party available to approve them without going into social dialogue? Admitting that the public consultation period was complete, would the honourable Member vote in favour of the initiatives without, before, going to social consultation? After all — and the CDS has already asked several times — it is true, or not, that the Government, in order to secure the agreement on the increase in the minimum wage, agreed that which was dropped here with the votes of your left-wing partners and the Communist Party when they rejected the reduction of the TSU (unique social rate), has committed itself to changing only labour law in social consultation in 2018? For the sake of the debate and for the clarity of the positions of the different parties, it was good for the honourable Member to clarify what the PS really thinks to do in this case. [[Congrats from the CDS-PP,]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u41	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Members of Parliament, Mrs Wanda Guimarães, the Left Block brings to the debate legislative amendments to the Labour Code not by whim, as has been said here, but by responsibility and need to respond to more than half a million workers currently in Portugal. We got it, sirs. Members, that the PSD and the CDS want to give up this responsibility for responding to workers and stay out of this debate. The reasons for the need for the debate have already been — and well! — added: sleep disturbances, gastrointestinal, cardiovascular, chronic fatigue, metabolic problems, shift between working hours and social and family structure — where there is a predominance of divorce between shift workers, for example — boosting work accidents and early ageing, in addition to a quality of life that is frankly inferior to workers with a « normal» time. Mr Deputy, the collective contract and the guarantee, through the Labour Code, of conditions more favourable to the exercise of functions in this scheme is absolutely essential. The Assembly of the Republic cannot pretend that it does not see the problem and passes the resolution to conciliation, thus running away from its responsibilities and the necessary response to these thousands of workers. And the project that the Block presents takes into account not only what we heard from unions, because the Left Block always listens to unions and not only when it is appropriate, but also several scientific studies on the physical and psychological consequences for this segment of workers that cannot be ignored in any way. On the other hand, we know that there are several sectors of the economy which, because of their essence, need a continuous work regime, but we also know that there are others who use these schemes as an attempt to maximize profits, make up for resources and respond to social trends that do not look at the consequences for their own productivity or the lives of workers. Therefore, much of the shift workers have very large security requirements, both for them and for those who enjoy their services, and if we do not guarantee more rest between shifts, a time that does not exceed 35 hours, an increase in vacation days and the provision of early reforms, if we do not give these types of guarantees, we are mortgaged an increasing number of workers and workers, but also of users and users of services, and that is, yes, Parliament's responsibility. I leave only one witness that well illustrates the serious consequences for these workers. Cito : « Thirty years working on shifts and, instead of being contemplated with a reform, I have gained vital tremors». It is this kind of consequences for the workers, for more than half a million workers, that we are talking about and we already realize that part of this House does not want to address them, so we can continue to walk back in this matter. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, I ask: what is the Socialist Party's position on the project presented by the Left Block? [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u43	We believe that it is not enough to do the story of what has already been done, and much has been done, and very important for the workers, we must look at the consequences that are there, evidenced in the most varied scientific studies on shiftwork. So even for everything he said, and he identified problems that we also identified, what is the consequence of this identification? For us, it is very important that this kind of change to legislation happens, at the risk that we will continue to walk backwards in the rights of workers and not respond to more than half a million who have their lives mortgaged forever. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u44	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Carla Barros.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u45	Mr President, Mrs Wanda Guimarães, as we see, the Government has failed today in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u46	And I didn't have to be here!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u47	Someone who distributes a Regiment to the PSD bench!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u48	And, as you have missed, it is important to ask the Socialist Party to have a clearer and more objective position on this matter of shiftwork and nightwork.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u49	The government doesn't have to be!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u50	Mrs Rita Rato, I believe that the interests of the CFP would also be that of the Government in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u51	The Assembly can decide! PSD can vote! You don't want to talk about proposals, you want to talk about facts!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u52	Are you against me? You're not, Mrs. Deputy! The interest would also be of the PCP and the Left Block, instead of making the projects download to the committee without a vote. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u53	Mrs Wanda Guimarães, I would like to make it clear that the PSD has no doubt of the need to protect workers more and more in this area of shift and night work. And I also want to make it clear that we have no doubt that a very clear position is needed on this matter, because it has a direct and strong impact on the competitiveness of the companies that the country needs so much.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u54	Don't! Only the holidays! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u55	Therefore, Mrs. Wanda Guimarães, I would like you to answer some questions about financial accounts and impacts. This is the responsibility I will ask of the Socialist Party, in response to the proposals of the Left Block and the PCP. Therefore, to speak on account, I ask you whether, with regard to this proposal from the CFP, to give an increase in remuneration to the employees of the Public Administration who provide their service by shift and night, the honourable Member and her party have taken account of the impact of this measure on staff expenditure in the Public Administration. This question is even more important when we have received an alert from the Technical Unit for Budgetary Support (UTAO) for staff spending in the Public Administration is worrying and you are unable to manage this matter with due caution.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u56	PSD wants to limit people's right to impact!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u57	Mrs. Wanda Guimarães, we are speaking on account, we are talking on financial sustainability and, therefore, because we are talking on account, I would also like to know what the honourable Member has to say about this possibility of shift and night workers going to reform earlier.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u58	Does the PSD think it's wrong? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u59	Where's VV. Are you going to look for the financial cushion in social security to ensure the viability of this measure? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u60	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the situation is very simple: whenever the PSD puts these questions on accounts, financial impacts, sustainability of medium and long-term measures,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u61	PSD wants to limit people's rights to impacts! « by the mouth the fish dies! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u62	It seems that you accuse us of some evil. But, Mrs. Wanda Guimarães, for the PSD this is a very simple exercise, but it is the most responsible exercise, it is the most useful tool we find for the political debate and it is thus at the service of the Portuguese. If the honourable Member is able to answer my questions, it will give the PSD peace, it will give the workers peace of mind, it will give the Portuguese in general that what you intend to give today to the workers will not withdraw them tomorrow. Mrs. Deputy, I asked my questions. Do you have any accounts yet? You want to answer me, please. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u63	In reply, Mrs. Wanda Guimarães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u64	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the questions that have been put to me and, given the urgency of Mrs Carla Barros, I shall begin with exactly yours. And now, I take it to tell you that, indeed, I regret that this sense of responsibility which the honourable Member so insistently invokes has been completely absent from the four years of governance of her party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] As for giving quiet to the Portuguese, I think that really you were the champions of tranquility and social fracture... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... that is and has been present at all levels of Portuguese society during these four years. In fact, it would have been a good idea to put certain questions here,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u65	The questions have come from me to you!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u66	... after the four years in which they flagrantly violated labor relations in Portugal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u67	After the bankruptcy! After Socrates!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u68	... in which they have precariousd labor relations in Portugal and left thousands of workers without protection. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Therefore, the best thing is not to remember sad things and to tell you that, as I know, the Prime Minister of then was also not present in many of the debates that have been made here and many of his ministers have not answered the crucial issues that have been posed by the various sides of the Assembly of the Republic. [[All right!]] [[The numbers?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u69	Perhaps, because of my fragility, I regret that my intervention was not clear enough,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u70	It wasn't, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u71	... but what I did was to underline the statements made by Minister Vieira da Silva regarding the Green Paper, which seems to us to be the essential of the Socialist Party's position, and also the opening of the Socialist Party to new solutions, as it has always demonstrated in social issues for workers' protection. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u72	And, of course, this opening is implicit in the hearings that we will hold and in the public discussion period that we will have for 30 days. It cannot be said here that public discussion is greatly appreciated,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u73	If they valued it very much, they would vote! Don't vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u74	... that the left parties did not even fulfil this period and presented today the projects and at the same time put questions that can only be answered at the end of this public assessment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As for the other issue which has been raised here, I am very sorry, Mr Carlos Monteiro, but usually people and parties tend to see themselves in the mirror. The Minister of Labour has already publicly denied the question he has raised...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u75	No, no! He didn't deny it! Mr. Minister has to make a commitment!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u76	...and therefore it is not worth insisting. If the honourable Member is used to apply this system, if he sees himself in the mirror and projects others, we understand. Therefore, there is no false agreement,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u77	That's what we're gonna see!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u78	...there is nothing hidden or clandestine, if you want, about social consultation. And now let me tell you something: this is not a summary of social consultation. So, what's the role of the unions? Oh, my God! What is the role of collective bargaining? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u79	And the Parliament! [[The CDS-PP Member's laughs António Carlos Monteiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u80	We have, both with the Left Block and with the Communist Party — it is public and notorious — some differences in the solution of the problems, not their importance, but sometimes their resolution and the paths to be taken for its resolution. And we never hide it! Clearly, we always said it! [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u81	We therefore believe that the position of trade union organisations must be strengthened, their action must be valued and dignified, because there must indeed be a balance between what the House is discussing and proposing and what trade union organisations and social partners can achieve in the field. I wanted to tell Mrs Isabel Pires that no one runs away from her responsibilities and much less the Socialist Party. [[The CDS-PP Member's laughs António Carlos Monteiro.]] And we have given countless evidence in this regard, supported, indeed, by your bench. Therefore, we will always be, as we have been since the beginning of this government, as you know, doing all you can to improve not only the income of Portuguese and Portuguese but also significantly their living and working conditions. In this way, we will, in the view of valuing working relations, social dialogue and, of course, respect for the Assembly, which deserves our full consideration. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u82	Mr Pedro Roque has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Before starting my own intervention, allow me to make a precision regarding the intervention of the Socialist Party and Mrs. Wanda Guimarães, when she referred to the Northern Zone Teachers'Union as the PSD union. The PSD does not have unions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u84	Mr. Deputies had one!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u85	... the PSD respects union independence. There are, in the trade unions, organized trends and the PSD is proud, in fact, to have an organized trend in this union and its President to be a prominent activist of the Social Democrats ( TSD ) who is also, by chance, President of the General Workers Union. [[PSD applause.]] Therefore, when reference is made to unions on one side and to PSD on the other, it should be noted that the PSD has influence in the union world, the PSD listens to the union movement and the PSD has policies related to work that respect and listen to the union world. [[PSD applause.]] The Left-Hand Block positively, for today, in the Assembly of the Republic, the debate of a bill on amendments to the legal-laborative regime and the extension of social protection of work by shift and night.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u86	And that's some surprise? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u87	Immediately the PCP, as a champion of the struggle, does not give in, responds and advances with the project to strengthen workers' rights in the night and shift work regime.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u88	What's the surprise?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u89	In fact, it is vast the arsenal of legislative proposals existing in the archives of these two parties which, regularly and pilgrimagely, reemerge with due political update and the inevitable legislative remittances reviewed and updated. We agree that the issues related to both the so-called "work for shifts" and the "night work" are important and should be discussed, since both can have implications for family life and for the biological rhythm of workers. This debate will also be important insofar as both labour realities exist according to imperative economic and social needs which, of course, cannot lose their centrality in this discussion.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u91	However, using these themes to try to legislate in the wake of social consultation, where the interests of the parties are reconciled, thus seeking to change the existing provisions of the Labour Code and also conditioning the very space of collective bargaining, is to render poor service to the economy and workers. It is that these attempts to introduce voluntary mechanisms of loss of business competitiveness can ultimately result in the loss of jobs. Currently, the Labour Code in its Articles 220. the following, in addition to our frankly balanced opinion, resulted in a negotiating effort between the parties and respects the important issues and that it is important to beware of these matters. For shiftwork in Article 221. it is expected that : « (... ) 2 — The shifts should, as far as possible, be organized in accordance with the interests and preferences expressed by workers. 3 — The working duration of each shift may not exceed the maximum limits of normal working periods. 4 — The worker may change his or her shift only after the weekly rest day. 5 — The shift in the continuous working arrangements and those of workers who provide services which cannot be interrupted (...) shall be organised in such a way that the workers of each shift enjoy at least one day of rest in each seven-day period, without prejudice to the excess period of rest to which they are entitled.' The same can be said about night work, where in accordance with Article 224. the, « 2 — The normal daily working period of night worker, (...) shall not exceed eight hours a day, on average weekly (...). 4 — The night worker shall not provide more than eight hours of work within a period of twenty-four hours in which he performs night work in (... ) determined activities which involve special risks or significant physical or mental tension: (...) ». Ex. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We can therefore state that, before any amendments or improvements are legislated, the conciliation of interests and its legislative reflection, as reflected in the Labour Code, should be discussed in the social consultation first and then only afterwards, the legislative body should be called upon to pronounce itself. However, the revolutionary roots of the proponents lead to the reconciliation of interests as a capitalist contradiction and, soon, the working class of the revolution must be approached. And all this is particularly true in the holy year of the centenary of the October Revolution and a few days from another 1. May. The revolutionary primacy must therefore be tenaciously disputed. Regardless of the substantive reasons that lead the Left Block to choose these themes, obviously the timing of the choice cannot cease to be the subject of political analysis. The first aspect to be retained is a fratricidal struggle for the domain of the same political space. Apparently, the Block does not want to leave the communists the primacy in the championship of the alleged defense of the workers. On behalf of the so-called qualifier of the struggle, there is an entire common electorate to dispute between these two party forces in a battle without a quartile, although publicly untrustworthy. However, the second aspect is strategically more comprehensive. Some, although overwhelming supporters of the Socialist Government, seek to condition in appearance their action, acting as a sort of "savities of feet of clay" which, on the one hand, give the feeling of leading the legislative agenda and, on the other hand, are of extreme utility to the government, both in the pursuit of its Programme and in the maintenance of its power.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u92	All right! [[Protests by PS Member Carlos César.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u93	Some act as « paper tigers », hostages of the alliances that have signed and manipulated them and of which they illustrate themselves with such initiatives which are inevitably doomed to failure. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PCP Deputies Bruno Dias and Rita Rato.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u94	It is only "political"!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u95	Mr José Soeiro has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u96	Mr President, Mr Pedro Roque, we, who sit here, are elected Members directly by the people. This House of the Republic represents popular sovereignty and it is democratic legitimacy to make decisions, particularly on labour law. There was a revolution in Portugal that ended with the corporate system. We don't live in a corporate regime... [[Congratulations from BE.]] ...and this Parliament is not a second Chamber of Social Consultation! We have democratic legitimacy and responsibility to make choices, even though the PSD invokes social consultation and in practice there is in this Parliament a kind of committee representing the employers' interests. This Parliament has an obligation not to respond to these particular interests but to the majority and the difficulties that people and the economy feel. The honourable Member has brought to this debate many common places, a lot of talk, but little reflection on the problems that need to be discussed. The problem of the Portuguese economy, Mr Deputies, is not the alleged lack of productivity of Portuguese workers, in fact increasingly qualified. The problem of the Portuguese economy, Mr Deputies, is not the costs of work, supposedly excessive and that were the obsession of the PSD and CDS in a country where 10 % of the labour force lives in poverty, even with a wage. The problem of the Portuguese economy is not overwhelmed, it is not the labour costs, nor is it, Mr President, the alleged rigidity of the labour market, of our forms of regulation of labour relations, as if we introduced into the law forms of organization of work, nor is it the fact that we introduce into the law forms of organization of work, as we propose, that they be respectful of the worker and that they be able to reconcile life with work. This is the debate we are having here, Mr President. We do not have a problem of rigid labour law; on the contrary, we have a problem of leaving too many "holes" in labour legislation that allow us to be precarious, of not looking at the reality that we have and having a business class that has not only become used to breaking the law and living this in a impunity way as it used to rule out collective bargaining and, therefore, to have an increasingly precarious and domesticized workforce. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The problems of the economy, Mr President, are structural weaknesses that we need to correct, it is a specialisation profile of our economy that is based on low value added sectors and, above all, on a low wage model. What we need to correct in our economy is the waste of qualifications from an economy, which is unable to absorb the skills that the training system itself has created in Portugal, the lack of investment, the fact that work is poorly distributed. Mr President, nothing more false than saying that a bill like this that the Left Block brings the debate will create unemployment. on the contrary, we are talking about a society capable of distributing work and ensuring working conditions for all, and that is job creation, it is distribution of the work that exists, it is consideration for work. This is just the point I wanted to get to, that is, the problem of our economy is that in recent years there have been intense years of disregard for work, of worker's economic disregard, of the changes that the PSD/CDS government introduced into labour legislation and which meant an unprecedented transfer of EUR 36 billion from labour income to capital and also a personal disregard of the worker himself. Changes to the law have been introduced which mean forms of numbness and humiliation of workers. Now, we do not need companies with archaic work organisation regimes. That is why the debate we are discussing today is also about how we organize the work that Portugal needs, that our economy needs and, above all, that we respect the workers. There are transformations in the economy and in the organization of social life itself that have grown the sectors, businesses and services that work in extended times. The challenge of the law is to ensure that these transformations do not correspond to a form of abuse against people, which is, at the moment, what happens to shiftwork. On the contrary, we need legislation that covers this type of work, respecting, guaranteeing people their right to rest, creating forms of organization of working time that make it compatible with social life and family life and recognizing the wear and penosity of whom, every day, is in this kind of regime. But on this, Mr President, I have not seen you bring any proposals here. [[Protests by PSD MP Pedro Roque.]] To say that what is in the Labour Code is almost an offense to these workers, especially from the two parties — from the PSD too — that they said that it was necessary to listen to representative organisations. Sir, have you heard of them? Have you heard what the unions say about this? Have you ever heard of shift workers? Have you heard the life stories of night workers? Do you know the proposals of workers' representative organisations? Mr President, you should not know, because there is no representative organisation of workers in Portugal, there is no worker for shifts or nights who does not recognize that the regime we have does not respond to their difficulties, that the regime we do not recognize the penosity of their work, that the regime we currently do not guarantee to shift workers and night workers the dignity to which they are entitled. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u97	Mr Pedro Roque, there is still another inscription to ask for clarification. Do you intend to respond now or at the end?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u98	If possible, I will respond now, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u99	Therefore, you have the floor to answer, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u100	Mr President, Mr Soeiro, I begin by thanking you for the long questions you have put to me and saying that — and I hope my answer is shorter than your questions — I agree with you when you say that this House is the popular representation. That is the constitutional framework in which, fortunately, we live, is an idiosyncrasy of a liberal democracy, in which we all see ourselves. This is the legislative body of the Portuguese Republic and this is absolutely undeniable. I then strongly disagreed with everything I said, especially when it says that the Standing Committee on Social Concertation is a sort of corporate chamber, which is still a paradox: we have the CGTP (General Confederation of Portuguese Workers) represented in the corporate chamber of the Portuguese Republic, which is the social concertation. It's absolutely remarkable. And, in fact, this reflects a whole difference — and it was interesting to know where the PS is in this debate — between two views of society: one, reflects the class struggle, the work against capital, and, in fact, in these 100 years of the October Revolution, nothing like to invoke this difference well;... [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] ... secondly, it reconciles the interests, which is on the side of tripartism, which is the leitmotiv of the International Labour Organization, which will also be 100 years ago, and in which, in fact, the interests are represented by the Government, the representatives of the workers, the representatives of the business associations, and is this virtuous triangle that is born the necessary balances so that labour law can, on the one hand, confer rights on workers and, on the other, benefit the economy and ultimately the levels of employment of a given country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u101	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u102	That is fundamental, it is not enough to fill your mouth with the workers. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] When we withdraw competitiveness from the economy, this inevitably results in worse working conditions and,... [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] ...more serious than that, unemployed.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u103	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u104	We did not run away from the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u105	Don't you? Oh,
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u106	So say there!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u107	When I said that the Labour Code is balanced, that does not mean that there can be no debate, a discussion, firstly, in the context of social dialogue and then, of course, here in Parliament, to legislate itself in order to improve itself, but, taking into account, always, but always, these balances, which are fundamental and cannot be changed as the Left Block aims, because that is in fact to disbalance society and render a bad service to everyone. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u108	Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u109	Mr President, Mr Pedro Roque, I have heard you talk about the pulpit on political primacy, revolutionary legitimacy, social democracy. He did a lot of tactical analysis, he made some political comment, which is always to record, but did not talk much about the projects that are being appreciated today in this House. [[Protests by PSD MP Pedro Roque.]] We understand that the PSD and the CDS are confusing a period of compulsory public consultation with the discharge to the committee without a vote. I realized this slight lapse in your speech. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Filipe Anacoreta Correia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u110	There's no lapse!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u111	The gentlemen. Members, who also wanted to talk about accounts, spoke to us about the need to put accounts on the table. And this comes from the parties that told us that, if we increased the minimum wage, by your account, unemployment would increase; this comes from the parties that told us that, by your account, if we refused the holidays, unemployment would increase! Now, today, we already have some accounts, after we do not do and do not follow the accounts that you have presented, and employment is growing at the highest level, in two decades,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u112	... consumer confidence is at the highest of the last 20 years, the value of exports has always been the highest, the economic climate is at the highest of the last 15 years, the income available from families has increased, with you it has fallen 6 %, 5 %. Would you like some bills? Here you have several accounts to accompany your debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u113	But Socrates took us to bankruptcy, didn't he? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u114	We also heard about union independence, about social dialogue, about unions, about employers, about the enhancement of social dialogue. Mr. Pedro Roque, I have a very direct question for you. the last time the Socialist Party initiated this social dialogue and reached an agreement in the context of social dialogue, you voted against it in this Parliament. Will the Socialist Party, obtaining a new agreement, in the context of social consultation, for this or other matter, or will it not count on the PSD? Or will the PSD talk about conciliation on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays, to come here, to the plenary, to vote against any agreement that is obtained in this consultation, contrary to what is being defended here? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u115	To reply, Mr Pedro Roque has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u116	Mr President, I begin by greeting Mr. Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro of the Socialist Party, for the questions posed and for finding something that I like, which is the fact that the Socialist Party, by the way, does not regard social dialogue as a corporate chamber, which is already a very important and which registers with much pleasure. The honourable Member has accused me of running away from the subject. Well, I don't know where the honourable Member was when it was the intervention of the Socialist Party, who went around and made everything less talk about it! Therefore, it was an intervention, I would say, exceptional, from a technical point of view, but politically, it completely escaped the subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u117	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u118	Therefore, I deduce from your words that will support the initiatives of the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party. That's what I understood.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u119	I want to see them vote for them!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u120	I am a little surprised, but I would like to know exactly where they are: if, in fact, they feel that this is such an important issue, so important, that it is worth escaping from social consultation again, or if, on the contrary, they think that eventually, as it is an important subject, it can and should be launched by the Government in social consultation to seek an understanding between the partners and, at a later stage, to come to Parliament, to have a public consultation and, therefore, to follow all the legislative process that is customary. As for the theme of the TSU (unique social rate), I did not run away to the subject, obviously, and left it for the end of purpose. Mr President, if you had been anyone else to intervene by the Democratic Social Party and you had put that issue, I would understand. Now, to me, as the leader of a structure of the Social Democratic Party, autonomously linked to the union movement and to the world of work, having I taken the public position that I took? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u121	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u122	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u123	I would be the last person you should ask this question.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u124	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u125	I am the last person to whom you should ask this question, because you know exactly what my opinion on this matter was, and that was not a personal opinion, was an opinion of the structure that I am leading.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u126	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u127	Therefore, if there is a structure that respects social consultation, it is that of social-democratic workers. And, overall, the Social Democratic Party is a party of social dialogue and a party that always respects social dialogue. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u128	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party for having brought to discussion a set of proposals on a matter as important as night work and shift work. It is an important matter not only because shiftwork currently covers around 10 % of our country's workforce but also because it is a reality whose trend clearly indicates a significant increase in the number of people working in that regime. In fact, more and more people are working on shifts, in some cases it is because the very objective requirements of living in society so oblige, as is the case for people working in hospitals or even security forces, in other cases these requirements result from the way of production that requires a continuous production process and there are cases that are the result of legislative options, resulting from political options. I am referring, for example, to the ability given to the large commercial areas to liberalise working hours and, consequently, to working hours, working until later and, above all, with the possibility of opening on Sunday. These decisions, or those actions that have been made to the large commercial areas, have not only made it more difficult for local trade, small trade, with serious consequences on our food dependence and our production, as they have still given a great boost to the number of people working on shifts. This situation carries with it serious consequences, of course, at the level of the family life of these workers, but not only. in fact, the studies indicate very clearly that shiftwork, especially when involving night or weekend periods, causes additional problems for workers, both biologically and psychologically or family. As we know, in addition to being a heavier job, shiftwork requires much more wear and, in our view, the current legislative framework does not respond to the needs of these workers. In view of this framework, this House must be aware of this reality, especially when we know that the various changes to labour legislation had as their main objective to de-protect those who work and weaken the instruments where this matter could be dealt with, from the outset, collective bargaining. In fact, the deplorable imposition of the expiry of collective labour instruments intentionally led to the weakening of trade unions' negotiating capacity and also sought to individualize labour relations. Moreover, the individualization of labour relations, which naturally fosters precariousness, is very marked at the level of shiftwork with serious damage to workers. It is therefore important to take legislative measures to minimize the effects of shiftwork and nightwork. It is necessary to clarify concepts such as the concept of shiftwork or nightwork. It is necessary to restore the fixation of night work between 20 hours and 7 hours. It is necessary to extend access to medical examinations and health care to shift workers and night workers. It is necessary to distance the application of the deregulation mechanism from working hours, in the case of night work and shift work. It is also necessary to establish the right to advance the retirement age of these workers. I would like to say, very briefly, that the Greens accompany the authors of these two proposals which we are discussing today, because, in their view, they bring more justice to labour relations, both in terms of shiftwork and nightwork.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u130	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u131	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block and the Communist Party call us today to discuss changes to the law of shifts and night work. To do so, they make use of a power agenda. In this way, they saw a surgical and punctual change to the Labour Code. This is, in our view, worth a positive reading. Firstly, and of course, it must be concluded that these parties have already complied with the merit of the latest labour reform.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u133	What?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u134	in fact, if they only want a timely amendment of the Labour Code, it is because the reversal of that reform is not at least urgent. And that's good news for the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u135	It's a hearing problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u136	It should be noted that this is at least the third time that, at the initiative of one or both parties, this is discussed here in the Assembly of the Republic. He argued in 2001 in the Government of Antonio Guterres, and the Socialist Party was against. He argued in 2006 in the time of the government of José Socrates, and the Socialist Party was against. Today, in the time of António Costa, and for the first time in history, the Socialist Party has no position. for our part, we are well aware and can not let a misunderstanding go: the current law, as it exists today, already differs from shiftwork and nightwork. Let's not get people into a wrong perception. I repeat, the current law already differentiates shiftwork and nightwork. But we are aware, and it is from the knowledge of the CDS, that certain workers are subject to unacceptable abuses, which we accompany with most of the concerns. This is a matter, because it must be worth our attention, always looking for solutions that do not question the essentials. The work exists for human realization and there is no real development if it does not ultimately fall into an experience that benefits and frees the person and the human community. In our view, however, the proposals they bring us today have two serious vices. First, they are decontextualized and do not result from any social dialogue. Secondly, they reflect an outdated vision that promotes conflict and an antagonistic vision between employers and workers. No, the problems of workers are not solved simply by decreeing more fees, more costs and more fines for those who create jobs. It is therefore important that we fit the changes in the labour code into the challenges that this reality presents to us today. In recent decades we have seen a marked shift in the paradigm in economic relations, with a strong impact on labour relations. We do not yet know how far these changes will threaten job creation and compromise the balance of labour relations and market opening capacity for new generations. But we already have data that points us to a deep need to face the challenges ahead. We don't always have the ability to adapt and much less adapt to change, so as to enhance what we all want: a dynamic economy capable of attracting people and capitals, creating wealth and fair distribution of gains. This is the generational challenge that we have in our hands: to reconcile the entrepreneurial will that pushes the risk and boldness of those who invest with the need to rethink the legal and labor framework in which we affirm ourselves, without questioning the essential of human dignity and realization. The Left Block and the Communist Party have been kings in defense of the past. They imposed on the vocabulary the language of the reversal as the main political program and the Socialist Party has gone to the blight of this reactionary will, as appropriate. Here and there you satisfy that will, sometimes even for that. at the end of the day, we saw a misappropriation of policies and discourse, without any link or directional coherence regarding the future. Portugal needs much more than that. In just one year of government we have heard everything: « We need to go back », « No, we will not move any further into labour law », « After all, we will negotiate amendments, budget the budget ». Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the country is not a cattle market and the Portuguese are certainly not the heads of any power negotiation. What we expect is the answer to concrete questions that affect people and that result from the reality we are facing today. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the time we are given to live requires more of us than this; it certainly requires parties more than looking back or looking at reality in a simplistic way. No, we are not going to put companies against workers, we need companies and we need to equip them with conditions to settle down and help growth. Let us look at those who do so, not at the expense of the workers, but at the expense of the workers. for our part, on the part of the CDS-PP, that is what we are committed to, and that is why we will contribute to concrete proposals that seek to take steps in the right direction. More than a short-term policy, we want a positive policy that integrates the complexity of problems and responds to the specific needs of people and businesses. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u137	For an intervention, you have the floor of Mrs Merces Borges Soares, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u138	Mr President, allow me, in your own person, to apologize to all of you and to all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, by my voice, but I will try to be clear.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u139	She's like mine, Mrs. Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u140	Mr. President, I'm like time! [[Laughing.]] Let us debate today, in this plenary, night and shift work. The PSD Parliamentary Group recognises that this is a relevant matter. It is not easy to work outside our normal and biological rhythm, this has profound changes and implications in people's health, but this stems from the need of society and the Labour Code itself contemplates the recognition that these workers must be given different conditions than when they perform their duties in a normal time, i.e. daytime and in the same permanent shift. But we also all recognize that the world is experiencing a profound, rapid technological change that is difficult to achieve by our ability as a human being, and we cannot ignore that this technological evolution has implications for the organization of work and how we will perform it in the future. Consider the case of digitization and increasing automation. I cannot fail to recognize that the issue should be discussed and welcomed in all forums, particularly in which amendments to the Labour Code should take place. I remember the headquarters of social consultation, where many or almost all changes to the Labour Code were made — it is logical, without the participation of the CGTP! But in democracy each has its own position and in 43 years of democracy I do not remember the CGTP signing another agreement, in addition to the agreement on vocational training.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u141	The minimum wage in 2006!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u142	For this reason, the parties that see themselves in this union center constantly present bills on matters that want to be altered.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u143	And what were we doing there?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u144	at this moment, almost strange that come to bring here the debate a bill without having been subjected to public discussion, because in the past, when a bill came to plenary without its public discussion we were cruxified: "Alas, the dictators who are sitting here, who did not make the public appreciation! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” The gentlemen. Members of the PCP and the Left Block do not want me to remind you of the statements they have made, but I can remind you, if there are any memory failures. But today is no longer a problem and it's not a problem, why? Because you are considering that, by lowering the PS bill to the committee, your coalition partners will do with him the same thing they did with so many others—maybe about 30 people walk there! There's no interest, no schedule, it's for walking, it's for walking! But even more: the Left Block went to its past bay to look for a 2006 bill. He adapted clothing, because now he does not dress the same way, do not approach things the same way, but the theme and articles are almost all the same, I took care of the "pear". At the time, in 2006, with a PS government, in which the Minister was the same as the current one, which is amazing! — What did your partner say? He said it was inappropriate, that it was inappropriate because it was in the center of social dialogue. What a scare, what a scare! But another startling: the amendment made to the Labour Code by the current Minister and at the centre of social consultation has changed precisely what you now, in this bill, have proposed that it be resumed. Bagão Félix, in the CDS / PSD Government, did not change this matter, who changed it was the current Minister and the PS government, who passed the night shift from 20 hours to 22 hours. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]] Madam Member, don't worry about it, go see, analyze and find out, then, what is this debate: a vanity fair, a parade between the Left Block and the PCP. The PCP has scheduled for day 4 a debate on concertation and the Left Block...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u145	He can't even say 'contracting'!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u146	... collective bargaining. As I said, the Left Block, because we're close to the 1st. the May one, afraid of losing the electorate that they both compete, but did not do more than go double and rescind the bill from the trunk. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this matter is much more important than a mere vanity fair and a parade.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u147	What about the matter?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u148	I have already said, Mr, it is extremely important, but not as a parade of vanity, not as a competition of the same political space, not to account for, because there is no agreement with the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u149	Are you going to vote in favour?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u150	What is the PS gonna do? You're going to put the project on the reservation, on the Commission, and it's never gonna be messed up again, you're not going to walk! I and all the Members of the PSD Parliamentary Group will be here to see.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u151	Mrs. Deputy, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u152	I shall conclude, Mr President. But more: what you are trying to do is win the hearts of the workers. Mrs. Members, the lives of workers go much further by a competitive economy, by solid companies that can give workers the best conditions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u153	Workers' rights!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u154	... a decent, quality job that preserves your health, a job that you deserve. The workers are no property of anyone, the workers are free and the example is that if they were not the votes of many workers, the PSD Parliamentary Group would not have the representativeness nor the number of Members sitting on this bench. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u155	For a final intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, at the conclusion of this debate, listening to Mrs Maria das Mercês Borges, I thought that, at some point, the PSD would say something about the concrete proposals that are under discussion. But no, the PSD wanted to do the same as the CDS and ignore that Parliament has the opportunity to discuss these matters and take significant steps in defining a shift value subsidy, in defining the anticipation of the retirement age for shift workers, in guaranteeing measures to monitor the health of these workers, and therefore the PSD and the CDS prefer to ignore that we can take measures to value work and to recognise wear and weariness of shift work and say things that have little interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u157	It was the PS that changed! Talk to the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u158	But on the side of the CFP, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we want to say the following: the proposals we bring here have nothing to be late, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, have progress and what they want, in fact, is to value a regime that is deeply exhausting and painful for workers and to guarantee the strengthening of their rights. Mr Deputies, shiftwork and definition of nightwork already exist, does not bring great news by stating this. You say there's abuse? For there are and there is a need to combat them, and therefore there must be inspectors of the Labour Conditions Authority in an appropriate number rather than what you did when you had the Ministry of Employment, which was to allow you to achieve the historical minimum of inspectors of the Act. So this is a parallel work.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u159	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u160	I'm done now, Mr. President. Another thing is to hear the opinion of the honourable Members. Members of the PS, the PSD and the CDS on the replacement of the night working time, from 20 hours to not 22 hours, or on the conditions for early retirement age.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u161	Who changed it was the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u162	That is why, Mr. President, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the CFP will continue to hold this debate because it is essential. We know we don't count on the PSD or the CDS, but the workers won't be surprised at that either. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u163	For one last speech on this debate, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate, marked by the Left Block, is of the greatest importance. We know that PSD and CDS did not really want to have a debate and that even the Socialist Party, in this matter, did not want to come to the game. But to those who consider that every debate that touches people's lives is summed up in politicism, I must say that there is no ongoing competition and, with all the opening, the Left Block told all the benches that it was available to, in its schedule,... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u165	...to allow all bills to be discussed. The fact is that PSD, CDS and PS did not want to present their subjects, their ideas on a topic that affects almost two workers in every ten, and that is what will mark a part of this debate. But there is also a second point that is marked by this debate: the idea that right now, PSD and CDS, have discovered, that there are workers in Portugal and that they must be heard! [[BE's laughs.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Maria das Mercês Borges.]] And I ask you, ladies and gentlemen. Members, but when the PSD and the CDS cut off the holiday allowance to workers and pensioners, did they hear the social consultation? Did you hear the workers? They didn't listen! When they cut the holiday allowance, did they hear the workers or social consultation? They didn't listen! When they reduced the value of extraordinary hours, did they hear the workers? They didn't listen! How much did they cut the disease allowance or when they cut the unemployment allowance, heard the workers or heard the social consultation? They didn't listen! When, for example, they cut off the pension supplement to workers in the state business sector, did the workers hear? They didn't listen! Did you hear the social concert? They didn't listen! And why didn't you hear them? We know well what the PSD and CDS think of both the workers and their representative bodies, and even social consultation. When it comes to withdrawing rights and if you know that a "no" can come from there, you don't want to hear anything, you don't want to hear anyone, you want to cut, whatever it takes, you pray to those who hurt! That's the reality! [[Congratulations from BE.]] But when they know that the bosses can be the force of the blockade of the country and thus block the social dialogue, they already accept that social dialogue is the centre of the debate! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we do not accept that the debates on important matters such as labour regulation are handled by this instrumentalization of social dialogue and we do not accept that this House of Deputies and Members elected by the people to legislate, to monitor the government, is in the pocket of any social consultation. That is what we do not accept, and therefore we have started this debate. But we know well that throughout the debate this "says I said" about social dialogue, about the public discussion that the CDS and PSD have now discovered, has only served for something else but not to discuss the essentials of what is on the table. The CDS, PSD and PS said it was essential to answer a very important question such as the discussion of shift labour law. But have you brought any ideas? Don't! Have you brought any proposals? Don't! The only thing PSD and CDS have said is that, despite being very important and having a great impact on people's lives, it should not move into what already exists. Now, we do not accept this immobilism of those who talk a lot about doing little. Today, the volume of shiftwork and nightwork is much greater than ever before and the liberalisation of working hours has led to a deregulation of all working hours and an increase in exploitation through shiftwork and nightwork. To deny this reality is to deny the evolution of society and therefore also to deny the answers that a new situation deserves. We know, and I believe it is a general consensus, that shiftwork requires greater family sacrifice, deregulation of family life, takes away time from those who are the most noble moments in the family. For example, a shift worker cannot put his children down, accompany them in the housework, have family life in order to have a quality of life in the follow-up to his children. We know that, in addition to these social effects, shiftwork has effects on people's health, because there is more absenteeism, because there are more diseases, some of them in the psychological forum, and they have more physical and emotional wear. We also know that shiftwork has more occupational consequences — it has consequences, for example, for safety in the performance of work. These are not matters of opinion, they are facts that are studied. We well know what was another challenge of the PSD and the CDS: « Let us vote now so that we can bring this down and we will not listen to anyone who understands the matter in Parliament! But no, we don't give you that toast!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u166	It's the PS you have to talk to!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u167	Let us hear who understands the matter in Parliament, the scientists who study, the doctors who accompany and the responsible and representative bodies of the workers, who will come to say why it is important to change the law of shifts. They wanted to put this debate in the drawer, but we will not give you that luck! They will have to say, eyes in the eyes, workers, experts, because they want to deny the reality and the impacts that shiftwork has and thus continuously deprotect these workers. We tell what we saw; we clearly say, with a legislative initiative, what we consider necessary to change to improve the protection of these workers and of these workers: we say that there should be more days of rest for those who work for shifts and those who have night work; we say that there should be access to early retirement, because there is much more wear than for other workers; and we also say that there must be a wage supplement to pay for that additional effort that is required for these workers and for these workers. Some of you will ask. Members: "Is that all? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” No, we're available to discuss more. We are available to discuss everything, there are ideas and there is no closing in the immobilist casule of who wants nothing on the part of the PSD and CDS or this escape to the debate by the PS, giving the idea that social consultation will say something about this matter. We do not resign from our obligations and hope that the other Members and Members will not do so either. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u168	Mrs. Members, we thus give the discussion of the projects of lein. 496 and 508 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), scheduled by marking the Left Block. Before we enter the voting period, I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to take account of two initiatives that have entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and were admitted, draft resolutions Nos 824 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Continental Shelf ( PSD ), which falls to 3. a and 7. the Commission, and 825 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote a massive agricultural insurance disclosure campaign and increased coverage of special insurance ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 7. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u170	Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us therefore enter the voting period. I call on the services that operate the electronic system for the verification of the deliberation quorum. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 187 presences, to which are added those of the Members. Deputies José Luís Ferreira, de Os Verdes, Clara Marques Mendes, Crisóvão Norte, Luís Marques Guedes, Manuel Frexes, Nilza de Sena, Pedro Passos Coelho and Pedro Roque, do PSD, and Lara Martinho, do PS, performing 196 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes. Let us begin by voting No 291/ XIII ( 2. ( a ) — With praise for the sporting results achieved by the Portuguese paralympic athlete Lenin Cunha ( CDS-PP, PS, PSD, PCP, BE and Os Verdes ), which will be read by Mr António Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Portuguese Lenin Cunha was elected the best paralympic athlete in the world by the International Federation for Athletes with Intellectual Deficiency, in a gala that took place last weekend in Brisbane, Australia. This international recognition deserves the praise of your country. With a professional career of 14 years, in modalities such as triple jump, decatlo, pentatlo, heptatlo, jump with stick and jump in length, Lenin Cunha is the athlete who raised the Portuguese flag more and higher. Born in Vila Nova de Gaia 33 years ago, he was the victim of a sudden attack of meningitis at the 4 years that left him without memory, speech, hearing, vision and locomotive. But Lenin Cunha never got over the obstacles, which, on the contrary, were a source of motivation, attachment to life and sport, struggling daily to be the best. Lenin Cunha, who has already represented Portugal more than 40 times, is the holder of several world records and is the athlete who has won the most medals all over the world: only international are so far 188. Even last March, the European Pentathlo Championship ( INAS ) in Prague took five medals for Portugal ( one gold, three silver and one bronze) and was considered the best athlete in the competition. His strength and determination enabled him to reach the top of the world. It is a reference in sport, an inspiration for athletes and an example for all. The Assembly of the Republic commends the athlete Lenin Cunha for his example of life and for the results achieved in the sports field, which should be a cause for pride for all. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u172	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[General applause.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 14 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establishment of a possible public and external debt assessment committee ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u173	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u174	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u175	Mr President, to inform us that the PS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u176	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall generally vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on draft law No 15 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — establishes the principle of non- privatization of the water sector by amending Law No 58 / 2005 of 29 December approving the Water Law, with amendments introduced by Decree-Law No 60 / 2012 of 14 March 2012 and Decree-Law No 130 / 2012 of 22 June ( The Greens) ( the author withdrew his initiative in favour of the replacement text ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u177	It's incredible that the PSD and CDS voted against!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u178	We shall vote in favour of the plenary of the indexary votes held at the Commission's special session. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Finally, we shall proceed to the overall final vote of the same replacement text presented by the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u179	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u180	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u181	Mr President, to indicate the presentation of a statement of vote on the subject we have just voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-27.u182	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We move on to the overall final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 58 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — establishes the principles and rules of cross-border exchange of information relating to the practice of road offences in a Member State and transposes Directive 2015 / 413 / EU. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 59 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — adapts to the domestic legal system the obligations arising from Decision 2008 / 615 / JHA and Decision 2008 / 616 / JHA, which executes it as the data transmission of the vehicle registration for the purposes of detection and investigation of criminal offences. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of BE.]] We shall proceed to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the drafts of lein. 305 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amendment to Decree-Law No 241 / 2007 of 21 June defining the legal regime applicable to Portuguese firefighters in the continental territory ( PSD ), 373 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alterly Decree-Law No 241 / 2007 of 21 June ( Defines the legal regime applicable to Portuguese firefighters in the mainland ), establishing rules on the dispensation of firefighters who perform functions in the Public Administration ( CDS-PP ) and 379 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amends Decree-Law No 241 / 2007 of 21 June defining the legal regime applicable to Portuguese firefighters in the continental territory ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, after the vote, we have reached the end of our agenda today. The next plenary meeting will be held on Thursday, 4 May, beginning at 15 p.m. since, as you know, the CDS-PP carries out its parliamentary days on Tuesday and Wednesday, 2 and 3 May. the order of work consists, by marking the PCP, the general discussion of the draft law no. 169 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Reinforces the most favourable treatment principle and regulates the succession of collective labour conventions by amending the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( CFP ). There will be any vote at the end of the debate. I wish everyone a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 8 minutes.]]
