ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Members of the Staff and Members of the Commission. Officials, Journalists and Members. Journalists, let's start our plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 3 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of authority and the officials of authority to open the doors of the galleries to the public. Before we begin today's agenda, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, will do the favor of reading the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, the following legislative initiatives: draft resolutions Nos 1090 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of conditions for the replacement of agricultural activity in areas affected by fires ( PSD ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1091 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the reforestation of the National Lawn Forest ( PSD ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1092 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to strengthen support for children and young people with cancer ( PSD ), 1093 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ). — Recommends that the Government work towards the Central Health System Administration, IP ( ACSS ) open a new period of submission of applications for the issue of professional ballots intended only for non-conventional therapy students who completed their courses after 2 October 2013 ( CDS-PP ), 1094 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthening measures in the area of pediatric oncology and support for children and adolescents with cancer and their families ( PCP ), 1095 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement several measures aimed at the protection of children with cancer and their families/caregivers ( NAP), 1096 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government improve the analysis and assessment of the situation of Portuguese migrants ( CDS-PP ), 1097 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to support children and young people with cancer as well as their caregivers ( BE), 1098 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the inclusion of the nutritional light in the food packaged ( BE ), which falls to 7. the Commission, and 1099 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the review of the legal regime of goldsmiths and contrasts ( BE ) ; projects of lein.o 646 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend rules for the operation and access to the Salary Guarantee Fund and strengthen workers'rights ( CFP ), 647 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Reimposes amounts and calculation rules for termination of the contract of employment and dismissal ( PCP ), which is lower than 10. the Commission, 648 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 71 / 2013 of 2 September regulating Law No 45 / 2003 of 22 August 2003 on the professional exercise of non-conventional therapeutic activities, amending the scheme for the allocation of professional ballot papers ( PAN) and 651 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Responsives the public employer for the costs arising from the vocational training and certification of the worker ( BE ). Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is also important to announce the results of the elections that took place during the last plenary session. Thus, for the Internal Security Council, the following result was found: they voted 211 Members, with 117 votes « yes », 79 white votes and 15 null votes, and so it was declared not elected Mr Jorge Lacão ( PS ). With regard to the ERA Regulatory Council — Regulatory Entity for Social Communication, the following result was found: 211 Members voted, with 133 votes « yes» recorded, 72 white votes and 6 null votes, and therefore declared not to elect the proposed list with the members Francisco de Paula Melo de Azevedo e Silva, João Pedro Nunes Lemos Figueiredo, Maria de Fátima Gravata de Resende Lima and Mário António da Mota Mesquita. with regard to the Supervisory Board of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic, the result was the following: they voted 211 Members and registered 132 votes 'yes', 72 white votes and 7 null votes, and therefore declared themselves not elected Abílio Manuel Pinto Rodrigues de Almeida Morgado. As regards the position of the Ombudsman, the following result was found: 211 Members voted, with 143 votes 'yes' recorded, 61 white votes and 7 null votes, and the candidate Maria Lúcia of the Abrantes Amaral Conception was declared elected because she obtained the constitutionally qualified majority required for this purpose. As regards the National Data Protection Commission ( CNPD ), the result was that 210 Members were voted on, with 174 votes « yes » recorded, 33 white votes and 3 null votes declared elected, as President, Maria Filipa Pires Urbano da Costa Calvão and Vogal, José Grazina Machado. With regard to the Supervisory Board of DNA Profiles Database, the result was the following: they voted 211 Members, having registered 152 votes « yes», 52 white votes and 7 null votes, so they declared themselves elected Maria João da Silva Baila Madeira Antunes, as President, and Paulo Miguel da Silva Santos and Inês Dias Lamego. For the position of President of the National Education Council, the following result was found: they voted 211 Members, having registered 159 votes 'yes', 44 white votes and 8 null votes, and therefore declared elected Maria Emília Brederode Rodrigues dos Santos. With regard to the representatives of the representatives of the parliamentary groups in the National Education Council, the result was: they voted 211 Members, with 161 votes « yes », 43 votes were cast, 43 votes were white and 7 votes void, and therefore they declared themselves elected elected as effective members, Nilza Marília Marília Mouzzinho de Sena (PSDP ), Porfirio Simões de Carvalho e Silva ( PS ), Manuel Fernando Rosa Eugénia Nobre Gamboa ( BE ), Arlindo Henrique Lobo Borges ( CDS-PP ), Francisco José José Santana Nunes do Santos ( PCP ) and Antero de Oliveira Resende ( O Os Verdes ) and, as alternate members, Maria Eu alternate members, Maria Euegeria Noronha and Castro Maria Euugia Noude Nobova (DP Dúlia Nos Dúlia Gamba ( Maria JS-PP ), Maria JS-PP ), and I would also add, and I would give the rights and I was rewarded as a as a blessing and I was added., and I was also also, and I was rewarded as a as a blessing and I was added. and I was added. I was also also in in in in in in in in in the election. and I was also, I was rewarded and I was rewarded and I was rewarded and I was rewarded and I was rewarded and I was rewarded. I was rewarded and I was rewarded. I was rewarded. I was rewarded. I was also in in in in in in. I was also, I was also, I was also, I was elected and I was rewarded and I was rewarded and I was elected and I was also in in in. I was rewarded and I was rewarded and I was rewarded and I was rewarded. I was able and I was rewarded and I was also in in. I was also, I was rewarded. I was also in in. I was also, I was elected, I was also in in in in. I was also in the and I was also in in the and I was up and I was also in in. I was in in the among among among among among among among among among among among among all all all all all all all all all all all all all all throughout throughout throughout throughout throughout throughout the and I was up in the Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is also important to take into account a report and opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees which must be voted on immediately, because it relates to the resume of office in accordance with Article 6 ( 1 ( c ). the Statute of Deputies, of Deputies Catarina Marcelino ( PS ), electoral circle of Setúbal, and of Mr Jorge Gomes ( PS ), electoral circle of Bragança, leaving, respectively, the Deputy Francisca Parreira and the Deputy Julia Rodrigues, with effect from 21 October, including. The same report and opinion also refers to the waiver of the mandate in accordance with Article 7 ( 1 ). the Statute of the Deputies, of Mrs Luísa Salgueiro ( PS ), the electoral circle of the Port, assuming, in accordance with Article 9 ( 1 ). the Statute of the Deputies, the Urban Constance of Sousa ( PS ), with effect from 21 October, including. The opinion is in the sense of the resumption, termination, waiver and assumption concerned to be admitted, since the legal requirements are met.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] No objection, we'll vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Now, yes, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, let us begin our work, not without thanking Mr Duarte Pacheco, for this ability to talk once again about the changing waves of talks between the Members of Parliament and the Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen. Let us then begin the debate of the motion of censure No 1 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — because of government failures in the 2017 tragic fires ( CDS-PP ). In order to speak, at the opening of the debate, you have the floor of Mrs Cristian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u4	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The year 2017 remains for our history as the year in which the Portuguese State failed in two of its most basic tasks: the protection of people and the protection of their territory. He failed crying twice, on two fateful occasions, separated by four months: first time, in June, in the area of Pedrogão Grande; second time, in October, a little across the center and north of the country. This failure had and has an unimaginable, unbearable, unpublished cost. One hundred and ten Portuguese lost their lives and all, without exception, united in the pain of family and friends. Thousands of people have lived hours of agony, at risk of life, trying to save themselves and their most essential goods, waiting and despairing for help that did not arrive, which did not arrive. And each of us saw and heard reports closer or more distant but that could be ours or ours. More than 500 homes have been lost, more than 500 000 ha have been burned. The largest burned area ever, spread out by the country. Hundreds of companies, from industry to hotel, from agriculture to services, have lost everything. There is not in this country one of us who does not have a relative, a friend, a acquaintance who has made a painful report to us in the first person. The Portuguese State has failed, as everyone has recognized, from the President of the Republic to the Government, to all parties without exception, but has not failed in an abstract manner, in a conjugation of exceptional woes, very concretely, had precise days and hours. It failed because its political leaders did not know how to prepare, they did not know how to coordinate, they did not know how to implement an effective fire prevention and combat policy. It was a failure of the government, a sovereign body which in our democratic system has the executive conduct of the State and the maximum responsibility of the Administration. Government that knew about the difficult weather conditions that occurred at various times in our territory. Extreme, but not unexpected, conditions that required further preparation and readiness. in this country, where the tendency is well known to dilute guilt in an amalgam of non-responsibles, it must be said, as we have said from the first hour: political responsibilities must be established to the last consequences because, in politics, this is the only way to pay tribute to those who have lost their lives in the hands of an incompetent State. That's what we do here today. The report by the Independent Technical Commission on the analysis and clearance of the facts concerning the fires in the area of Pedrogão is clear about these failures and the responsibilities for these failures: it was possible to avoid the spread of the fire, it was possible to have avoided or severely limited the tragedy, had been complied with the regulations and committed the means of them. Why hasn't the second air force been activated yet in the initial combat? Why was the fire two hours without any airway, two hours in which it could have been controlled? Oh, my God! Why wasn't the only pre-positioned medium, the White Castle Fire Force, mobilized, how should it have been, when it passed to the extended attack phase? Oh, my God! The report is to stone, and I quote: « there has been no increase in any means, as would be expected» ; « there have been no explicit reasons that could have justified the non-mobilisation of this group » ; « the only [medium] formatted, positioned in a neighbouring district, in a state of immediate readiness, is not mobilized» or « there has been no rational justification for this decision». The government has failed, because the errors identified by the report of the Independent Technical Commission are unjustified and can only result from deep incompetence and discoordination at political and operational levels. It was the failure of a structure designed and structured by the former Minister of Internal Administration António Costa and now appointed by Prime Minister António Costa, according to the criterion of friendship and not that of competence. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The Government failed because the Prime Minister stubbornly refused to change its government composition, refused to apologize for the success, refused to call the victims' families to compensate them, refused to assume any responsibility, blaming the climate and the forest and the Portuguese themselves for the success. The government failed because, in the face of a disaster of those dimensions, a rapid action was required on the part of the Government to ensure that the time that was beginning in June would not again have tragic episodes. And the government has ignored the short term. As if we could pass over the summer, it waited for conclusions from reports to act, as if the disaster did not advise a rapid, urgent response for this year! And the disaster happened again in October. The government failed twice because, after Pedrogon, in October again came the fires, the deaths and the destruction. Twelve districts, dozens of municipalities, gazes trapped in the fire and an insistent question, repeated to exhaustion, in the mouth of all Portuguese: "how is it possible this has happened again? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” The government has failed because much of the answer to this question lies in its actions and omissions. in the omission of a non-commanded Government in the Internal Administration and a National Civil Protection Authority without control and action which, as a whole, did not guard the extension of all means in time, did not intensify the means of awareness of populations for risk behaviors, did not monitor as required, did not guard the means for the weekend of the disaster, when all weather warnings pointed to maximum risk. instead, they allowed to reduce air resources when all forecasts pointed to a warm and dry climate. The government failed because when tens of people lost their lives, government officials unfolded in absolutely unqualifying interventions. They appeared to the Portuguese with a simple message: each one by himself, save himself who can, because they cannot wait for firemen and planes. They made it clear, in a literal way, that they should be the Portuguese to « self-protect themselves », which they could not wait for by the State. And many, but many, Portuguese felt the abandonment in the skin, and many more felt solidarity with them in this feeling. for the second time, in four months, more people died, more lives were destroyed, the fire destroyed houses, destroyed forests, industrial areas, warehouses and factories, and what was seen was total incompetence and absence of the state, absence of the state in the most basic functions of the state itself : the functions of sovereignty. When the government fails and this failure leads to the death of more than one hundred people, to the agony of thousands of others, to the greatest burning area of all time, to one of the most devastating destructions in our territory, what other parliamentary reaction exists than a motion of censure? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u5	When the government fails and this failure is not sufficient for the government, on its own initiative, with conviction, to assume its responsibilities, what other constitutional alternative than a motion of censure? When the government fails and this failure reaches the heart of the reason for the existence of the State itself, what other instrument is proportional to such pain and destruction as not a motion of censure? I have often said, in the 15-year debates, that Mr Prime Minister was dealing with serious matters very lightly, which he did not deepen, that he believed that time would solve one part of the issues and optimism the other. This time it wasn't like that. And the government's decisions announced this weekend are little to the depth of the damage and the complexity of the challenges. The announcements this weekend are late, many taken by the word of Mr. President of the Republic and by popular censorship. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members: The CDS gives voice in this Parliament to popular censorship, it gives voice to millions of Portuguese people who were outraged when, unbelievers, they heard the Prime Minister, four months later, as if nothing relevant had happened, without taking any responsibility, that it would apply the conclusions of the Technical Report and that everything would go well. The same words, the same intentions four months before. The Prime Minister has failed and did not recognize him, he has snatched the way out but not convinced. Communication and image advisors can give help but do not change the nature of people and do not give them the status they do not have. When the country needed a statesman he found that he had only a skilled politician. [[CDS-PP applause.]] This motion of censure is that: a censorship of a government and a Prime Minister who did not meet their responsibilities, who disappointed many who trusted him, is the voice of the outrage of millions of Portuguese, is the tribute to all those who lost their lives at the hands of the government's incompetence. on 12 July, in the face of the Prime Minister's insistence not to resign or, today, accept the resignation of the Minister of Internal Administration, and thus help to react to confidence in the State, I was clear: from then on the responsibility would be exclusively of the Prime Minister. He told me that everything one of his ministers or ministers did would always be their responsibility. It is to this responsibility, Prime Minister, that today the CDS convenes. Those who accuse us of bias look at you, look at the motions of censure he presented in the past, look at the economic and financial reasons then invoked and, in conscience, say here, today and now, that these reasons are more important than the human tragedy that twice has touched us and that affects the very heart of a State: the protection of people, of the lives of people and of our territory. Then we will understand each other's priorities, then we will be clarified about the price that the Portuguese pay for a handful of influence, power, of some. The motion of censure is valid, regardless of the outcome. Allowing this moment to pass without defeating our censorship, without here in Parliament, to represent so many women and men who do not comply with incompetence and lack of sense of state, would be a very serious failure in our democratic history, it would be a burden that I would not want to bear, as leader of the CDS. The omission would disgrace us as Parliament, because we would not be honoring those who trusted us to represent it. Each political force will make its reading and choice, that of the CDS is very clear. As we have always said, Portugal is counting on us to build, for broad consensus, to move forward positively with proposals, to make the best of our efforts to find the best solutions. But the Portuguese also count on us to clear up all the responsibilities for these tragedies, the Portuguese certainly count on us to give voice to their indignation, the Portuguese count on us not to let go of this national shame. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP, standing up, and the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u6	Mrs Assunção Cristas, the time you used too much, of what was planned for the opening of the debate, will be discounted in the intervening time in the debate. You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u7	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: We are here today because responsibility for Pedrogan tragedies and October 15 has to have consequences. We are here because the suffering of the victims and their families and the feelings of insecurity of the Portuguese require an answer. We are here because the loss of lives, the destruction of housing and businesses, the devastation of the forest cannot be ignored. That is why, with a sense of duty, the Government here is, as the general policy governing body of the country and the senior body of the Public Administration, to assume its primary responsibility before the Assembly of the Republic. But the assumption of responsibilities cannot be a mere ritual of institutional atonement. It must be a firm commitment to do what needs to be done, to change what needs to be changed, to repair what needs to be repaired, a commitment to meet the structural challenges of deforestation, abandonment of the interior, climate change, while meeting the immediate obligation to repair and rebuild, a commitment to ensure the safety of citizens, reducing risks and preventing threats, alerting to dangers, protecting contingencies and helping in the disaster. Do justice to the victims, rebuild the 500 homes now destroyed, restore the productive potential of farmers, ensure the work of the affected companies, restore the operation of the water, electricity and communications networks, are again urgent tasks. As a matter of urgency, in the case of the Pedrogon fire, we will recover 61 houses and have 90 houses with ongoing works, we have more than 1500 farmers already supported, in a total of EUR 3, 4 million, and we have EUR 25 million available for the recovery of companies. Repairing the damage and rebuilding the territory must be in line with structural interventions. I would like to recall that, last year, we approved the national territorial cohesion plan, focusing on the value of the interior, as well as the current year's budget has already created fiscal incentives for the establishment of companies in the interior and the Luso-Spanish Summit approved as a priority the elaboration of a cross-border development strategy that strengthens a new centrality in the Iberian market, in our border range. I also recall that in October last year, we put in public discussion the package of forest reform, which the Assembly of the Republic approved last July. We are now in the time of its implementation, to approve the forest planning plans, to execute the register, to dynamize forest intervention zones and forest management entities that ensure scale to sustainable forest recovery. The revitalization of the interior and the reorganization of the forest are therefore, from the first hour, in our program and marking our action, as they continue to be at the centre of the strategy for Portugal post-2020 that we put in public debate last June. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The events of this summer have shown that there is a urgency in the safety of populations that is not compatible with the medium and long-term horizon where we can reap the effects of the reforms of the revitalization of the interior and the reorganization of forests and have also shown that the cumulative effect of the lack of structural prevention, abandonment of the interior and climate change has exhausted our model of prevention and combating forest fires. With indisputably democratic maturity the Assembly of the Republic constituted, in June, an Independent Technical Commission which, from the tragedy of Pedrogão, also carried out the systemic analysis of this model. Consequently, the Government has committed itself to withdrawing all the illusions arising from this report, both for the assumption of responsibilities and for the reform of the system. We have done so in respect of this Assembly of the Republic, for respect for the technical and scientific competence of the members of the Commission, but also for respect for the victims and populations affected, who demanded, and demanded, solidity and consistency in decisions and not only media legislative remedies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And we do so because only a reform based on institutional cooperation and better scientific knowledge has the conditions to inspire the necessary national mobilization and bring together the essential political consensus. As we have been committed, and once proven by the Commission designated by this Assembly of the Republic, the Government has assumed responsibility for the payment of compensation due to the family members of the victims of death and has agreed an extrajudicial mechanism for fixing the criteria for these compensations, entrusting the Ombudsman with their application to each family member or heir. Secondly, the Extraordinary Council of Ministers last Saturday adopted measures to strengthen the protection of citizens, with the approval of the Preventive Civil Protection Strategy that promotes a collective security culture and strengthens the information and warning mechanisms for the public. Among other measures that promote the resilience of the territory and infrastructure, I stress the investment in natural parks and the construction of the construction of the primary forest protection network and the acquisition of the equipment of the new forest slag teams. We launched an investment of EUR 28 million for the infrastructure of Portugal to realize, on the railways and on the roads under its management, the protection tracks, now extended from 3 m to 10 m, and we created better conditions for the use of the technical rails of the infrastructure of Portugal for the burial of communication or electricity networks, and PT has already committed itself to the burial of 1000 km of cable in the areas at greatest risk of forest fire in the next two years. Finally, the State decided to take an shareholder position in SIRESP, SA. The objective is very clear: to ensure that this company implements the necessary investments in redundancy and thus to ensure that we do not fail in emergency communications. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The profound reform of the model of prevention and combating rural fires proposed by the Independent Technical Commission will have to be implemented without rupture, counting on intervention and valuing all the institutions that have ensured over the years the mechanism to combat forest fires. Three principles guide this reform. Firstly, the approach between prevention and combat. This results in the strengthening and progressive reorientation of resources for the pillar of prevention and surveillance, with the Institute of Conservation of Nature and Forests ( IUCF ) which is necessarily robust to assume a new centrality throughout the system, and also involves the development of the network of nature keepers, forest guards and sapphires, partnerships with the authorities and associations of forest, agricultural and livestock producers and the active collaboration of the Nature and Environment Protection Service ( SEPNA ), GNR. The second principle is that of professionalization and training, which requires, of course, investment in research and development and the mobilization of actors to incorporate scientific knowledge in the planning, forecasting and management phases of devices and operations, as well as the technical qualification of all actors. in this sense, a research line was created at the Foundation for Science and Technology ( FCT ), but we will have to integrate the National School of Firefighters into certified professional education and create professional higher technical courses in polytechnic higher education. The National Civil Protection Authority shall have a staff framework adjusted to risk profiles and properly equipped with organised careers and a consolidated management and command structure and completed by competition, in accordance with the general law. Emergency military support capacity will be developed in the Armed Forces, including patrolling, support for populations, logistical support and heating. The coverage of GIPS ( Protection and Relief Intervention Group ) will also be expanded and densified, GNR, throughout the territory, which has given so good evidence in these 11 years of service. The Air Force will be entrusted with the mission of air combat to forest fires, by the State's own resources or others that are only necessary on a seasonal basis. The independent contribution of volunteering, with the qualified professionalization of permanent intervention teams, will be valued, benefiting from the Community entry of volunteer firearms, without ignoring the evolution that the sociodemographic dynamics of the territory imposes on us today. Finally, the third principle is that of specialization which would allow progressive and trendy segmentation of means for the protection of persons and goods — a first mission of civil protection — and for the management of rural fires which requires a high degree of specialization. This segmentation, of course, cannot sacrifice the unit of command, especially in extended fire-fighting operations, nor should it be ignored that the type of settlement in low-density territories often does not allow the distinction between the protection of persons and goods and the management of fire, which the municipal planning plans of the territory and those of civil protection have to consider. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The duty of policymakers is to seek to translate into policy measures the scientific consensus established in the Independent Technical Commission constituted by unanimous decision of the Assembly of the Republic. There was time for this Technical Commission to study and recommend. It is now our time to carry out a profound reform, but it must be conducted without ruptures, or discontinuities, a reform that does not divide, but does not separate but unites and in which all are essential, in a new alliance between knowledge and the will to serve, the academy and the operational, society and institutions. We'll take this design together, this momentum that challenges us. The Portuguese don't expect anything else from us at this time. We honor our word: nothing can remain as before. for my part, on the part of the government, this is our cause. We are sure that this is the cause of all of us. [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u8	Mr Prime Minister, as happened with the previous speech of Mrs Cristas, has exceeded the time given, so the procedure will be the same, having a discount in the debate time allocated to the Government. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get into the question phase for the two speakers. We begin with the questions to be put to the CDS-PP, and the Bureau has already registered three entries for requests for clarification, in particular by Mr João Paulo Correia, PS, Mr Hugo Soares, PSD, and Mrs Jamila Madeira, PS. How do you intend to respond, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u9	I shall answer together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u10	To request clarification, Mr. João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u11	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Christian Assumption, this motion of censure of the CDS reminds an old and well-known proverb that says when someone's finger is pointed out there are three fingers pointed to themselves. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The CDS behaves as if it had arrived in Parliament now and as if it had never been part of the former government. Mrs Assunção Cristas and the CDS ruled between 2011 and 2015 the areas of agriculture, environment, forests and civil protection. For this reason, both the CDS and Mrs Assunção Cristos also have explanations to explain to the country and to the Portuguese about the causes of the tragedy of the fires. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There is a recurring accusation by the CDS in the debates that have been made here in Parliament about the tragedies of the fires. It was a mistake, says the CDS, that this government made 19 appointments of district commanders in January and February 2017. And based on the principle that it was a mistake, what would the CDS say if this government had made 21 appointments of district commanders in June, July and September, how did its government do in 2013 in the middle of a fire season? [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is time to confront Mrs Assumption Cristas and her party with what they have not done, with what they have done wrong and with what they have focused on the capacity of State services to respond to forest management and to prevent and combat forest fires. I would like to remind you that in 2013 the law that conditioned the use of eucalyptus was reversed by its hand, a law that became known as the law of the liberalization of eucalyptus, because it placed eucalyptus at the same level as the other species. following the application of this new law, in the first three months of 2014, 92 % of all previous notifications concerning new trees were on eucalyptus. And in 2015, as a result of this new law, 77 % of the investments in foresting and reforestation were directed towards eucalyptus. But in terms of budgeting, de-investment and cuts in expenditure, its governance and the hand of the CDS have much to explain to the country. The Institute for Conservation of Nature and Forests was cut by 43 % between 2013 and 2015. Between 2012 and 2015, there was a reduction of 100 forest-scaling firefighters, and this reduction was felt enormously in the central region, which was deprived in these years of about 60 scaling firefighters. Between 2011 and 2015, public spending on civil protection function fell by more than 30 %. At the time it was imperative for the policy of the minimum state that PSD and CDS imposed in all areas of Public Administration, including in the areas of civil protection and forest protection. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Government and the PS have assumed responsibility for what went wrong and what needs to be done. We are committed to immediate aid responses as well as structural responses that will make the difference and that will have to avoid such tragedies. We are not, therefore, interested in the past, all must assume their responsibilities and therefore condemn the political opportunism of this motion of censure! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u12	Mr President, I ask you to conclude, although the time for your intervention is being discounted in the total time allocated to your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u13	I shall now conclude, Mr President. It is too obvious that this motion of censure is an attempt by the CDS to escape its responsibilities. The question, Mrs Deputy, which the country wishes to make, and to see it answered, is the following: is it today that the CDS assumes its responsibilities for misconducting forest policy and for disbursing, de-investment and cutting costs in the civil protection and defence services of the forest in the time of its government? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u14	Mr João Paulo Correia, I apologize to you, because indeed, in relation to the first request for clarification, the honourable Member was entitled until he had a little more time, but this logic of communicating vessels from time to time leads us to small mistakes. To request clarification, Mr Hugo Soares has the floor, which is available for five minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u15	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Assunción Cristas, I would like to make a first comment on the intervention we have just heard. We in the past had nothing to do with the current economic success of the country, we in the past had nothing to do with the success of the public accounts that we live today, we in the past had nothing to do with everything that is good today in the country, but, said the Socialist Party today, we have the responsibility for the tragedy that happened in Pedrogan and on October 15th! [[PSD applause.]] What humility this is, that of the Socialist Party! I would even say: what a lack of decorum on the side of the Socialist Party's bench! [[PSD applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, today's debate has a past, has a present and has a future. The past is all that has happened in the country where the government has failed, the state has failed and the Prime Minister has failed. Mr. Prime Minister, it was his incompetence, his insensitivity and his sovereignty that caused him not to hear the warnings of the Portuguese Bombers League, the Institute of Meteorology and not to prolong the Charlie phase. It was his incompetence, his sovereignty and his insensitivity that made him exchange competent people in the National Civil Protection Authority for his friends, a set of friends who have turned out to be truly incompetable. [[PSD applause.]] It was his sovereignty, his incompetence and his insensitivity that kept him in the Internal Administration who begged him to leave because he knew he was not in political conditions and, who knows, personal to guarantee the authority that the folder required. It was his insensitivity, his incompetence and his sovereignty that kept him in charge of a Minister without conditions. It was, moreover, Mr Prime Minister, his sovereignty, his insensitivity and his incompetence that made us unable to have air resources to fight the fires of 15 October. It was his incompetence, his sovereignty and his insensitivity that caused all the watchtowers to be dismantled.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u16	It's an unscrupulous way to devalue the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u17	All of this was the result of your government and your incompetence and it was for all of this that Mr Prime Minister has failed. [[PS protests.]] The country knows today that it has an excellent Prime Minister to give good news, that it has, as Dr. Assumption Cristas said,... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u18	...a skilled politician as Prime Minister, but in difficult times, at times when the Portuguese need a head of government, you are absent, you fail and do not guarantee the conduct of public policy in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Mr Prime Minister, this debate is also about this. And the present is the discussion of a motion of censure. I challenged him last Wednesday to have the courage to bring to Parliament a motion of confidence presented by the Government. Mr Prime Minister replied to me at the time that he did not need to do so, because the lead of this motion of censure would be a demonstration of strengthening his government. Now, he answered for himself the parliamentary leader of the Portuguese Communist Party, when he told the microphones of all the media that the lead of this motion of censure would not be the reinforcement of his government, which means the same as I said here.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u19	I'm looking forward to hearing the CDS answer to that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u20	Mr. Prime Minister did not bring a motion of confidence because he knew that neither the Left Block nor the Portuguese Communist Party nor the Greens Ecological Party would approve it, and you have no confidence in Parliament. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u21	You'll hear more from here!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u22	Mr Prime Minister, this debate is also a future debate, because we must respond quickly to people's wishes. Mr. Prime Minister and the government have already lost four months. They lost four months when they did not want to approve the extrajudicial mechanism here to compensate the victims, heirs and families of the tragedy of Pedrogão. You lost four months to do what was obvious to everyone. On Saturday, however, following a Council of Ministers, he presented a set of measures. We have already had the opportunity to tell you that the PSD Parliamentary Group is available to, knowing the final drawing of all the measures and all the proposals, support what is to be supported, so that Portuguese and Portuguese know that it is not due to lack of support from this bench that the country will not do what it needs. But we said more: we were careful, in advance, to present our proposals. We defend, as you know, the creation of a military technical unit so that our Army can help in this war that is of all, after having the necessary training in combating and preventing fires. We said that we should once and for all end this logic of friendship which Mr. Prime Minister both cultivated in the nominations of the leaders for the National Civil Protection Authority, when these people should occupy the place through public competition, by merit and by competence. We defend voluntary incentives. We are defending a set of support mechanisms for families and businesses. That is why this debate, Prime Minister, is also a future debate. Mr Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Cristian Assumption, on 16 October, we heard Mr Prime Minister say to the country: « No one doubts that black days like these will be repeated». The question I wanted to leave...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u23	I knew I wasn't asking the question!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u24	...it is to know whether a Prime Minister who, after a tragedy like what happened, has such a phrase as this deserves or not the confidence of the Portuguese and Parliament and whether or not he deserves to continue in front of the government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u25	Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares, like the previous speaker, the time you used the most is also discounted at the time of the parliamentary group you are President. To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Jamila Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, it is up to me to address my first words to all those who in this fight, in this unequal struggle with the monster which was the fire that devastated our territory last week, have lost everything, in particular those who gave their life in this fight. Unfortunately, we are not here discussing how to help these people, but we are discussing the fact-finding between the CDS and the PSD, as in fact it was very visible in the speech of Mr Hugo Soares. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The presentation of a motion of censure is a democratic right that assists the opposition, a right which, when built, was consecrated to be used in defense of people and in the service of people. But it cannot and should not be broken down at the service of guerrilla logics that nothing intends to build—at least, it is not noticeable in today's interventions, nor in the motion of censure itself—and they only have as their mobile to understand which of the two parties dispute the entry of the night news. however, in the face of this motion of censure that the CDS presents to us, nothing constructive or positive can be seen by citizens, in addition to this pure tactism either internal, or in combating the PSD. In fact, that was our expectation — the government and the PS can join in this message. We would have no other expectation, given the serious responsibilities that the CDS had, in particular, in the governmental areas that now accuse them of failing. In fact, forest issues are a problem in our country that lacks thought and action, a problem that accompanies us throughout our history, a problem that the current government has sought from the very first hour to take seriously. that he has made, of course, two special ministerial councils for this purpose — one, to launch the debate and another to close it — and brought this process to the Assembly of the Republic to finally be approved last July, having the same started in 2016. This file is essential. There is the responsibility of the current leader of the CDS — who now, in turn, calls for action — because, in the role of Minister for Agriculture and the Environment, nothing added to this debate, except, of course, the famous orientation to plant many and more eucalyptuses. We could even say that some were stopped—see the mega-project of planting eucalyptus that was stopped, otherwise Oliveira of the Hospital, very wooded in this episode of fire, would be even more densely populated by eucalyptus, resulting from a project that then the Minister of Agriculture very fondly caressed and supported, but which, fortunately, did not see the light of the day. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]] Yes, Mrs. Deputy, I mean the Quinta da Costa project. But, of course, you know him better than I do, since you've pinned him. Worse: all these territories were abandoned by the Government of the PSD and the CDS, left to their fate. They took out courts, health centers, church councils. They were limited to regard them and to treat them as landscape. They have treated and decreed the abandonment of these regions, a process that this government, either with the Internal Valuation Mission Unit or with all the measures that have been taken at this level, has sought to recover.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u27	Although you are discounting at the time of your parliamentary group, I ask you to conclude, Mrs. [[Protests by PS Member Carlos César.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u28	So what we lived in the last day 15, yes, was a war, a war with a typhoon of fire, a war with something that climate change brings us with particular sensitivity. But this motion of censure does not solve any of these problems. on the contrary, it should bring responsibility for, at the time of war, we all join together to respond, as a country, to this challenge. I would like to know if, after the responsibilities on this matter, the current leader of the CDS is taking refuge in a motion of censure to continue not to respond to Portuguese, to continue not to respond to requests for logistical, psychological and support support in solving people's problems. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u29	in the first round, each parliamentary group has 5 minutes to formulate the first request for clarification. This was the second request for clarification by the PS. I say this only to clarify the President of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. To respond to the requests for clarification that have been put to you, you have the floor of Mrs Cristian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u30	Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking the honourable Members. Mr João Paulo Correia and Mr Hugo Soares and Mrs Jamila Madeira, the questions they raised. First of all, I would like to point out that it was necessary to attend the third intervention of the Socialist thief — the first of Mr. Prime Minister and after Mr. João Paulo Correia — to finally hear a word about the people — the people, the victims and their families — who came from Mrs. Jamila Madeira. [[PS protests.]] Exactly in the same tone that Mr. Prime Minister used on the fateful Monday night, October 16, when the whole country was perplexed, that is what we heard here today from Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. João Paulo Correia. I would like to answer Mr João Paulo Correia and Mrs Jamila Madeira with two or three questions that seem very relevant to me. The first, Mr. João Paulo Correia, is to tell you that appointments have always been made. But there is a difference between appointments based on competence and appointments based on friends. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u31	That is why many of them come from different consequences than others. Secondly, I wanted to say to Mr. João Paulo Correia that if you look at the budgets of Civil Protection, you will be very ashamed. You know why? Because in 2016 and 2017, the budget for combat was lower than the years of the previous government. And notice that the budget for 2018 is less than 2012. [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] It's weird, isn't it, sir? Oh, my God! But it's the official budget data. As regards the familiar question of the eucalyptus, I also wanted to say, Mrs Jamila Madeira, that between 1995 and 2000 the area of eucalyptus grew at the rate of 6333 ha per year and between 2013 and the first half of this year, with the famous law that you wrongly wanted to baptize « the eucalyptus law», grew only 2700 ha per year, i.e. a third of the growth it had during your governments. Explain to me where the liberalisation of the eucalyptus is! [[CDS-PP applause.]] But this certainly does not bother you, because they have just appointed a person who, regardless of what he may have, comes from the management area of the eucalyptus to deal now with the salvation of the country. That certainly doesn't bother you, quite the contrary. I would like to tell you, Mrs. Jamila Madeira and Mr. João Paulo Correia, that they can accuse us of many things, may even point out that for four years we have not been able — and it is true — to put into force the PROFs (regional forestry planning plans) which were suspended by your government when we started government functions. But the truth is, two years back from socialist governance, see that the PROFs continue to reverberate, are still not put into effect. And then, yes, there are limits to species and not to the law that introduced reporting obligations on what is being planted at any time. Mr João Paulo Correia and Mrs Jamila Madeira, I invite you to check this and ask your Minister of Agriculture what is done by the PROF, which is not yet in force. Let me conclude by saying also, Mrs.Jamila Madeira, that for the first time in this Parliament a bill on registration was the CDS and the PSD, it was not the Socialist Party, nor the Government, who took a long time to bring their proposal to this House. And let me also say to you, Madam Member, that if there is a question that we have worked structurally, and we will continue to work, to solve — and you will still hear the CDS proposals today — it was the law of abandoned and unknown lands that your Minister for Agriculture when he arrived to the government said it was useless and would try to change. Therefore, Mrs Deputies, in this matter, I am very willing to explain everything, to add much and certainly to "put the points on us" in relation to your irresponsibility. You know why? Because, while these accusations are being made, they hide what is in everyone's sight: it is that, regardless of everything else, of everything that has been done or could have been done and should have done more certainly, regardless of all that, what is absolutely clear, Mrs. Deputy and Mr. Deputy, is that this government has failed, this government has been incompetent, the Authority that has been appointed was absolutely incompetent and, from its incompetent, a fateful summer was born for all Portuguese, with 110 deaths, which never, but never, had happened. And that you may want to erase and ignore, but the truth is that it will forever be linked to your history, to the history of your incompetence and your governance. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u32	Mr Hugo Lopes Soares, thank you very much for the questions you have raised.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u33	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u34	I shall conclude, Mr President. After that, I can only tell you, Mr. Member, that who fails once, who fails a second time and who still today has not even had a human word to leave in this Parliament... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u35	It's true! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u36	... and makes this Parliament a stage for your Council of Ministers, for me, it is very clear: it has no stature to be Prime Minister of Portugal. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u37	We will proceed to the requests for clarification to the Government. 15 were registered. Members to request clarification from the Prime Minister and it was acquired by the Bureau that there would be four groups of two Members. Ladies and gentlemen, this gives eight, and then another group of four. Members, which gives 12, and finally a group of three Mrs. Members, and Mr Prime Minister responds immediately after each group. To ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u38	Mr President, Prime Minister, I heard you very carefully after Pedrogon Grande, when he said that the government was doing everything to keep the tragedy from happening again. What, I believe, still needs to be clarified today is whether Mr. Prime Minister really did everything he could. And, to make it easier, I have a script of questions: did you exonerate a minister who was visibly weakened and who, recognizing it itself, asked to leave, allowing to recover ties of lost trust in the state? Did you name a new holder of the folder that, with a new breath, generated authority and trust? Did you resign leaders of Civil Protection, leaders who proved their incompetence with the terrible consequences that we witnessed? Have you appointed other leaders, competent and animically more capable of facing the hard time of summer? Not one thing or another, before he appointed a focus group to assess whether the government's popularity had been affected! Have you reinforced land resources on an appropriate scale? Has he given clear indications to extend the readiness of all air resources until climate conditions justify it, regardless of the timetable? Did you make sure that red alerts correspond to the readiness of the human resources and equipment that was due? No, he trusted that someone would treat, and he forgot that these were perhaps the same people whose incompetence had become naked in Pedrogan. And in the preparation of the State budget for next year, Post-Pedrogan State budget, did you take care to ensure money for more than necessary amendments? Have you ensured the margin necessary to consider the amendments that the Independent Technical Commission should recommend? And what margin was that? Where is she? No, you certainly thought a touch here and a touch there would all be in the Budget. And when was the report again known, did it remove any political consequences from it? Does the State have a serious omission in the fight against fire, evidenced by the lack of adequate combat between 4 and 6 hours in the afternoon, contrary to the whole regulation and preventing the fire from being controlled, have political consequences been removed? Did you apologize on behalf of the Portuguese State? Has he taken the initiative to promptly compensate the families of the victims? No, he kept exactly the same line followed up there, which, moreover, repeated here today, and took the conclusions of one part of the report, but forgot the other part, the one which was uncomfortable for you, for your government and for the entities that protect you. Once again the tragedy was repeated in October, did it once again remove all the political consequences? Did you hear the word the Portuguese needed to hear? No, it remained seraphic and, just the chorus and very pressed, changed the speech. Mr. Prime Minister, we do not censor emotions or lack of them in the political management of fires; we censor the absence of a government and a Prime Minister in order to give confidence to the Portuguese and comfort in pain. A Prime Minister may or may not apologize on his own behalf, but he cannot fail to apologize on behalf of the Portuguese State, when the State fails under the command of his Government — one thing is not confused with the other, and the Prime Minister has proved that he did not realize this difference. When Portugal needed a statesman, he realized that he had only one politician. A skilled politician, but who, in the face of tragedy, showed no fiber or character.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u39	Aren't you reading the initial intervention again?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u40	It's a copy and paste!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u41	Mr Prime Minister, even after the measures proposed this weekend, I would like to ask you whether you are really convinced that the structural issues are sufficiently mature. What is your plan for the rebirth of agriculture, forestry and tourism in these territories? We believe that the money announced is not sufficient for all the reconstruction effort that is required. As leader of the Socialist Party, what do you say about this? And financial effort, but also effort to involve human resources, so that people do not wait and hope. As the leader of the Socialist Party, I ask you if you are available to support a robust financial envelope so that the mission unit can, with autonomy and command, make decisions and ensure efficiency in the allocation of resources. I ask you if you are available to support a method that calls on universities to find a management model in the territory involving owners and yields them since the year zero, on account of joint and professional management, on an economically justified scale and following the best practices. I wonder if it is really available to help solve all the problems seriously and thoroughly. It is that, as Prime Minister, no one already believes that he is capable of doing so, because you have already had an opportunity to do so and have wasted it. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u42	To request clarification, Mr Amadeu Alberbergaria has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, I am elected by the Aveiro district where thousands of hectares of forest have burned down, where dozens of houses have been reduced to ashes and where hundreds of jobs are at risk. I'm elected by a district that never wanted to depend on the state for anything. It is recognized by all the industrial capacity of the Aveiras, a capacity based on excellent workers and entrepreneurs who make that land one of the main economic motors of the country. I am natural and elected by Aveiro, where we always expect little from the state, but we never thought that this was not able to safeguard our security.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u45	The socialist, communist and blogger government has abandoned the people and the means of relief to their fate. You failed the blind. I am in a district, Mr. Prime Minister, where your government has tried to appoint a third-class fireman, leader of a socialist council and without any operational command curriculum. And he just didn't take his lead because the 25 district fire commanders publicly denounced this situation. But we can't stop thinking about what happened in this country outside. How many times has the security of people been placed behind the Socialist Party boys? [[PS protests.]] Do you assume the nominations you have made for the National Civil Protection Authority? Yesterday, the PSD members elected by the Aveiro electoral circle were in the areas most affected by fires. There are hundreds of jobs at risk and we demand to know when and how the aid starts to reach the ground so that these jobs will not be lost. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u46	There's no time to waste. It was too late yesterday. You don't abandon people again! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u47	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u48	Mr President, thank you, Mrs Cristas and Mr Amadeu Alberaria, for the questions put. Of course, I will go by the slogans and the personal attacks and concentrate on what seems essential to me. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Let us start with what is most urgent, which is the question put by Mr Amadeu Albertaria. As you know, the Council of Ministers approved last Saturday a total of EUR 100 million in support of an additional EUR 100 million credit line, i.e. a total of EUR 200 million, aimed at supporting the 300 companies affected by the fires last October 15th. These companies will have the same response as companies that were affected by the Pedrogon fire. As I said in my initial speech, EUR 25 million is already available in a tender procedure which is open until the end of January so that companies can apply and receive the necessary support. The revitalization of the territory is absolutely essential. But I can tell you more: measures are also taken in the area of the Ministry of Labour to support jobs, and even an innovative measure that allows the State to be more involved even outside the lay-off situation, i.e. even in the situation in which workers are working, but in which companies have to make heavy investments to recover the productive capacity that has been affected by fires. That is why we will certainly not miss businesses, as we are not missing families who have lost their homes and farmers whose agricultural potential needs to be restored. As regards the questions put by Mrs Cristas, first of all we have withdrawn the political consequences of the report. We were, moreover, the only ones — strangely — who, before the report which was unanimously approved by all the members of the Independent Technical Commission, indicated by the different parties in the Assembly of the Republic, and by the Council of Rectors, decided that we would make their recommendations our action programme. We have done so, of course, in the programme we have presented, to reform the forest fire prevention and control system. We have done so, with regard to the priority, which it is necessary to give, in order to improve the resilience of the territory. We have done so with regard to the mechanisms that are necessary to increase the collective security culture of populations, improve information mechanisms and alert mechanisms. We have done so with regard to the proposals that have been put forward for training, from the need to deepen research and development to its application at all stages, from planning to the exercise of the command. We have done so with regard to the recommendations on the involvement of the Armed Forces and also with regard to the role of the Air Force in combating forest fires. If you read the deliberations of the Council of Ministers, you will see that we have adopted, we will follow and implement everything the Technical Commission has recommended. That is our duty, to turn scientific consensus into political action, and that is why we are government and we are going to do so. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member asked whether the 2018 Budget will respond to the needs. Go! Go! The response to part of the needs was already foreseen in the Budget itself. For example, there was already an increase of EUR 10 million to strengthen the number of forest slag teams and are already included in the Budget EUR 28 million for the infrastructure of Portugal to build the protection tracks along the roads and railways. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u49	Something the CDS and PSD didn't do!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u50	There are other measures that have not yet been included in the budget, but, as I said last week in the 15th year debate, we have the flexibility needed to introduce the amendments that are necessary in order to do what we are committed to. Not all measures will necessarily have to be translated into the deficit, because many can benefit from an exceptional assessment of their exceptional nature within the framework of the European Union and others result from financial reengineering operations that will not affect the deficit, but what I can tell them is that the measures we are adopting will have the necessary budgetary coverage to be implemented.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u51	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u52	In conclusion, Mr President, as regards the families of the victims, we fulfilled what I myself had promised to do with the President of the Commission : once consolidated the responsibilities, on the basis of the report of the Technical Commission of the Assembly of the Republic, we would find with the association, as we found, an extrajudicial mechanism allowing the State to restore what it must restore and compensate what it must compensate, in accordance with the responsibilities it has. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u53	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we move on to the second group of requests for clarification. To request clarification, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members, Prime Minister, I believe it is good to put this debate back in its centrality: the CDS has intended to present a motion of censure to overthrow the government and that is its purpose. But, Mrs Christian Assumption, there is one thing that the Socialist Party's bench does not make clear: there is no Member, no one in this Chamber, who is more appalled than others with the unhappiness and tragedy that happened this year. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u55	But responsibility is not the same among all!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u56	Therefore, with respect to the suffering of those who have lost their loved ones, to those who have lost their jobs, to those who have lost their livelihood, to those who have lost their jobs, there is no contest of emotions here, there is responsibility — responsibility! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u57	But some are responsible and others are not!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u58	On behalf of the Socialist Party, I would once again like to express our solidarity with those who suffer and our condolences to the families of those who have lost their loved ones. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the time for all of us to mobilize — whatever Parliamentary board — for a greater good, which is to rebuild and re-emerge, rebuild and re-emerge Portugal! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] This is the time to rebuild, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, these are not empty words. In fact, there is a contradiction on the part of Mrs Cristas, because she is so quick to agree with the conclusions of the report presented on Pedrogan as a motion, even though these conclusions are already reflected in the documents of the Council of Ministers meeting last Saturday. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Carlos Abreu Amorim.]] It is regrettable, Mrs Deputies, that at a time when people still cry their losses, what interests the CDS-PP is not reconstruction and that the ashes are born a future for these people who have lost everything. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister, there are problems we have to deal with right now. I would therefore like to welcome the decisions taken at this meeting of the Council of Ministers, which, by chance, recalls in this House — was already marked before 15 October, before what happened on 15 October,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u59	It should have been four months earlier!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u60	... and which only reinforced the immediate measures to meet people's needs this weekend.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u61	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u62	I would like to welcome not only all the measures that have been adopted this Saturday but also the seemingly extended convergence of those which have been the measures — and good measures — taken to respond immediately to people's difficulties. [[Protests by PSD Member Adam Silva.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a mark that I wanted us to leave here, too. contrary to what the Member of the European Parliament or even Mr Hugo Soares, who was so interested in this debate that he was no longer present, is the fact that they are not committed to serious discussion of the issues. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Portugal has a structural problem, which is called ordination of the territory and forests and which is aggravated, today, not only by climate change, which must be considered in this debate, but also by what has been the depopulation, desertification, the abandonment of our lands and the interior of our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u63	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u64	I conclude now, Mr President. Mr. Prime Minister, this State has made reforms and has agreed to the problem before these tragedies. More than a year ago, he adopted a set of measures for forest reform and recently adopted a set of measures to strongly wager in our country's decentralization. Therefore, Prime Minister, I wonder whether this reform and decentralisation will also be two structural and long-term instruments to combat fires, to prevent fires, but above all to give people a future in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u65	On behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor to ask for clarifications for five minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u66	Mr President, Prime Minister, for the first time, we have discussed a motion of censure on a tragedy. [[Ah...!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u67	In itself, this fact does not weaken it: the action of a government in the face of a tragedy can be evaluated and there may be a reason to resign that government. But a motion of censure is this, an instrument to resign a government, it is not about the pain or indignation of a country that, unfortunately, has suffered so much pain and so much indignation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u68	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u69	Therefore, to present this motion, as did the parliamentary leader of the CDS, as an instrument for the parties to assess whether the death of 100 people is serious is more than inappropriate, it is obscene. The Left Block demarcates at all this motion of censure. But, said this, there are questions to which the Government must answer, both about its responsibility for what happened and about its ability to remove the consequences, respond to the populations and prevent the recurrence of the tragedy. First of all, I am referring to the issues of responsibility. What happened? Or how could the government be so unprepared this year?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u70	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u71	in the Left Block, we did not minimize the climate changes, quite the contrary. We know that this was an unusual time, with extreme climate phenomena and an unparalleled drought, but we already knew that this was a year of great risks and the government should be better prepared. last winter, Parliament approved the reinforcement of the forest scaffolds proposed by the Left Block, but did not leave the paper.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u72	Yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u73	We also approved the Block's proposal that the forest surveillance this year should be atypical if it extended beyond the Charlie phase, but that did not happen. Soon after Pedrogão, we warned of the immediate need for a special civil protection plan so that the tragedy would not repeat, but nothing changed, the same phase Charlie kept, with the same demobilization of means at the end, without looking at the climate and without updating contracts with the air media. We now know that the IPMA (English Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere) warned of that dangerous Sunday night 72 hours before, but nothing was done. The Government must now answer this question: how was this possible? Secondly, there are questions about the future. How do we know that he's really going to change now? Will the decisions of the Council of Ministers be sufficient? The Block has proposed a new forest policy and forest fire control policy, which learns from specialists and from good international examples, and we are defending here a new government structure that brings together land planning, forest policy and fire control. We therefore look forward to the decisions of the meeting of the Council of Ministers on Saturday and here we affirm our support for the effort announced immediately to compensate, support, rebuild. But there is a lack of urgent action for the new environmental problems of ash and burned soils. There are also perplexities. Have public control over SIRESP ( Integrated System of Emergency Networks and Security of Portugal )? Great, the Block has already proposed it. But why keep private shareholders who have already failed? Involvement of the Armed Forces? Great, we always defend him. But how can you articulate your performance and who will be that responsibility? And they end private contracts in the air? But above all, we miss the commitment with essential steps: public bank of land for abandoned plots, clear responsibilities and means for cleaning the forest. These are the essential commitments to build a new, more resilient and safer forest. The question today is not just budgetary. The Block here is to ensure a budgetary policy that gives the people the necessary support and security and that it is able to organize the territory and we know that it is possible to do so - by continuing the income recovery strategy, because the country has to value more than the Brussels targets. The question today is not to compare the proposals on the right, which are censored, with those submitted by the Government. On the forest or civil protection, the right has nothing to say to the country, because its policy was to liberalize, cut, privatize and the results are in sight. The question is, therefore, whether the Government can do what is missing, because, Prime Minister, if civil protection and forest continue to be private business hostages, if the interior continues without public services and in the process of depopulation, if the territory continues to be abandoned and disordered, nothing changes, and that is no longer admissible. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u74	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u75	Mr President, I would like to thank Members Ana Catarina Mendes and Catarina Martins. It is very evident in this debate that, in the face of the devastation of the tragedy, the right response is to overthrow the government. For our answer is to rebuild the country, because that is what the country needs, to be rebuilt. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And the country needs to be rebuilt in its different temporalities. in the timeliness of the urgency of the « ja», what it is necessary to do is to compensate those who wait for justice, to repair what needs to be repaired, to rebuild housing and to create conditions for companies to maintain viability, to restore the productive potential of farmers. This is what we need to do now. But what needs to be done already has to be done simultaneously with what is strategic, with what has to do with the revitalization of the interior, with what has to do with the reorganization of the forest and also with what has to do with the new model of prevention and combating rural fires. in my initial speech, I have already said, so I will not repeat it, what we started two years ago on the revitalization of the interior and one year ago on the reform of the forest. And it is referred to there by the land bank, as well as the creation of the conditions for having today a management that values the forest in a sustainable way and that allows the fuel load to be reduced, and also refers to the measures relating to the cleaning of the forest. in the Council of Ministers, authorisations were approved to clean not only the tracks beside the roads and railways, but also the national forests, to extend to four more natural parks the pilot project which this year had so successful in the National Park of Peneda-Gerês, as well as measures were taken to strengthen the forest slag teams that this year have already left the paper having been, for the first time in many years, formed new teams. The Charlie phase was effectively prolonged and, as I had already had the opportunity to show in last week's 15-year debate, the National Civil Protection Authority (ANPC ) made, on day 14, and following the warning of the IPMA ( Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere ), a red alert to all the national territory with precise indications where pre-position of the media was necessary. Therefore, these measures were effectively adopted. We will have, over time, and when the environment permits it, an opportunity to see well the conditions of that day 15. Today, as a result of the deliberations of the Assembly of the Republic, we already know what happened on 17 June. This information exists and we must be consistent with it, because if, through a single consensus in the House, an Independent Technical Commission was created and the Board of Rectors was challenged to designate a set of experts - and all parliamentary groups have indicated specialists - the least we can do is respect the unanimous decision taken by the Commission on recommendations. for our part, we are at ease because the government was not represented in this Commission, but before this House, before the people and the victims, who demand not proclamations but effective solutions, and also because of respect for the technical and scientific competence of the members of the Commission, we feel that now our duty is to put into practice what they have recommended. We may be endless years discussing the best models, but if a methodology is established we respect those who know of this proposed methodology and we move from words to acts, we take the paper and put it on the ground. That is what the Council of Ministers has decided to do and that we have started and will implement by giving possession to the mission unit for the installation of the new Integrated Rural Fire Management System.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u76	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u77	I'm done now, Mr. President. The honourable Member asks whether we will be able to do so. I will tell you the following: we will be as capable of doing this as over the last two years we have been able to overcome all the impossible that many have said it is not possible to do with a change of policy. Now we will also make possible what many consider impossible. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u78	The Bureau recorded two more entries by Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group and Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of The Greens. First of all, in order to register, Mr António Filipe has the floor, which has five minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u79	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I take in your last words when you say there is a country to be rebuilt. This year's fires have left a trail of destruction and as for the necessary reconstruction is all to be done. There are compensations to guarantee, there is a forest and crops that have burned down and that it is important to recover, there are burnt houses that are important to rebuild, there are companies that have literally been reduced to ashes and others that have been seriously damaged. There is social support for situations of deficiency, situations of forced inactivity and loss of income, which is important to resolve as soon as possible. There is support for the reconstruction of houses and infrastructure that cannot be postponed. There is support for the recompositioning of the productive potential of companies so that they can start their work as soon as possible, so that they can guarantee jobs, so that they can maintain the orders they have to satisfy. But, Prime Minister, we are all aware that there is great mistrust in people. After what happened last June, in the fire of Pedrogon, months after this tragedy took place in October, people feel that no action has been taken with the speed and effectiveness that is imposed. It is known that the DECIF (Special Device for Combating Forest Fires) was disabled and should not have been. It is known that they remained to ensure the number of nature vigilantes who were supposed to guarantee under the State Budget for 2017. So, who talks to people, gets the sharp feeling that they are suspicious and think that nothing has been learned about what happened last June. It is true that a set of measures has been adopted in the Council of Ministers, but what is known is that these measures are in the role and that it is indeed necessary to be felt in the lives of people and that in fact people feel that there is a serious will, not only of proclamations, but of concrete actions and measures that people can feel in their daily lives. Mr. Prime Minister, if in the situation in which we are people become entangled in administrative bureaucracies, in which that role is lacking, in which there is that evidence that people have lost in the fires of their homes and that they cannot satisfy, if things get entangled in bureaucracy there is the risk of people saying: "After all, they have promised everything and they haven't given us anything! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Mr. Prime Minister, we need a guarantee that this will not happen. Secondly, support for victims and reconstruction requires budgetary commitment and, of course, investment. We know that the austerity measures of recent years have seriously undermined the country's ability to respond to such disasters. These are the consequences of the less-state policies, which have weakened our country so much. Mr Prime Minister, this budgetary commitment and the necessary investment cannot be denied, but there are voices there to say that, if there is a budgetary strike, it will have to be channelled to fires and prevention, harming social justice measures and reintroduction of incomes that are, from our point of view, unquestionably necessary. We do not want to admit that, on the pretext of the fight against fires, a kind of new troika will be created which will make absolutely necessary measures for the replacement of Portuguese rights and incomes. Mr Prime Minister, we wanted to have a guarantee that this will not happen and that the budgetary commitment needed to deal with this disaster is also not denied and that, as it is said, nothing remains as it was, but that this is not an excuse for fair expectations of the replacement of Portuguese rights and incomes. Mr. Prime Minister, that was the commitment we would like to achieve. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u80	Also to ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of The Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u81	Mr President, Prime Minister, there is no doubt that the immediate response must be directed directly to the support of those who need it at the moment, for the reconstruction, repair, compensation, replacement of elements as fundamental as water, energy, support for the reconstruction of housing, businesses, for the activities of farmers... That is indeed the immediate response that must be given. But at the same time, we must continue to work on structural solutions. For these solutions, the Greens, since the beginning of this legislature — not to mention previous legislatures — are making a strong contribution, in particular in the sense that once and for all, the expansion of continuous stains of eucalyptus monocultures or the need for effective strengthening of surveillance means and, specifically, the strengthening of the body of nature watchers, as we have worked both in the context of last year's State budget. So we're in time for solutions. Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to tell you that the Greens do not blame the government for the responsibilities it has had with regard to forest fires this year, but we will also not embark on what the CDS is seeking to do, which is to hold the current government fully accountable, seeking to acquit everything behind it and all the responsibilities of the successive governments behind it, whether they are the PS or the PSD, whether they are the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u83	And that absolve cannot be done, because if we have come to where we have reached this is reflected in a set of policies that have been pursued and that have actually brought us to this result, namely to realize that this climate change thing is a theoretical study that must be done and has almost no practical problem. We are seeing that this is not the case, and the solutions remain in the paper, without having gone into practice. Do you feel no responsibility, Mrs. Assumption Cristas? Oh, my God! Don't tell me you don't feel it! Do you not feel responsibility for promoting the depopulation of the country's interior, for the destruction of agriculture in this country, for reducing means of surveillance and also of civil protection? Oh, my God! Do you not feel any responsibility in some of these matters? Oh, my God! Do you feel no responsibility—I have already said so with all the letters—in relation to that familiar law, which has been approved, of the liberalisation of the eucalyptus? Oh, my God! Do you feel no responsibility for the substantial reduction in the budget for the ICNF (Instituto da Conservação da Nature e delle Foresta), the structure responsible for the forest? Oh, my God! Do you feel no responsibility for the cuts in the forest policy that you did during the reprogramming of PRODER(Rural Development Programme)? Oh, my God! Don't you feel any responsibility? Oh, my God! You want to erase everything behind you, acquit yourself, Mrs. Member? Oh, my God! That can't happen! In fact, we must all take on immediate but also structural responsibilities which have led us to these situations. That is why, Prime Minister, some concrete issues must be raised. For example, last year, in the framework of the State budget, we set out — because of great teimosia, if I may say so, of the Greens — that 50 more nature watchers would be hired. The competition was opened for 20 and so far—we are almost at the end of the year—there is no prospect of opening the competition for the other 30. What we were supposed to be doing, Mr. Prime Minister, was moving ahead now, perhaps, in the State Budget for 2018, with more than 50 nature watchers to, step by step, approach what is really necessary, because this body is as fundamental as that of the forest guards, as that of the forest safadors. In fact, we need to have this mass of response in the context of prevention which, in our perspective, is fundamental. But there is another question I cannot but ask Mr. Prime Minister. The Eng. Tiago Oliveira was appointed to the mission unit that will face fire matter. Mr. Prime Minister, at the moment, the country needs some credibility in the choices that are made and when Mr. Prime Minister appoints a person who comes from the Navigator group, who, as we know, has direct interest in the forest and in the sorting or disorder of our forest, which has interests, concrete business linked to the forest, it is legitimate for people to question whether a person who has so far been directly linked to the group...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u84	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member. You've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u85	I will now finish, Mr President. It is legitimate to ask whether this person will have credibility to give the structural answers that the country needs today. Indeed, Mr Prime Minister, we call for action, urgency and credibility. [[Applause from The Greens and Members of the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u86	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u87	Mr President, Mr António Filipe and Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, thank you very much for the questions raised. Mr.António Filipe, it is obvious that people have distrust. After what happened this summer, every citizen today has mistrust of the State's ability to ensure its safety. That is why for this trust to be reconstructed means radically removing political demagogy and focusing on reforms that can actually inspire confidence. We have been dealing with a similar matter 10 years ago and both of us remember how it was possible to build a consensus for a model that, bad or well, for 10 years, took time to do what unfortunately was not done in the reform of the forest sector. A system that allowed us to move from an average of 200 000 ha to a burning area of 70 000 ha per year. This reduction and this time have not, unfortunately, been taken advantage of and now we have to do not only what was to be done in the area of prevention, structural reform of the forest, the revitalization of the interior, but we have to do more in prevention and combat, because today, as the forest is even more disordered than it has been for ten years and with an even greater climate risk, what was no longer clearly enough. The best way to do something that inspires confidence is to build on two fundamental pillars: one, the scientific consensus that has been established in the independent technical committee; the other, the guarantee that the political commitment which, unanimously, led to the establishment of this committee now follows, giving all the support that must be given to the conclusions of those who VV. They set out precisely to propose reform of the system. by the government, that is what we will do. VV. They have set up the committee, and we will follow up on their recommendations. That is what we are responsible for doing, in order to move away from demagogy and anchor ourselves in the scientific consensus and political commitment to the solutions of the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] You are right, Mr António Filipe, about bureaucracy. Therefore, we eased the house licensing process, sufficient for mere prior communication when it comes to the reconstruction of houses prior to the existence of the RGEU ( General Regulation of Urban Buildings ). Through social security mechanisms, we eased bureaucracy in support of farmers who have damage up to €1053, and taking over payment from the REVITA Fund of all damage up to €5,000, so that these damage should not be covered by the Community mechanism, where bureaucracy is heavy, but where we have no room for manoeuvre in order to alleviate it. Mr President, I should like to ask you a fundamental question: if we are going to sacrifice any of the measures contained in the State budget to respond to the emergency and substantive reforms. No, none of the measures taken to restore Portuguese income, to increase investment or to relieve the tax burden will be sacrificed to respond to this state of emergency. There will be no change in our State budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, responding to the fundamental issue of the arrangement of the forest in the first three months of the action of this Government, one of the first measures was to award in February 2016 contracts for the development of regional plans for the management of the forest ( PROF) so that it would have effective planning plans. Public debate is already under way, at the moment and until the end of November, the PROFs relating to Lisbon and Tejo Valley and Alentejo will be, until the beginning of December, the North ; until the end of December, the Algarve ; and until the end of the first quarter of 2018, that of the Central Region. The PROF are moving forward because they are the basis of our forest planning. We have already launched the first competition for the 50 nature watchers and we are launching the second one to complete the 50 that had been registered in the State budget. I would like to tell you, Mrs Deputy, with all honesty, that Eng. Tiago Oliveira is neither an shareholder nor has any interest in the Navigator. He is a worker of the Navigator and is, above all, someone with a vast professional and civic curriculum—from the fireman, the forest scaffold, the doctorate in risk management and fire management—is a person who has, at the national and international level, a prestige to bullet proof and whose independence is, in fact, confirmed by the vast bibliography that is published and who attests to his thought and freedom of thought. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, I would like to say that the mission entrusted to you was not to manage the forest, it was to manage the transition of the forest fire prevention and control model, which is precisely its area, the area in which you did a doctoral thesis, the area in which you have worked throughout your life, the area in which you have extensive academic experience, but also practical experience of who was a fireman and also a forest slag. That is why I chose him and that is why I trust him to carry out this mission. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u88	The Bureau records two more entries for requests for clarification, those of Mr André Silva, of the PAN, and of Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes, of the PSD Parliamentary Group. First of all, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, we are here today, at the request of the CDS, to deliberate on the government for the failures in the tragic fires this year. Yeah, the state failed. It failed to implement the objectives set out in the law and in the various plans designed, failed in the forest planning, crushed by the policies of the immediate result and economic growth — that religion! A State has failed in recent decades to invest in the country, destroyed the rural world and little or nothing has done to contain depopulation and fix people in the territories. Yes, the state failed! All of this constitutes the premise for the CDS to justify the fall of this government. We will not enter into the sterile discussion about the possible political opportunism of the CDS about the feelings of pain and revolt of all of us. on the opposite side, we also do not consider that the fact that the CDS has serious and enormous responsibilities in forest and environmental policy for the time when it was the government to make it not legitimate to debate this issue. It will be for the Portuguese to assess whether the CDS is opportunistic, incoherent or irresponsible. Having said that, I wanted to say that approving this motion of censure means taking the country to early elections to choose another government. But let's see, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: in the NAP, we have memory and we know very well what we don't want. We are very well aware of the arrogance, failures and environmental attacks committed by the governments of José Socrates, Passos Coelho and Assumption Cristos. We remember, yes, and we will vote against this motion of censure because we have the complete conviction that the worst that could happen to the country at the moment would be to leave the elections with a PS majority government or a majority PSD / CDS. Even with failures and political options that we have openly disagreed with, this government demonstrates its desire to rebuild and has had a position to hear, dialogue and accept measures that have contributed to a better achieved government solution than before. Mr Prime Minister, in recent days the Government has approved some important measures, with which we agree, but they are almost all of a technical and operational nature and of an emergency response to populations. None is bound by two undisturbed structural problems and therefore I ask for answers to two questions. The first question concerns depopulation. Without people, we have two guarantees: death and fire. Policies are needed that create and take people inside, creating businesses and jobs. When will the Government present an economic and social development strategy in these regions? And how does this work with schools, courts and closed health centers? A second question concerns the forest we want. As a citizen, Mr. Prime Minister, I regret that my country imports oak wood for not replanting native forest. in the middle of the country that burned in the last few months, what's going to plant itself? Eucalyptus? Pinheiro? Mr Prime Minister, is the Government available to study, together with the NAP, the creation of a specific programme which compensates for the loss of income for a few years for the creation of oak forests, chestnut trees and other leafy trees, giving real options to the owners and associations of producers to move towards a more environmentally-friendly and profitable, medium- and long-term native forest? Finally, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister, the new political cycle that is required goes through a change of attitude towards our most precious asset: the environment. The government is not weakened, it is and it will be, yes, more scolded and accountable than ever. This is the chance. We then prioritize the defense and protection of our forest and our natural resources. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u90	To put questions to the Prime Minister, Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, I am a Member of the Leiria district. last June, 65 people died in the municipalities of Pedrogão Grande, Figueiró dos Vinhos and Castanheira de Pera. Four months later, on October 15th, more than half of my county, more than half of the Great Navy burned in less than 24 hours. The pinhal of Leiria and 700 years of history were completely reduced to ashes. These two fires, with dramatic consequences, occurred outside the Charlie phase, a phase where we would have more means at our disposal. We already knew about the extremely adverse weather conditions, the IPMA (English Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere ) had warned that October 15 would be the most dangerous of the year. The question I put to you, Prime Minister, is the following: why did the government not extend the Charlie phase? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u92	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u93	Mrs President, Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes, the Government had hardly heard that there were indications of a greater risk of fire, took the decision to extend the means available, reactivate resources that were disabled and thus sought to respond. The means were manifestly insufficient in the face of the conditions that existed and were so exceptional that, even in one of the areas with the highest concentration of moisture, such as Leiria pines, we had that degree of devastation on that day. Mr André Silva, the Government has already approved the National Programme for Territorial Cohesion, with a strategic vision for the revitalization of the interior. in the framework of the strategy for Portugal post-2020, whose public debate we started in June, one of the fundamental pillars has to do with, precisely, a new vision of what, bad, we used to treat internally, with what must be a large platform of centrality within the Iberian market. That is why at the Luso-Spanish Summit the Governments of Portugal and Spain agreed to develop a joint cross-border strategy with a view to applying for Community funds after-2020. But we have also taken measures. The State budget currently in force, the 2017 budget, already provides for reductions in IRC (tax on the income of legal persons) for businesses that settle inside. We have already adopted measures with some impact on the reduction of the value of tolls in some inland highways, we have already taken measures to encourage the establishment of doctors in the interior, we have already taken measures to reopen some of the courts that had been closed inside and we have not disabled any public service that is inside. But we have no doubt that a new strategic vision of that territory is necessary to restore the interior. This vision is reflected in the Government Programme and must be reflected in Portugal's post-2020 strategy. The honourable Member asked about the diversification of the forest. Yes, among the measures adopted by the Council of Ministers is precisely the creation of incentives to diversify forests. I want to tell you that we are working with the Ministry of Agriculture so that we can present to the European Commission a pilot project on the restructuring of the Portuguese forest because we have a specific problem, different from any other country in the European Union. This is a situation that deserves and needs to be studied and considered, because, as in the past, in the restructuring of industrial sectors such as those of the shipbuilding industry or textile industry, we need today for the restructuring of the forest, a specific programme. As it was today announced by President Juncker in the European Parliament, the Commissioner responsible for regional policy was asked to initiate with the Portuguese Government the study of a pilot project that could take into account this fundamental investment in diversification of our forests, which will perhaps pass not only by the incentives we have already provided, but also by measures such as those referred to as income support, so that we can have another type of forest, more resilient, better protected and that can effectively constitute an economic value for the country and, above all, an opportunity for development throughout the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u94	Let's start another round of three questions. First of all, Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u95	Mr President, Prime Minister, this is a strange debate of motion of censure, in which very little is involved in a government's political options and in which the issues raised by experts and the Technical Commission are sought to reduce to a minimum only the questions of decisions taken this year, which naturally interests its proponents, because this prevents the discussion of structural decisions taken in previous years. Let us focus, for example, on how Mr Amadeu Alberbergaria, who is from my constituency, on the question of naming the commands, which is particularly extraordinary in this case, because in the circle why we were both elected Members, the district commander is certainly one of the most qualified people at national level — indeed, he has already been appointed by the previous government — and the second commander is certainly not a boy because he is the first woman to perform those functions in the ANPC, because, in fact, a lot of honour. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u96	Read the report!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u97	Therefore, it is certainly not due to any lack of preparation of these professionals—it is perfectly unfair this concentration—which is due to the fires that occurred, for example, in the Aveiro district, last day 15. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask you, in this debate, to continue talking to people, as you did in your first speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u98	Take it easy he'll know more!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u99	Because when we visit the areas covered by the tragedy, what we are asked for is urgent support: support for victims, damage repair, support for those companies that have to continue to work to keep jobs that are currently at risk. On the other hand, Mr. Prime Minister, continue to speak to people in order to rebuild their confidence in the civil protection system, moving forward how we can now have a capacity of the State that can achieve, even outside what was traditionally the critical period of fire, to ensure what is essential: the protection of life and the protection of the goods of our citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u100	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government has informed the Bureau that, since there is no longer much time available, it will answer together the six questions that are still pending. The Members are still registered. Mr Pedro Soares, the Left Block, Nuno Magalhães, the CDS-PP, and Pedro Alves, Manuel Frexes and Mauritius Marques, the PSD. Mr Prime Minister will therefore answer these questions together. Mr Pedro Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u101	Madam President, Prime Minister : I reaffirm that meteorology cannot justify everything.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u102	Oh, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u103	Civil protection and forest must adapt to the new reality of extreme phenomena; the opposite will always mean more and more prolonged and severe fires. The State must assume this responsibility. So far, the State has failed, the minimal state has also been the crisis in the forest and in the rural areas. however, we do not see in this motion of censure a word about cuts, closure of services, liberalization, abandonment of territories and populations to their fate. This is the motion of censure which I would like to see in the forest all continue in the same: the eucalyptus with the guts for the celluloses, the lack of support for associivism, the cuts in the squatting firemen, the absence of public intervention in the forest. Each time we get to know better about the problems in civil protection that urgently need to be addressed and resolved, but we are fully aware that if the forest remains disorderly, abandoned, poorly managed and without economic rationality, with the proliferation of the monoculture of species of high flammable, there is no civil protection capable of effectively resisting uncontrollable and devastating fires. The latest situations in our country clearly demonstrate this. In fact, this is the greatest danger we are facing, Mr Prime Minister, the danger of everything continuing in the same way whenever it is necessary to make long-term changes and to confront the interests installed, those who have benefited from the chaos that is largely in the forest. The report by the Independent Technical Commission actually places the finger on the wound. Only 9, 6 % of the forest territory analyzed was subject to active management actions in the last five years on average less than 2 % per year. Now, this means a lot of the forest to abandon. Mr. Prime Minister, we don't just have to manage the fires, we have to manage the change in the forest. It is essential to change the forest, especially in the minifundia, as a prerequisite for reducing fires. For this, public intervention in the forest is required to include prevention, planning, combating abandonment and management, in a coordinated and integrated manner. It is not yet clear that this is the government's commitment. We are afraid that there is no capacity to address the economic interests of those who continue to benefit from the forest situation. Mr Prime Minister, is this the government's real commitment to the forest situation? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u104	To request clarification on behalf of the CDS-PP, Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u105	Mr President, Prime Minister, listening to you and the PS Parliamentary Group, we have heard that it is necessary to re-enter, rebuild, do what needs to be done, change what needs to be changed, repair what needs to be repaired, compensate the victims already and urgently. Well, Prime Minister, the question that any Portuguese is probably doing right now is: where have you been in the last four months, not to say where you were in the last two years?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u107	Only now do you remember the need to change? Only now do you remember the need to re-engage? Only now do you remember that you have to do what needs to be done? Mr. Prime Minister, what did you do in the face of the first Pedragon tragedy? You didn't do anything! He said it wasn't time, he said he respected time. Well, Prime Minister, you respected the time of the Minister of Internal Administration, respected the time of the Independent Technical Commission, respected the time of the Council of Ministers, only failed to respect the time of the Portuguese who had lost everything in the weekend of October. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister now announces measures, the CDS will also announce its own, but there is a measure I would like to confront: Mr. Prime Minister speaks of the failure of the civil protection model. Mr. Prime Minister, who did it in 2005? He was then the Minister of Internal Administration, António Costa. Mr Prime Minister will now change what he has done and, above all — that is the question — will change in the sense of what has already been done and that you have left the drawer. What's changed? Convictions or opportunity? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u108	Mr Pedro Alves has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u109	Mr President, Prime Minister, I am a Member elected by the electoral circle of Viseu, where, this summer, more than 200,000 ha of forest burned and 20 people died. Unfortunately for us, these numbers are not just statistics, Prime Minister, they are human lives that have been lost. Lives of loved ones, families and communities who today suffer bitterly from these losses. Mr. Prime Minister, after this tragedy, you said with harsh insanity that there was no doubt that a situation like this would be repeated in the future. » If for some critics it was severe to see a Prime Minister handing over the people to his luck, my concern went even further and left me, at the same time, puzzled, anxious and revolted. By analogy, I realized that already in Pedrogão Grande the Prime Minister was aware that a situation like this would be repeated and, in fact, repeated. And you, for omission and stubbornness, agreed, nothing did to avoid it, persisted in the error of the strategy and kept the narrative of the excuse that in four months there was nothing to do. There was, Mr. Prime Minister, but his lack of humility did not allow him and the tragedy repeated itself! Mr Prime Minister, it is also known today that the Minister, in the field of responsibility and ethics, has urged her to leave, and you, stubbornly, have kept the Minister in office without political conditions, without personal motivation and completely out of control. Why, Prime Minister? We haven't been able to know that answer yet. What is the reason for this insistence? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u110	On behalf of the PSD, to request clarifications, Mr Manuel Frexes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u111	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Portugal has experienced one of the greatest tragedies of memory this summer with the fires. in the middle of this catastrophe, my district, the district of Castelo Branco, was the one that recorded most burned area. In response to this misfortune, and after the fires of Pedrogão, his government rushed, and on the knee, a supposed forest reform, ignoring the proposals and solutions presented by the PSD and by various entities of the sector. Two months later, the report of the independent experts concluded that the PSD was right and that your so-called reform does not serve.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u112	What report is this on?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u113	Mr Prime Minister, do you now recognise the need for an extended consensus in order to promote forest reform for future generations or will you continue to lean on wrong prejudice-based solutions? In Castelo Branco and in the other affected districts, will we have simplified and equal access to European funds or will you continue the policy of this left, i.e. treat some as children and others as entities? Second short question: the Portuguese people are generous and, in the face of tragedy, they do not turn their backs, rather they mobilize, support, and access the most needy. I ask you, Mr Prime Minister, if it is no longer time for your Government to exempt from VAT the goods and services of those who contribute to the effort of reconstruction, namely houses, warehouses and other buildings, often replacing the State itself or if you think it is right to take advantage of the solidarity of the Portuguese. Mr. Prime Minister, helping those who help is the least your government should do. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u114	Mr Mauricio Marques has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u115	Mr President, Prime Minister, we will discuss the subject with the seriousness that the memory of the victims requires and that the suffering of the Portuguese calls upon us. It justifies Mr. Prime Minister what happened with the desertification of the interior and the forest management. I recall, Mr Prime Minister, that on 15 October, much of the coastal shore burned, from the Great Navy to the Vagos, much of it in national forests. Mr. Prime Minister, we know that what failed was combat, and the combat structure has a name: Antonio Costa. It was Antonio Costa Minister of Internal Administration who idealized and implemented the current system, underlining, at that time, as now, our volunteer firefighters. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u116	We know that it was with you, Prime Minister, that the system collapsed and that it was the origin of a real tragedy. We also know that Mr. Prime Minister used the former Minister as an individual and political protection in the most critical period of forest fires. We do not know, and we would like to know whether or not the Prime Minister knew that, in a period of great atmospheric severity, with all red alerts, his Government has reduced the fighting device to an unacceptable level for those conditions. Did you know, or did you not know, Prime Minister, that firefighting teams and ECIN(firefighting teams) have been reduced beyond all the recommendations of operational commanders? Did you know, or did you not know, that the air resources went from 48 to 18, a value lower than expected in the DECIF, by you, which was from 22 and at the time was in 18? Mr Prime Minister, I ask you: in terms of security of people and goods, were the captives that dictated the device? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u117	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u118	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, first of all, and I begin by replying to Mr Manuel Frexes, the reform of the forest did not arise in a hurry after the Pedrogão tragedy, the reform of the forest was presented for public discussion in October last year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This reform was in public discussion for months, and the part which was the responsibility of the Government came into force immediately, the other part entered the Assembly of the Republic in April this year, was in debate in general and in specialty during April. And what was put forward was the final process, after the Pedragon tragedy, but what about the government entered here in time and time, in April of this year. Mr President, in order not to be demagogy, I repeat what I said at the time: it would be unfair to say that the tragedy of Pedrogão was due to the fact that there has been no faster processing of parliamentary work, because we all have a responsibility to know that forest reform does not take effect tomorrow, it has effects in the medium and long term. This alert does not have to do with a fatality, but with the responsibility not to mislead the Portuguese and the awareness of the risks ahead. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Soares, our commitment to forest reform, yes, is a firm commitment — so we have launched it, so we have proposed it, so we have tried to build a broadest political consensus here. But, as you know, this political consensus had limits, and we did not define them, nor was it, in the specific case, the Left Block that defined them. But since the votes of the Socialist Party with those of the Left Block still do not form a majority in this Assembly of the Republic, the reform had the limits it had. But that is why we will stop implementing this reform and rely on it as an essential step in order to be able to do what is necessary in the Portuguese forest. Mr Nuno Magalhães, we did not stop following the Pedrogon case, we did not stop with regard to what was urgent and immediate. First, we respond to the need for the reconstruction of the territory: there are 61 houses already built, there are 90 already in operation and the remaining 70 are in pre-adjudication. 1500 farmers have already been supported and the lines of support for the companies that have been affected are already created. With regard to the association of victims, we have fulfilled what the government has committed to do. At the end of the Technical Committee of Inquiry, defined the responsibilities, we will assume - and we will create an extrajudicial mechanism to compensate for what is, unfortunately, irreparable, the loss of human lives. That is what we have done and that is what we will continue to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say, quite frankly, that I had the honour of conducting a process of reforming the forest fire control system 12 years ago, which has, in fact, deserved a great consensus in this House of the Republic. This new model did not disrespect the firefighters, valued them, and completed their availability with the beginning of a capacity by the State in the first intervention through the GNR ( Protection and Relief Intervention Group ). And with this new model we lowered from an average burning area of 200 000 ha to 70,000 ha. I would also like to recall that in 2011 I had the opportunity to tell and remind the country that that reform had lent only time to make the needed forest reform and to make the prevention reform that I had to do. The only thing you can accuse me of is having done, as Minister of State and Internal Administration, my share of what was needed to do. I regret that the other pillars have not done the same with regard to what was necessary and that it has not been done for 10 years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Unfortunately, 2016 and 2017 showed that I was right in 2011. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u119	That is, not being done in the forest what is structural to do and not responding, in the preventive pillar, to what it is necessary to answer, obviously the system has no conditions to respond to situations like this. [[PSD protests.]] We must all be aware that, year by year, we will have a more difficult context, because a forest that is not ordered the following year is more disordered, because a climate change creates a worse context the following year. What we had this year was the repetition of two unique meteorological phenomena, which, while not apologizing for what has happened, demonstrate only our responsibility and our duty today to reform not only the forest, but also the planning of the territory, but also our system of prevention and combat, which is exhausted and which needs to have another way of working. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why I, with all will, today as my own responsibility to implement what is proposed by the Independent Technical Commission, created by this Assembly of the Republic. In fact, it implies reforming what has been done 12 years ago, because 12 years later it is necessary to do different things. And, fortunately, today, I am in a position not only to do what I did at the time but also to do what was to be done at the time and over these 12 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u120	You want to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u121	I shall conclude, Madam President. Finally, I would like to say to Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade that we are going to have more capacity throughout the year, because we are going to integrate the fight with prevention, prevention that mobilizes divers, prevention that mobilizes monitoring, prevention that mobilizes forest guards, both at the stage of prevention and at the stage of combat. So we're going to have greater capacity all year, because we're going to integrate the air resources, as we wanted 12 years ago in the Air Force, to have permanent capacity to fight forest fires. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We will also have more capacity on the part of the state, because we will value emergency military support and we will once again develop and densify GNR GIPS, which has been created for 12 years and never been developed again. It is therefore time to develop because the State must also have its own capacity to develop. But we will not, with this, replace, or destroy, this greater and unique wealth that the country has, which is voluntary, and which has to be valued. So we are going to have a programme that will expand the network of professionalization in the frame of firefighter bodies through permanent intervention teams, 365 days a year, because we also have to adapt to having firefighter bodies in the territory with professional nuclei, with more capacity, better trained and better conditions to perform their first function, which is to protect populations and their goods. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u122	Mr Prime Minister, as happened during the opening of the debate, the three minutes you have exceeded will be discounted in the time available by the Government during the closing period. Mrs. Members, having completed the requests for clarification to the Government, for an intervention, have the floor of Mr Pedro Mota Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u123	Madam President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This motion of censure not only serves to be the voice of the legitimate outrage of many Portuguese in the face of the tragedy that has stolen lives and devastated our territory, this motion serves, above all, to answer the questions: « What must we do so that the State will again be worthy of the trust of those to whom it has failed? "How can we ensure that the State does everything it can to ensure that such a catastrophe does not happen again? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” of the report of the Independent Technical Commission, of the reports which this House has already produced, of the report of Professor Xavier Viegas, of many measures which were already planned and which this Government has adjourned, of the many mechanisms already provided for in the law but which have not been used, we must be able to withdraw concrete action measures. And that's also what the CDS wants to do here today. Our proposals aim at two areas: first, the protection of persons and goods and, second, the promotion and exploitation of the territory. We have the notion that we must act in strengthening means, but we also have the notion that we must act in order to improve organisation and management. The CDS therefore proposes, in the area of protection, the strengthening of means: One, reactivating the national body of forest guards, ensuring an effective presence on the ground. Two, redefine the mission and status of firefighters, in order to exist a professional body of national coverage. Three, assign to the Air Force the management, operation and maintenance of air resources and reactivate the programme for the acquisition of amphibious fixed wing air resources, as indeed had been proposed by Parliament and initiated by the previous Government. Four, also with regard to the role of the Armed Forces, create a special unit formed and equipped for civilian protection missions. Five, invest in human and technological means to have a new network of surveillance posts. Six, professionalize fire fighting teams from fire associations, so that they are operational throughout the year. Seven, also with regard to firefighters, we propose to create a new program for the acquisition of personal protective equipment and the recovery and acquisition of operational vehicles, allowing the replacement of those that were acquired in 2014 and 2015 when their lifetime ends. at the level of promotion and requalification of the territory, proposes: Eight, support the owners for greater intervention in the forest, through the introduction of tax benefits and a loss of income premium to whom plants species with less profitability in the short term. Nine, creating a support programme enables the remuneration of the most valuables the rural world provides to the country and which promotes proper management of the undercover. Ten, strengthen and empower forest slag teams with a greater link with operational command. Eleven, ensure the completion of the fuel management bands and the divisional network in accordance with the exact terms proposed by the Independent Technical Commission. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as important as strengthening the means is the bet on the organization and management of the instruments we have at our disposal and at this level the CDS proposes: Twelve, reform the organic model of the National Civil Protection Authority, separating the command function from the coordinating function. Thirteen, ensure the selection by invitation to tender of those responsible by means of entities outside the Government itself. Fourteen, recover the model of the operational areas between the district level and the municipal level, as well as reactivate the supra-district operational response model previously provided by district group commanders. Fifteen, evaluate the training model of the National School of Bombers. Sixteen, value investment in pre-positioning means, as a way to ensure the effectiveness of the initial attack, regardless of the timetable. Seventeen, mitigate existing risks in areas of urban-florestal linkage. Eighteen, ensure the existence of an annual controlled fire plan by accredited technicians and the diversification and compartmentation of forest spots. Nineteen, set up the collaborative laboratory, as suggested by the Independent Technical Commission. I saw, ensuring the warning to populations when there are fires, involving social communication and mobile communication companies. Twenty-one, finance strong awareness-raising campaigns for risk activities in conjunction with authorities, local authorities, social institutions, civil society and social communication, as well as a broad campaign to disseminate the most critical periods. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the presentation of this motion we have achieved two objectives which the Portuguese of us demanded: first, censoring who failed; and secondly, working so that the same mistakes are not made again. If the Government that failed to remain in office, that is an option and responsibility of the Left Block, the PCP and the Socialist Party. for our part, the option is clear: everything to do so that there is an effective change, so that the State returns confidence to the Portuguese and, above all, so that the State does not again fail. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u124	Mr João Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u125	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Members: This motion of censure, presented by the CDS, is an invaluable use of the tragedy of forest fires to hide the right-wing policy that is at the root of fire problems and to shed a sponge on the responsibility of its executioners. [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u126	The approval of this motion of censure would serve only the instrumentalization that the CDS is seeking to make of the tragedy and its victims and would not solve any of the problems that are placed with forest fires. The rejection of this motion of censure cannot be regarded as a basis for confidence in the options and decisions taken regarding the prevention and fight against forest fires, much less corresponds to the idea that the defence of the forest against fires can be achieved without changing the options that have postponed the implementation of policies and measures that have long been identified, in particular the budgetary means they need.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u127	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u128	It is clear that the options and decisions of the current government need to be questioned and criticized, since they have not invested previous investment options in forest management and fire fighting, but this criticism cannot hide or devalue the true origin and responsible for forest fires. The tragedy of forest fires is the result of problems accumulated in the Portuguese forest for decades of right policy. The responsibility for these problems is not from the abstract State, it is from successive governments — PS, PSD and also CDS — who carried out this policy with considerable responsibilities of the former PSD / CDS Government in the disarticulation and destruction of public services, of social functions of the State. The reality there is dramatically confirming the reason for the CFP when it alerted to the consequences of these policies. Here is the dramatic result of the right-wing policy that has abandoned the people and the interior of the country, which has extinguished the parish, which has dismantled the state and public services and reduced workers, which has delivered the productive sectors, including the agroforestry sector, to the logics and laws of the market and which has privatized important responsibilities of the State in relation to civil protection. What failed was not the State; it was the right-wing policy and its executioners that left the populations unprotected and delivered to their own fate. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] Of course, the CDS does not want to debate the true origin and those responsible for the tragedy, because this would involve discussing the responsibilities of the CDS itself in forest fires and they are evident. The CDS also does not want to debate the substantive political options that are necessary to solve these problems, because the CDS has no alternative to the right-wing policy that has always defended and practiced and that has led the country to this disaster. The way forward to solve the problems that we are facing today must be that of breaking with the right-wing policy, starting with the refusal of external taxation which limits the necessary measures. It is not acceptable that debt, deficit or any other foreign taxation to the interests of workers and the people will condition the capacity to respond to the serious problems of the forest and the rural world. The CFP will insist on this debate with the importance and depth it requires, not forgetting the intervention we have had over the years, but also with the sense of urgency that many of the measures must be taken. For years, the PCP has been fighting for solutions that could have already solved many of the problems that persist. In June the CFP brought to the Assembly of the Republic proposed that there should be an immediate response to the victims of fires, but also to strengthen the prevention and fight against fires. Thus, we proposed measures to ensure compliance with the rules on road and rail safety lanes, power grids and other essential infrastructures, hiring nature watchers and forest scaffolds, strengthening and expanding the Special Arrangement for Combating Forest Fires and the civil protection communications system. We now insist on the need for substantive options to ensure the defence of the forest, the forest planning, the conditions of subsistence of the populations and support for the productive sectors and the adequacy of the structure, organization and means of civil protection. We also insist on the immediate response to the problems of the affected populations, in compensation for the victims of fires, in taking measures to prevent these and other disasters from happening again, in particular, taking into account all the dangers now posed by fires. We insist on these proposals and do so with the exact notion of the situation of absolute shortage in which fire victims are found, because also in recent days the PCP Members have been in touch with this harsh reality. Forest problems must be solved by their own financial and budgetary means rather than by alternative to other national problems which also need a response. The solution to the problems of the country is not the exacerbation of exploitation and impoverishment, it is not the dismantling of the State, nor its capture at the service of economic and financial groups, it is not the cut or limitation of public investment, nor the reduction of workers, it is not the diversion of billions of euros to the bank that are then missing to respond to the structural problems of the country. The solution to all these problems in the country lies in the inversion of these options, in the realization of an alternative, patriotic and left-wing policy that guarantees the sovereign development of the country and the response to the interests of the workers and the people. The PCP will continue to hit that path. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u129	Mr Jorge Duarte Costa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u130	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The parliamentary leader of the CDS presented the vote in the motion of censure as an assessment of whether “the death of 100 people is serious”. This motion of censure, the first record of a tragedy, emerged in the middle of the heat of the fire and in full national mourning. To all this, the CDS added a dishumanization discourse of the opponent: whoever accepts the text of Assumption Cristas, believes that the death of 100 people is serious; whoever rejects the text of Assumption Cristas, is a liar and believes that the death of 100 people is not serious. This is a very dangerous kind of political maneuver, of the worst that politics and Parliament can give to the country. Today it is also at stake if we accept, as democracy and as Parliament, the instrumentalization of victims and the inhumanization of opponents as forms of political debate. Mrs Catarina Martins has already stated the criticism of the Left Block to the performance of the authorities between June and October. This is the debate on the structure, resources and coordination of civil protection, the debate on how we can avoid new tragedies like this. But the most difficult mistakes to correct and therefore the most heavy responsibilities are in the field of prevention, as pointed out in the report of the Independent Technical Commission to the Pedrogon tragedy, and which are located in continuous monocultures of eucalyptus and pine, in abandonment, in minifundio, in the lack of active management, in the uncontrolled of fuels, insufficiency and failures in combat structures. At the end of his term of office, the current government must, of course, respond for these two years, but the Member of the Assumption Cristos, for its part, responds for four and a half years in front of the forest policy and land planning. Four and a half years in which it reduced the defense of the forest, in which it ended with the National Forestry Authority and with the Integrated Structural Prevention Device, in which it liberalized the eucalyptus plantation, in which it privatized the baldiums, in which it abandoned forest paths and water points and in which it disarticulated district and municipal plans to defend the forest. Has the state failed? You failed, yes! But how can today arise against the failures of the State those who have always demanded a minimum state,... [[Ah!...!]] [[Ah!...!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u131	... those who specialized in cutting into supposed "fats", which were, after all, the very muscle of public policies? [[Congratulations from BE.]] How can those who have made their mandate a permanent closure — schools, courts, courts, post offices, health centres — be found in rural defenders, thus promoting the abandonment of the interior? The consequence was a population exodus for emigration during the rule of the right government and your policies. Now, instead of moving forward with consistent proposals to help solve the problems...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u132	He didn't hear anything! He didn't hear anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u133	... that helped to create over four years, the Deputy Assumption Cristals dedicates itself to the political pettyness of a small dispute with the PSD, without any benefit to the many thousands affected by the catastrophe. by the Left Block, we will continue to fight for brave solutions to respond to climate change and to protect the forest, people and their goods. We will not always agree with the government on these options, but we will fight again, taking all the terrible lessons this year. in defining the great options you need to make, and already in the State Budget for 2018, we will contribute to all good solutions. This motion of censure has only proved what we already knew of four years of experience: in the forest and in the public services, right-wing policies are only part of the problems. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u134	Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u135	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I want to start with a previous point. over the last few days much has been said about the creation of conditions of convergence and consensus regarding the response that the country must find in the face of the tragedies that occurred this year. We in the PSD have already said that we are available to seek these consensuss, but there is one that must always be above this consensus, which many now speak, which is the consensus on the rules of democracy. In democracy, the government governs, Parliament controls and parts of it supports the policies of the government, while the opposition scrutinises the action of the government and administration, which is protected by the government, and must do so always with a sense of responsibility but also with a sense of opportunity. What the left-wing benches, which support this government, have been saying four months ago about the intervention of the PSD and the CDS-PP, fulfilling precisely this summit role of the opposition parties, is a disregard for this consensus on the rules of democracy. What you wanted was the silence of the PSD and the CDS-PP, but this silence is not the same as the democratic regime, it is the dictatorships that work in molds that you know much better than we do. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this debate has a specific and concrete basis: to ascertain the failure of the government and the services protected by it in the defence of people — I repeat, in the defence of people — of their lives and their possessions, but always in the defence of people. This government, which has completed half the legislature, in a context of financial, economic and social normality, in a context of political stability and support by its majority in parliament, has failed and has failed cryingly. He failed at the exact moment when he was subjected to a fire test and this fire test is even in the literal sense and in the metaphorical sense. Testimony, the government failed. The question put by this motion is simple: the action, the omission, the confusion that the Government had in facing the forest fires this year, deserves, or does it not deserve, a political censorship of Parliament? We answer: it deserves! You deserve it, yes sir! A government that has failed to prevent and combat fires; a government that in May had defined the goal 'zero', the zero target meant zero deaths in forest fires; a government that after being alerted in March — I repeat, in March — by the specialist Xavier Viegas that the summer that was coming would be complicated by drought and that had a response to this warning by the National Civil Protection Authority, which was this and was stoned: 'Civil Protection does not foresee, it prevents', this was the response of the services protected by this government ; a government that was still incompetent to the last tragedy of 15 October, was notified three days before the climate conditions; a government that used the card and the interest of the Socialist Party to appoint people for the structure and the command of the Civil Protection ; a government that was incapactivated, which was politically negligent, yes, deserves political censure! A government that so far, and now, has outlined the blame for the previous government, but which has dropped, either in 2016, either in 2017, or in the 2018 forecast, the Civil Protection appropriations at a level below that we had in 2015, yes, deserves censorship! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u136	A government that, in full crisis, instead of showing sensitivity, authority and command, has displayed disorientation, disorientation, services attacking services, failures in all systems, almost daily public contradictions, yes, is a government that deserves censorship! A government that after Pedrogão came until mid-October to use the reform of the forest as an alibi of its responsibilities for its responsibilities, for the responsibilities of what was happening, for the responsibilities of what happened next, a government that turned its people, which gave it to itself, yes, is a government that deserves censorship! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u137	A Prime Minister who appears to the country in the morning from 15 to 16 October, after several tragedies, after more than 100 deaths, after the failure of his own command, not as a skilled and experienced politician, as many say he is, but as a medium-class technocrat for once again saying what? It was necessary to implement the reform of the forest. A Prime Minister who thus heads the Government and who treats his people with this insensitivity, yes, is Prime Minister of a government who deserves political censure from Parliament! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Now, by speaking about forest reform—until the Prime Minister also said it indirectly— it should be remembered that in the last 22 years, the Socialist Party has ruled 15 and that the Governor who since 25 April has had more exercise in the Ministry of Agriculture is sitting there, is the current Minister of Agriculture. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] But it's a government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, without a word, also without a word. I mean this very seriously: I'm human... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u138	...and I know how to put myself in other people's situation. I imagine the suffering and anguish that the former Minister of Internal Administration has experienced, and I have respect for it, but the respect I have for this distress and for this suffering cannot inhibit or inhibit us from making a political assessment. [[PSD applause.]] Politically, the former Minister of Internal Administration lied to the country and lied with the complicity of the Prime Minister who knew the lie, and I'm not the one saying it is the letter of resignation of itself that says so crystallically. [[PSD applause.]] Who went on to say that he did not abandon the command, that it was time for action and not for resignation, was the Minister, when we came to know that, from Pedrogão, he had already asked to leave the Government for feeling fragile to fulfill his mandate. Whoever does this, whether as a minister or as a Prime Minister and with his complicity, deserves the political censure of Parliament! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Finally, it is a government that often uses political hypocrisy. It is a government that has led here in Parliament the PSD proposal to create the status of low-density territories, which has led the PSD project on the creation of a register of properties, which has led to the creation of a mechanism to compensate people, which has ignored the PSD proposals on decentralization in the area of civil protection. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister : They can appeal to the consensus and we will be available here for this consensus, which cannot be said that the country did not count on the PSD. The country did not count on the PSD proposals because you rejected them, you rejected them, and today you suffer the consequences of not having approved these instruments longer and we are now running behind the damage. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government deserves the audible censorship of the CDS and the PSD, and the Government also has several expressions of censorship of the PCP and the Left Block, as we have now just heard, but these are in a lower voice and will not be expressed in the vote. It remains curious what the Left Block and the PCP say today, respectively vice champion and champion of motions of censure, about the presentation of the said ones. [[PSD laughter.]] But, finally,...! [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] What I mean is that, in this framework, Mr. Prime Minister knows that he needed Parliament's confidence, a positive confidence, is not a negative or even non-existent trust, as Mr. João Oliveira said a short time ago, but this happens for a natural and obvious reason, is in the genius of this government. This government does not exist to pursue a project or program, this government exists to prevent another, led by the PSD, from existing. The motion of trust was very important here, and I went looking for the best way to explain why it was important...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u139	Everybody noticed that.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u140	... and I will read to you very quickly the statement of an intervention, which I never forgot, when I entered here in 2002.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u141	I really ask you to be very quick, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u142	It's fast, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u143	Take a good look at your inspirations.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u144	There was a parliamentary leader of the Socialist Party who, before a majority government of the PSD and the CDS, in which the party that was leading had won the elections and the other had gone to the government, said, and I quote the following: « (...) the presentation and expected approval of the motion of trust define and establish the parliamentary legitimacy framework of this government. This clarification is very positive, because it states a parliamentary majority that guarantees stability to the government, ensuring that it, without alibis, conditions for the full implementation of its Programme. But it is also positive, because it clarifys the framework of parliamentary investment. From today on, the legitimacy of this government rests and depends on support (...), it is not the rejection of the motion of censure, it is the effective support — support, vote in favour — of the parties, who at the time were the PSD and the CDS and who are now the PCP, the Left Block and the Green Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u145	You're wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u146	It is, indeed, Dr. António Costa who said this as the parliamentary leader of the Socialist Party, who forgets what he said, who has no word. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The word, once again, was not honored, Dr. António Costa. I will finish, Madam President...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u147	Stop right there, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u148	I shall even finish by telling the Government, the ladies and gentlemen. Members and the Country: this government exists only with the aim of having no other. We, PSD, know that one day we will have to lead the government again, but at that time this government led by us will not exist to prevent your existence, will exist to take care of people's lives, will exist to prepare the future of this country,... [[Protests from PS, PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u149	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u150	...will exist to have a just society, a solidarity society, a society that creates wealth and that can distribute it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u151	Sir, your time is up.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u152	It will be above all a government that will exist not to fail as this failed. [[PSD applause, stand up, and CDS-PP.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u153	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Carlos César.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u154	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mrs Deputies and others. Members: After these unfortunate events—and already should be so—we have an almost unique obligation, not to defeat the hope of the Portuguese with the useless debate, with the personal attacks and the bold and continuous diatribe, which we have seen here today by the CDS and the PSD. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] After all that has happened, I'm sure the Portuguese are thinking, above all, about what has to be done. And if the government is to act, it is up to the opposition to make it act and do it in the best way. The best way of doing this would have been to, assuming our collective responsibilities, each one propose before opposing. Well, contrary to what the CDS has always wanted to do. If the CDS wanted this motion of censure to cause Parliament to take an act of distrust before the government, it was hasty. We will soon have the debate and vote on the State budget in this House and at that time we will see who has the confidence of who and who is the legitimate government of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in this sense, the initiative of the CDS that is taking us today was not a good contribution. It is worth noting that, by recognizing the civic impropriety of the initiative, they would exchange the motion of censure for the proposals they are now talking about and, preferably, more original. In any case, it is up to us not to prolong the noise tried, which only impairs the action that is claimed. where the PS matters, it is possible to hear and incorporate what you well understand will be or has already been proposed, and it will certainly compete with the government. We must follow the call of our unity of purpose and action, underlined by the Government and the President of the Republic, it is up to us to do so with or without the PSD and the CDS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members: We must reaffirm the trust among those who have been struck by the severity of the disaster, which has devastated so many regions of the country, who has left deep marks with fatal victims and who will forever mark the memory of children and young people who have experienced frightening moments. We have to do without further delay and technical and administrative 'drugs'. This was the main message that PS Members have learned most in these days, in contact with the affected populations and committed themselves to follow in the future. And we have to do with courageous budgetary options, as has already been said here by Mr. Prime Minister. We cannot stop doing what is essential to do by accommodateing the expenditure that is necessary, this year as in the following. in the last State budget submitted by the CDS and the PSD in 2015, the word « fires » appears three times, two of which to justify decreases in funds for the fight against fires. If the motion of censure presented here meant the contrition that to all—yes, to all, without exception! — we must do so, because we have not chosen the priorities well and managed to prepare the country for these hardships, we would all possibly agree, although we have more responsibilities than others. But its aim was only that those who went wrong before, and do not want to admit it, censor those who, in his words, went wrong later. We have no doubt: the errors in the selection of these priorities do not focus on the last two years of governance or on those who, over the decades, have alternated in the government, also reach all those who, at all times, in the party opposition, from the right to the left, have always given other signs and have always pointed out other priorities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Despite the current government's attempt to reverse the devalue and fragility of the structural dimensions and civil protection instruments—which could be better involved, preventive and actively, in what has happened—we all agree that civil protection in these fires was not exempt from deficiencies, even considering the huge dimension of the phenomena that have erupted. What we owe at this time to the Portuguese people, who look at their political institutions in question, is a review of our historical priorities — whether we are or will be on the side that the sad reality has shown us that we must be. That was the good choice that the Government made in its last Council of Ministers. Finally, Mr President, saying that our fight, as the Prime Minister has explained, is the immediate response to what has happened, taking decisions, I repeat, making decisions in compensation to the victims' families, in cooperation with the authorities, in the replacement of infrastructures, emergency goods and essential services, in the recovery of housing and businesses, in support of reinvestment, in the necessary contribution of the health and support and social security systems, and in particular in the inadequate reformist dimensions of fire prevention and combating, civil protection and the deepening and implementation of agricultural and forestry reform. The takeover, which has already taken place, of the President of the Mission Unit for Integrated Management of Rural Fires is another good sign. That is what we are committed to, with the heart and the reason for what is most important to the Portuguese. That's what worries us and deals with us in the PS. The CDS lost today, here, a time that could have offered to the country. Our commitment is not to waste any more time, a time that is precious to the Portuguese. [[PS applause, stand up.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u155	Mrs. Members, even before the end of the debate, have the floor for an intervention, Mr João Pinho de Almeida.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: when speaking in this debate, I could not fail to begin by lamenting the deaths of our fellow citizens who, during this summer and in subsequent events, have lost their lives, express solidarity to their families and to all the affected populations and also express a huge gratitude to all civil protection officers, from the outset to the firefighters of Portugal, for having competed, with their self-contribution and enormous effort, so that the tragedy was not even greater. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The motion of censure is not prohibited but must be used in a weighted manner. That is exactly the way the CDS stands in this debate, not precluding a right that has and does not trivializing an act that is a relevant act and that cannot in any way be trivialized. We do not let ourselves be conditioned by the opportunists, by those who, having no speech to defend the government, think that they can hide themselves by attacking the opposition. These, yes, are the opportunists of this debate,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u157	... those who are not on either side, who have to say something and who say something without, indeed, meaning absolutely nothing, because they are absolutely inconsistent between what they do and what they say. [[CDS-PP applause.]] But we go to the one who is the foundation of the CDS motion of censure, of its opportunity. When there is a failure of the State, when there are deaths, when there is the greatest burning area of all time, when there is the repetition of tragic events—Pedragão and the 15 and 16 October—who can say that he never presented a motion of censure for reasons less powerful than these? Oh, my God! Who can say that, in a democracy in which we all have a duty to examine who represents the State, these are not the most important reasons for us to exercise this right and this obligation to present a motion of censure, when, in opposition, we have to represent those who are not seen in who is in the government and who have felt betrayed by this government's inability to deal with the problems it has to face? Oh, my God! But worse: who can understand that we can refrain from exercising the obligation that we have to represent all those who have exactly that position? Oh, my God! But let's look at it by contrast: who believes that if by any chance what happened in a PSD government and CDS government, those who are now talking about opportunism would not be the first to demand consequences? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u158	So it's just a beer!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u159	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we know them well, but most importantly, the country also knows you very well. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The country knows very well what you would do if the PSD and the CDS were in government and, therefore, you know that you have a deep hypocrisy with your current attitude,... [[Protests by Members of the CFP and the Greens.]] ... because they do exactly the opposite, in relation to a PS government, than what they would do if the PSD and CDS were in government. And so the country knows that you do not move by your principles, you move by the political position in which you are and by the party interest you have at every moment. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u160	Let's say that to Largo do Caldas!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u161	With regard to the grounds, the parties supporting the government did not contradict the fact that the State failed, did not contradict that it was possible to have done more to prevent what had happened, did not contradict the accusation that everything had not been done to prevent what had happened, did not counter that there had been no changes in good time, did not contradict that the errors were not amended and did not contradict that, unfortunately, in a short time, the tragedy repeated itself. If you do not object, how can you question the grounds for which you are censored? Oh, my God! If they have no arguments to contradict the arguments of whom to censure, why do they think that such censorship is not legitimate? Oh, my God! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We take the representation very seriously and we think it is possible to have different positions. Anyone who believes that everything that has happened must not have as a result a withdrawal of political consequences has in the PS, the Left Block and the PCP, who represents them; who understands that what has happened is too serious, cannot be repeated and that the State cannot fail in this way without its representatives being held accountable will certainly have in the CDS its voice and in this motion of censure the expression of that voice. It is true that in politics we have to make choices, but between the choice and the risk of being accused of opportunism by those who make opportunism a way of life and beat us by the representation of those who effectively demand that we raise our voice right now, we can well with the criticism of the opportunists, because we are sure that we are representing those who effectively deserve to represent them here. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are certainly those opportunists who believe that it is possible to demand responsibility for others and ask for rain for themselves, that it is possible to go through a tragedy without taking consequences, that it is possible to err without apologizing. These, who think so, will probably end up doing what they were supposed to do yesterday and tomorrow will be too late to do what was their obligation. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: That is not our way. As I said, we take the representation very seriously. We cannot let or cease to represent those who concentrate their feelings on indignation and, above all, we cannot let or cease to represent those who, by their indignation, demand one thing: censorship! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u162	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus reached the end of the debate. For an intervention on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Development has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u163	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members, Prime Minister and other members of the Government : The debate on the motion of censure presented by the CDS-PP is coming to an end. A motion of censure that was announced on the first day of the national mourning decreed following a tragedy that sacrificed lives, destroyed families, transformed houses and businesses into ruins, killed animals and destroyed forests, orchards and agricultural crops. This means that at a time when the country mobilized itself in relief and solidarity with the victims, CDS members concentrated their energies on seeking arguments to gather support to overthrow the government. It should be remembered that this is a party which has made a national reading of the elections and which, having obtained 2, 6 % of the votes, has declared itself an alternative to government. In addition to the fact that your only possible partner of government is without leadership and at a time of internal dispute that will be prolonged for several months, which says everything about the real intentions of this motion. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This motion, and the precipitation of the political crisis underlying it, still arises at a time when the country lives a moment of political stability, growth of the economy, increase of incomes and improvement of living conditions of the middle class and the most vulnerable strata of our society, which is necessary, above all, to consolidate. How, then, do you explain this motion? The answer is very simple, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: this was a mere political stratagem to use Parliament and, through it, seek to draw the country's attention to the competition between the PSD and the CDS by the leadership of the Portuguese right. [[P.S.'s applause.]] By this way, the CDS only seeks to derive its own profits, with the cheerful complicity of the main party to whom the motion is truly directed, the PSD. It is a legitimate dispute, no doubt, but, we agree, the moment is totally inappropriate and the instrument absolutely inadequate. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I do not mean by this that the issues of fires, civil protection and forest reform are not important issues, which Parliament must exempt itself from and which should not have any illusions and consequences. Far from it! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] They are structural themes, of first magnitude and of absolute national priority that must mobilize all state institutions, civil society organizations and citizens in search of the best solutions so that such tragedies never repeat themselves and that in the future we can defend better lives, heritage and natural goods. The President of the Republic has made successive calls for a broad national consensus on these issues, and the Government has also been acting in this direction for the first time and continues to consider that this is desirable and possible. Long before we even imagined that a tragedy like the one that happened in Pedrogão could happen, the government began the task of implementing, with a long-term vision, the deep forest reform, soon in mid-2016. It began by identifying problems whose solution goes through the submission of concrete proposals: in the field of forest management, creating the figure of professional managers and granting considerable tax incentives to stimulate their growth and multiplication, as well as simplifying the establishment of forest intervention zones; in the field of planning, advancing with the implementation of regional forest management programmes, which the CDS did not have time to complete in four years, and the obligation of its transposition into the MDPs (municipal master plans) with binding character, assigning new responsibilities and competences to municipalities; in the field of ownership, aiming at its identification for fire prevention and economic use purposes, launching the operation of the simplified register; in the field of forest cleaning, introducing important changes in forest protection standards against fires and deciding to create biomass centres for energy production and, more recently, biorefineries;... [[PSD Member Protests António Leitão Amaro.]] ... in other areas of prevention, by legislation on the rules for the use of controlled fire, increasing and re-equipment of forest slag teams and increasing their level of financial support. Two extraordinary Councils of Ministers were held, exclusively devoted to forest reform, which, I suppose, happened for the first time in the history of our democracy, and an extended discussion period was opened on the subject, for three months, to which the CDS and the PSD have been completely sidelined. [[That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The presentation of a motion of censure to the Government is, of course, a legitimate and constitutional right to which any parliamentary group may resort... [[Ah!... Thank you!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u165	... but, on this subject and at this moment, it is an absurd and unjustified political act: absurd because it occurs at the time when all political agents must be focused on supporting the victims and affected regions; unjustified either by the topic chosen or by the fact that they have been presented by the parliamentary group that less moral authority to invoke it in this Chamber. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I have some reason, for the functions I perform, to explain concrete facts about the actions and omissions in terms of forest policy of the responsibility of the previous Government and, in particular, the responsible for the motion of censure, which is, at the same time, the leader of the party promoting it. I do not need to list, some of them have already been mentioned here and the Portuguese know them well. If there is, therefore, in this House, a party that should refrain from bringing this issue to debate in this form and in the current context is precisely the CDS-PP. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government is currently humbly and decisively focused on rapidly and effectively addressing the victims of fires, on repairing damage and restoring normality in lives and businesses, and I believe that in recent days and in recent months it has given evidence of this. As is VV's knowledge. For example, the Government waited for the conclusions of the Independent Technical Commission and allocated a new extraordinary Council of Ministers, even before the occurrence of 15 October, precisely to extract consequences, correct errors and adopt decisions, with a view to reforming a whole fire prevention and control system. Much of these decisions follow closely the recommendations of the Independent Technical Commission, which have already been discussed here. The whole country, with special emphasis on the Assembly of the Republic, is now called upon to debate, complete and assist in realising them. Once again, the Government is available to dialogue with all and to all, seek the best solutions to return security feelings to the populations and prevent and reduce the incidence of rural fires. It is a matter of enormous national transcendence, which recommends a regime pact. The creation of an effective civil protection system, coupled with the realization of forest reform, on an acceptable horizon, is the best honour we can give to all those who have lost victims of fires, as well as the best sign and the best incentive for the future of all those who have not given up fighting for the recovery of their lives, their businesses and the vitality of their territories. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u166	For all these reasons and, above all, for the national interest, the Government believes that the House should reject this motion of censure. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u167	You have the floor, for an intervention to close the debate, before the vote on the motion of censure, Mr Telmo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u168	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at the end of this debate it became clear that this motion, more than anything that made sense, was inevitable. throughout the debate, the Prime Minister and the Government have never wanted to talk about what happened and much less assume their responsibilities. It was a debate which some did not want and which, from the first hour, sought to condition and devalue by all means.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u169	You're talking about the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u170	The first argument was that this matter was not a political issue. Strange argument, as you can see. Policy is, by definition, what deals with society, the community as a whole, the state. There is, therefore, no more political issue than the absolute failure of that same State. Between June 17 and today they died, victims of forest fires, 114 of our citizens. There were more than 500 000 hectares of burned-out areas, thousands of dead animals, torn-out economic activities, devastated families, without the State protecting them. And this is not political, sir. Ladies and gentlemen? It would only not be, if there were no State responsibilities. This is not only political as it is surely the first of the reasons why many of us, in all corners, have come to politics, to deal with the common thing, the justice and the protection of our own. That's why we came here. This is politics in the noblest sense she can have. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The image that was left was in a failed state and if this is not the basis of censorship, we ask again what would then be the basis of censorship. What happened, these unprecedented tragedies, was the result of exceptional weather circumstances, but not only and this leads us to the second question. Some have stated from the outset that, apart from these circumstances, any responsibility would always be a diffuse responsibility, to be distributed by all, as soon as possible, without anyone in particular to assume these responsibilities. For the supporters of the government and for the parties that support it, the only relevant discussion is the discussion of decades ago and the lack of forest planning. We have no problem in participating in this debate, nor in assuming, as we have done here, all our responsibilities. All of them! We all assumed! It is, moreover, curious that this commitment to bleach and dilute responsibilities comes from exactly where it comes from. As has been said here, the PS has ruled most of these last 25 years. It was the PS's biggest responsibility over time. Isn't that right, Prime Minister? Isn't that right in the area of civil protection? Isn't that right, Minister for Agriculture? You have responsibilities in this area at least since the year 95 of last century. No one has more responsibilities than you, in the area of agriculture and forests. [[Protests by the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs.]] And do not come here to say that it is not possible to present a motion of censure when the mourning begins because the Government has resigned a minister at the very beginning of this same mourning!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u171	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u172	In terms of politicism, Mr Minister, we were well understood, especially when you speak of the opposition parties. We've got a clear understanding of who's policing! [[PS protests.]] All that is structural, for you, is very relevant, but we do not accept the use of the last 20 years or the last 30 years, or even the next 10 years, to hide what has happened in the last four months. We do not accept that they want to use the distant past or a distant future to avoid facing the recent past of a government that has failed and deserves censorship. I do not even comment on the deep ridicule of those who in the past said that the guilt could never be of meteorology and now found out that apart from it, the fault is — imagine! — neoliberalism. It's pure and simply grotesque! You're right, sir. Members of the majority, this debate and this motion are essentially not about each party's forestry organization projects, and we have already presented, and we will continue to present, ours. This motion is about what happened this year and the incompetence of the Government of the Socialist Party, whose failures you here seek to cover up, disguise or ignore, by all means at your disposal. Whose opportunism is it, I ask? Oh, my God! Who, like us, demands responsibilities and consequences or who has failed and is unable to assume their responsibilities? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP applause.]] In addition to the structural reality, in addition to meteorology, what has failed was the government and, when failed, has left so many of our fellow citizens given to their lot. « Governing is predicting», Thompson said. We repeat here the question we asked Mrs. Minister of Internal Administration four months ago: with temperatures between 40 °C and 43 °C, which was an existing forecast for the country in those days before the Pedrogon events, how is it possible that the government did not anticipate the Charlie phase and did not have the pre-disposition of means to prevent what happened? And more: it failed what the government said was its main objective, which was an effective initial attack. There was no pre-disposition of means, the great concentration of means occurred only after the first deaths. I'm not the one who says it, it's the report of the Independent Technical Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u173	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u174	Those newly appointed by the government were neither prepared nor at the time of such a situation, it is also the report that says so, and even witnessed the caricature of, in the face of competition and a influx of politicians, political leaders ended up making decisions that could only be of operational commanders. But if the reports are conclusive in the failure to prevent and combat Pedrogão, even more surprising is that after that the government has failed again. How is it possible, after warning, after Pedrogon, that the Government has repeated the same mistakes that led to what happened on October 15th? That is why you did not want to speak during the debate. In the face of a summer that feared to continue, the government was warned by the firefighters and we ourselves asked why they did not prolong the Charlie phase. The government has heard none of this. Governance is to choose and the government has chosen nothing to do, and that is why it is also responsible for what happened. on this tragic weekend, there were fewer than 3300 men, there were 16 air vehicles, instead of the 48 that existed in the previous phase. That is why the whole country on that fateful day was what had been Pedrogão Grande four months earlier. How could the Government have ignored the IPMA's warning that that day would be the most dangerous and dangerous day of all the year on fires? He was warned and he failed in a loud way. this time, factories were burned, this time the destruction was greater, this time houses are burned. If this does not deserve censorship, I wonder what you could then Members and Members. Ladies and gentlemen, you must be censored in this country. This motion is the expression of this censorship and also of the indignation of many Portuguese, an outrage reinforced by the insensitivity with which the Government reacted to the tragedy. The Prime Minister may now come to tell us that he has failed to control his emotions, but what was in everyone's memory was a Prime Minister and a government that in the most difficult times this country has lived in many years has made statements that what they have revealed was insensitivity and even sovereignty. The recommendations of resilience, the warnings that everything could be repeated — to say no more of your phrases — showed irresponsibleness, if not even the attempt to "rock the water from the hood" over those who were only victims and were left to their fate. Only after calling the reason for the timely intervention of the President of the Republic, did the Prime Minister seek to amend his hand. Finally, four months later, there were resignations and the government came in in an effort to try to do everything that it had not done to turn the page. But, Prime Minister, so far there is an obvious question: why was what you then decided to do not done before? Why have they not resorted to the Armed Forces or to the protection bands or to everything they now announce, including the strengthening of means? Now, when we discuss here in this House, on the initiative of a party supporting the government, the question of SIRESP, who is opposed to what you are now proposing, which is the SIRESP of public control, not done?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u175	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u176	It's funny, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! It was the Socialist Party that opposed it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u177	Is that a CDS? What about the PSD?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u178	When the CDS and PSD here, opposition parties proposed a quick compensation mechanism for victims, who prevented this mechanism from being approved? Curiously, and once again, it was the PS. You did not even want to do what you have now been forced to assume, but, Prime Minister, I tell you that your bad conscience does not erase the dimension of your incompetence. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u179	Another argument on the part of the current majority is that this motion does not make sense because it would, they say, be a mere exercise of political tactics. On this subject, allow Mr Jerome de Sousa to quote you in the debate of a motion of censure of the Portuguese Communist Party in July 2012.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u180	I hope you quote it what it should be.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u181	Listen, honourable Member : « Who wants to reduce this debate and this motion to any political tactic does not know or perceive the dramatic situation in which the country and most Portuguese are located ». What's changed?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u182	Censorship motions have changed! He's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u183	The government. For those who like aphorisms, "by the mouth the fish dies", Mr. João Oliveira. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It is very curious that it was you who went up this rostrum to talk about exploiting tragedies. That's true, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, this motion is part of a tragedy and is precisely because of this tragedy and the state in which this motion is inevitable. We have tabled the motion, without failing to give consensus to anything that can respond to this tragedy. We want the reconstruction. We will not be like the Socialist Party, which denied the previous government an agreement on forests. That's true, sirs. Members, that this motion is not about cutting wages, it is not about the sacrifice of the younger, it is not about the Labour Code, it is not even about Iraq. This motion is about a tragedy that occurred in Portugal, in which 114 Portuguese died in the face of the collapse of the state and the failure of a government. That is what the government and the supporting parties want to hide. This motion is inevitable because the Government has ignored the warnings and was arrogant. Your arrogance seems to be, moreover, the result of who, having arrived at the government as it has arrived, thinks that, for that reason, everything can.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u184	How did we get here?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u185	Most will accept everything, everything will hide, even when it vocalizes criticism. [[Protests by PS Member Carlos César.]] Our failure in this matter was perhaps only that we did not shout loudly. This motion could have been submitted four months ago. I don't know if it would have been different. Today, the same majority as in 2008 and, above all, in 2009 refused censorship when a government took the country to bankruptcy is preparing to lead this motion. But don't be mistaken, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, your incompetence has been exposed. Infuriation is a great deal and fair. Do whatever you do in here, there's a country out there that doesn't forget. This government deserves censorship, this government has lost the country's confidence. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP, standing up, and the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u186	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to proceed to the voting stage, but first of all, we are going to check the quorum using the electronic system. I remember the ladies. Members who vote today by means of an electronic vote, since in the case of motions of censure we are obliged to use this means in accordance with Article 1 1 ( f ) 195. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic and Article 223 ( 2 ). Article 94 ( 4 ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. As we proceed to the electronic register, I would ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to take note of the file which, in the meantime, has entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u187	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the projects of lein.os 649 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Strengthen the social and labour protection of parents in a child's care framework with oncological disease ( NAP), 650 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recognizes and defines the figure of specialist for integration into the teaching body and teaching in the cycles of studies leading the degree of undergraduate in non-conventional therapies ( makes the second amendment to Law No 71 / 2013 of 2 September) ( BE) and 652 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Extends the transitional period for the assignment of a certificate for the professional exercise of non-conventional therapeutic activities to which it has completed its training after the entry into force of Law No 71 / 2013 of 2 September ( second amendment to Law No 71 / 2013 of 2 September) ( BE ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u188	We are therefore in a position to check the deliberation quorum. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic table records 227 presences to which 2 are added by the Members. Members of PS Maria Rosa Albernaz and José Miguel Medeiros, performing 229 Members present. [[Pause.]] There's a little problem. Because the PS has 86 Members, registered in the electronic table 85, it cannot be two Members who have not made the electronic register. Mr José Miguel Medeiros, perhaps, was able to register.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u189	I don't know anymore, Mr. President. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-24.u190	We're starting from the principle that it is. In any case, we have quorum to vote on motion of censure No 1 / XIII ( 3 ) — government failures in the 2017 tragic fires ( CDS-PP ). I remember the ladies. Members who, when they vote, have to stand up at the same time and press the button on their sense of vote. Let us therefore vote on the motion of censure. [[When put to the vote, he did not obtain the votes of the absolute majority of the members in effective office, with 122 votes against the PS, BE, PCP, The Greens and the PAN and 105 votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The motion was therefore rejected by 122 votes against PS, BE, PCP, The Greens and the PAN, and 105 votes against PSD and CDS-PP. [[P.S.P.'s applause, standing up.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. As you know, we will meet again only on Thursday 26th, at 3 p.m. with the following agenda : from point one, there is the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 569 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Establishs the responsibility of the employer for the compulsory training of workers in public functions and for the renewal of the qualifications essential for the performance of their functions by amending the General Law on Public Works, as annexed to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June ( PSD ) and 651 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Responsives the public employer for the costs arising from the vocational training and certification of the worker ( BE ). The joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 876 / XIII ( 2 ) follows in point 2. ( a ) — by valuing the teaching of the history of Portuguese emigration ( PS ), 877 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — by the creation of a national emigration museum ( PS ), 1083 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the establishment of a national documentation centre on Portuguese emigration ( PSD ) and 1096 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government improve the analysis and assessment of the situation of Portuguese migrants ( CDS-PP ). of point three is the general discussion of lein.os 241 / XIII projects ( 1. ( a ) — by extending the appropriations covered by the Salary Guarantee Fund ( BE ) and 646 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend rules for the operation and access to the Salary Guarantee Fund and strengthen workers'rights ( CFP ). in point four, draft resolution No 1065 / XIII ( 3 ) will be jointly considered. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement measures in the area of pediatric oncology, promoting greater support and protection for minors with cancer and their caregivers ( CDS-PP ), Bill No 649 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthen the social and labour protection of parents in a child's care framework with oncological disease ( NAP), in general, and draft resolutions Nos 1092 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to strengthen support for children and young people with cancer ( PSD ), 1094 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthening measures in the area of pediatric oncology and support for children and adolescents with cancer and their families ( PCP ), 1095 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement several measures aimed at the protection of children with cancer and their families/caregivers ( NAP) and 1097 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to support children and young people with cancer as well as their caregivers (BE). Finally, in point five, the projects of lein.o 561 / XIII ( 2 ) will be discussed together and generally. ( a ) — Sets the allocation scheme and the amounts of the increases in supplements and other compensation based on the provision of work under risk, penosity and insanity conditions ( sixth amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June— General Public Works Act) ( PCP ) and 589 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Sets the scheme for the allocation of compensation in addition to the remuneration supplements that are based on the provision of work under conditions of risk, penosity and insanity ( sixth amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June—General Public Works Act ) ( PCP ). Before closing the session, I thank everyone and inform you that tomorrow, the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization meets to hear, within the framework of the State Budget for 2018, the Minister of Finance and then the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 47 minutes.]]
