ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our session. [[It was 10 hours and 2 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. Let us start our agenda today, of which the discussion, in general, of Bill No 51 / XIII ( 2 ) is first of all. ( a ) — Change the regime for freezing and losing crime instruments and products in the European Union, transposing Directive 2014 / 42 / EU. To open the debate, I have the floor of the Minister of Justice, who I take advantage of to congratulate. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Combating crime effectively, especially organised crime, means today understanding the importance of, together with appropriate criminal frameworks, having mechanisms capable of depriving the agents of the proceeds that their illegal conduct generates. And it is in this context that this bill emerges. Its main purpose is to transpose into domestic legal order Directive No 2014 / 42 / EU, Parliament and the European Council, which imposes minimum rules on Member States for the loss of assets related to crimes and so-called freezing measures to ensure the availability of such goods until the loss decision is taken. In addition to the innovations imposed by accession to the Directive, some aspects of the substantive and procedural regime are improved in relation to the current loss at points which, not specifically resulting from that instrument, ensure greater alignment with it and at the same time greater coherence of the entire loss regime. in another perspective, and in accordance with the provisions of Law No 45 / 2011 of 24 June, which created the Office for the Recovery of Assets ( GRA ) and the Office of the Administration of Goods ( GAB ), an assessment was made of the initial years of operation of these cabinets, which revealed that the recovery of assets is proceeding properly but that in the administration of goods there are still difficulties at different levels. It was therefore understood that it would be appropriate to make a limited intervention here under Law No 45/2011 and aimed at key aspects of the regime, which would make it clear - especially in the area of the administration of goods, contributing to unlocking sources of difficulty. It is for this purpose that measures are also proposed in this segment to expedite procedures, to strengthen interinstitutional collaboration and to eliminate redundancy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u3	Mr José Silvano, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u4	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen: I should like to begin by categorically stating that this legislative initiative is of enormous importance to criminal investigation, because it clarifys the current definition of crime products in order to cover not only the direct product of criminal activity but also all its indirect gains, including the reinvestment or subsequent transformation of direct products. It is a proposal that introduces minimum rules common to the Member States in order to bring legal regimes closer to the freezing and loss of products and benefits generated by serious and organised crime, promoting mutual trust and increasingly effective cross-border cooperation, which does not prevent each Member State from having more extensive powers in its domestic law. Our legal arrangement already provides solutions that allow for a large part of the obligations under this Directive to be met, but the important thing is the adjustments to ensure full compliance with the other countries of the European Union. in this sense, the Government proposes legislative amendments to 11 legal diplomas: the Criminal Code, the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Code of the Building Registry, the Code of the Commercial Register, Law No 5 / 2002, Law No 34 / 2009, Law No 45 / 2011, Decree-Law No 54 / 1975, the General Regime of the Institutions of Credits and Financial Societies and Decree-Law No 164/2012. This bill also provides for the creation of an obligation to collect and communicate statistical data relating to the seizure and application of capital security measures in criminal proceedings, as well as the final destination of the goods covered by the law, by obliging the judicial authorities and criminal police bodies to the annual collection of these statistical data, which are communicated to the Office for the Recovery of Assets, subject to the dependence of the Judicial Police. Madam Minister, in the debate of the specialty, particular attention will be given to the system of loss of property and its compatibility with other legal diplomas under discussion still and which may not be transposed into this Directive. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u5	Mr Filipe Neto Brandão of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u6	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: With the proposed law now under consideration, we are talking about improving the instruments already available today to combat organised economic and financial crime. One reality that the Minister cannot fail to bear in mind is that the mobile phone of financial crime is precisely the acquisition of a capital advantage. This means that, in terms of criminal policies, the well-known "crime does not compensate" can not only mean that the practice of a crime will correspond to or may correspond to the loss of freedom, but for the crime not to compensate the system cannot allow the criminal to maintain the advantages obtained. He referred to the well-known criminalist, and today the Ombudsman, Prof. Faria Costa, in his study The phenomenon of Globalization and Economic Criminal Law: « It is necessary to admit, without transitions, that one is dealing with a type of crime determined by criteria of pure rationality of costs/benefits and nothing more affects the homo economicus, the man who reasoning only before the equation costs/benefits, when considering the crime, than the risk of losing his heritage ». And, the truth is true, in other words, and without having read the manuals of the most recent criminal doctrine, it was exactly this that Father Antonio Vieira, in the ages of 1600, taught us, when in the sermon of St. Anthony to the Fish, referring to the thieves converted by him, wrote "all, trembling, restored what they could (that this is what makes tremble more in this sin than in the others)." The widespread loss of goods is, therefore, recognised as an essential tool for the effectiveness of combating organised and economic and financial crime. And as it is clear from the explanatory statement of the proposal for a law — in fact, the previous Member mentioned it to me, and many authors also refer to it — we already have legal instruments, even thrown out of the comparative plan, but we do not normally or generally use them. It is therefore important for us to use them. And it is also worth remembering, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that asset recovery is already a priority of the legislator today—it is enough to remember the law that defines the objectives, priorities and guidelines of criminal policy for the 2015 / 2017 binomium, which expressly refers to it. Therefore, the directive we transpose today and the amendments it introduces aim to speed up and improve the regime of seizure and widespread loss of property, covering not only the direct product of criminal societies, but also the re-investment and subsequent transformation of property in the possession of third parties with the obviously respect for the principles of good faith and so many others that I abstain from, for a manifest lack of time. In conclusion, referring to the fact that, Mrs. Minister, in this media vertigo, today's bill has passed, it is worth the truth, reasonably...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u7	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u8	I'm done now, Mr. President. But, Madam Minister, I would like to say to you that we both know - and the Members who have dealt with this matter also know - that few laws will become as important as this in the way we organize ourselves as a society. It is a discreet but very relevant step towards combating economic and financial crime and building a healthier society. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u9	Mr Vania Dias da Silva, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Madam Minister, I would first of all like to congratulate you. Mr Minister, organised crime, increasingly transnational, in the globalized world in which we live, is obviously urgent to combat and, despite existing instruments and mechanisms, which are already robust in Portugal, are still insufficient, not only from the perspective of the criminal responsibility of the agents, but, above all, insufficient in the seizure, recovery and administration of seized goods. This issue is all the more important and the size of these organisations goes beyond borders, and a response is needed which requires the approximation of the legal frameworks and legal rules and international cooperation. Moreover, it is public that there are cases in which this same happens and that, due to various vicissitudes, due to lack of evidence, due to lack of approximation of legal rules and lack of exchange of information, there is some impunity in these issues, which sometimes prevails, so it is important to stop this phenomenon. And we hope that this legal framework will be more robust and effective in this area. However, and in spite of everything, Mrs Minister, this is a complex matter which involves several political actors, also involving the adaptation of domestic law into 11 legal diplomas, which is not, itself, surgical or suspicious. So I wanted to leave you here a strange one, Mrs. Minister. It is a habit—of course, a bad habit—that the government brings to this House legislation where it is mentioned that very diverse entities have been consulted and then not let us know what these same entities say. It is not by dismissing, I say again, the Members do not know what these entities say, because the matter is not so much. It is important to understand what these entities say. That was the question I was asking you, Minister: what did these entities say and what did they point out? What criticism did they make? What suggestions did they present? It is simply not something that seems very curial to us to pass blank checks to the government. Furthermore, Madam Minister, I would also like to tell you that the Asset Recovery Office and the Property Administration Office are entities that certainly have to exist—and there is good—but I want to leave you with a doubt: would it not be easier to join the two offices in one unit? Maybe it isn't, but I'd like to know why. In Spain, for example, there is only one unit and therefore I would like to understand why that would not be easier. Even because, in this case, there are sensitive data, which reveal the lives of people, and the defendants, despite being accused, also have rights and guarantees. It was therefore important to understand whether it would not be better to be a single entity dealing with these matters. Finally, Mr President, in closing, there are proposals for a regulation of the European Parliament and of the European Council, which are on the table and which deal exactly with this matter, in order to extend this scope further. What I would like to understand, Minister, is whether this legislation already has this in mind or whether there will be no future incompatibilities that will lead us again to try to change this legislation. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u11	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u12	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mrs. Members: As I do not have the eloquence of Father António Vieira in the sermon of St. Anthony to the Fish, already mentioned here today,... [[Laughing.]] ... I will limit myself to saying that, in fact, this matter is of the greatest relevance, it really has to do with the loss of instruments and proceeds of crime directly related to economic and financial crime, which, as we all know, is one of the most complex areas of crime in relation to its investigation and repression of this criminal phenomenon. in this respect, the pursuit of the money trail, the seizure and loss of the proceeds from this type of criminal activity is of the greatest importance. in this sense, everything about improving our legal order, adapting it even to the acquisitions that are being made in terms of cooperation with other countries, particularly within the framework of the European Union, is relevant. for our part, we are fully available to consider all the improvements that can be made in this area, so we very much welcome this bill and, of course, we hope that the work we are going to do here will actually result in something that will contribute positively to improving the mechanisms for combating economic and financial crime. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u13	Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Directive 2014 / 42 / EU, Parliament and Council, aims to standardise the legal regime of the Member States on freezing and on the loss of products and benefits generated by serious organised crime and economic or financial crime in particular. It is therefore a matter which, of course, for the Left Block Parliamentary Group is of the greatest importance and we therefore welcome this initiative to transpose this Community Directive into the Portuguese legal order. I would just like to leave two very brief notes, which will be considered later — I hope — in the work that we have come to do in this matter, which is, of course, a work that is always necessary to speed up and strengthen. The first note is as follows: as any directive, or as the generality of the directives, this standardization is created by creating minimum levelling patterns. This does not, therefore, prevent national legal orders, and in this particular case the Portuguese right, from establishing more advanced regimes to combat, by this way too, organised crime and the use of corruption of high sophistication and therefore the whole dimension of economic and financial crime. in fact, our Law No 5/2002 on combating economic and financial organised crime, from our point of view, needs — I think we all agree — to be constantly under scrutiny in order to continuously strengthen and align the content of that law with the change of profile and new modalities of economic and financial crime. Therefore, the first note I would like to leave is that, in accordance with the general meaning of this proposal to transpose the directive into the Portuguese legal order, we understand — and we believe there will be consensus between us — that there should be a reinforcement and an adjustment of the content of the legislation which is the new figure of economic and financial crime. The second note that I leave to deal with the fact that this proposal makes adjustments to the competence and tasks of the asset recovery office, which does not deserve us any kind of opposition, as is evident, but raises a question which is always present and which is the following: beyond the redefinitions of competences, a more accurate definition of competences, the Left Block believes it is necessary that, beyond the definition of competences, there are human means, there are technical means, there are technical means that allowed the new competences to be effectively brought into practice. Therefore, the appeal we leave is that this legislative initiative is accompanied by the allocation of all the means necessary for this re-arrangement of competences to be possible. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u15	Mr. Minister for Justice has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank all the positive contributions that have been made to this debate. I would also like to say that the Government has not limited itself to making here a transposition of the Directive in the sense of translation of what was coming from the Directive. There was indeed a concern to analyse the existing national legal framework in this area, in terms of loss of property and confiscation, and to seek this occasion to suit it, in order to strengthen it, by empowering, either from the normative point of view, or from the organisational point of view, the various entities involved here. I would also like to point out that, in relation to the issues relating to GRA and GAB, it is obvious that we will need organizational reinforcements. As for the problem of the organization, I would say this is not the time. And one thing needs to be realized: the GRA does capital and financial research alongside criminal investigation and the other body does management. The idea of joining together, of contaminating, let's say, the two functions may not be the best, but obviously it's something you can think about. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u17	Mrs. Members, at the end of this debate, we turn to the second item on the agenda, the assessment of draft resolution No 560 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the linkage of teachers hired in accordance with Directive 1999 / 70 / EC(E) together, in general, with Bill No 278 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Proposals for a scheme for the linkage of teachers in the career ( CFP ). For an intervention, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: over the last few decades, we have made the mistake, as a society, of normalizing the precariousness of teachers. It became normal to view teachers and teachers as real travelling cashiers who each year go from city to city, district to district, that every year they change from school as if their teaching life was synonymous with a nomadic life. Every year, teachers with 10 years of career, 15 years of service and up to 20 years of service, for 18 000 of these teachers hired August is not a sign of vacation, August is a sign of distress because they do not know the destination that September will bring them, because they do not know what the next city will be. All these hired teachers do exactly the same as the teachers in the picture, they dedicate themselves to their students and students like all others, but the truth is that their life is marked by instability, and this is the only difference in relation to the teachers in the picture. Although they are placed every year and despite every year we demand them, as a society, as a community, as officers and education officers, who work as hard as others, who give their best as others, we finally call them the transitional needs of the system. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of public school, which must be of quality and excellence, but for the sake of labour rights, we must stop, we must put an end to the idea of normalization of teaching precariousness. Education cannot be a work rights offshore. No profession has to be condemned, at first, to precariousness, much less that which brings to the hands the education of future generations. Therefore, this project that the Left Block brings here is a zero-tolerance project to teaching precariousness and, therefore, in fulfilling the European directive, we propose two things: an extraordinary link to end past injustices and a linkage mechanism that ends with the mistakes of the norm-work so that our future does not mean constantly being correcting past injustices. It is this mechanism that we propose, correcting the injustices of the mechanism that exists today, to say that in education, as in private, the three contracts must be the rule for the binding of teachers. In defense of a quality public school, we can't leave anyone behind, and that must also start by the teachers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u19	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The daily situation of our schools is marked by precariousness, a situation which has been substantially aggravated by the last PSD/CDS government with the change in the recruitment and mobility regime of basic and secondary teaching staff. in an attempt to normalize illegal recourse to precariousness, it pointed to the definition of permanent needs only at the end of five academic years of work, in full and successive annual hours. In addition to the climate of permanent confrontation with public school and its workers, the incentive to precariousness is one of the hallmarks of right-wing policy played by PSD and CDS. Parties who like little to remember the past of governance to conveniently try to hide the nightmare in which they have transformed the day-to-day workers and the people. And difficulties were inventing after difficulties so that teachers could link themselves to the career, being increasingly evident that mechanisms such as the so-called norm-work were unfair and arbitrary. The struggle of thousands of teachers has claimed the end of injustice and instability, from home to back, overcome by uncertainty about the future. in a context resulting from the expansion of compulsory education, in which it is discussed and intends to implement the reduction of the number of students per class, in which there is a pressing need for rejuvenation of the teaching body, it is clear that the public school needs more teachers to respond to the increase in requirements and needs. The PCP project, beyond the extraordinary binding processes currently under way, or that may exist at other times, concerns a just and appropriate solution to the situation of the hired teachers. We propose the opening of vacancies to the national competition by graduated list according to all the needs expressed by schools for full-time hours that occur for three consecutive years. We place the definition of the annual schedule as the one corresponding to a contract concluded by the end of the first period and ending 31 August of the same school year. In addition, we propose that the right term contracts concluded with the Ministry of Education may not exceed three years or 1095 days of service provided, ensuring that the teacher enters the career in the school year in which to reach this limit. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the future cannot go through instability and precariousness, whether in public school or wherever it may be. It is necessary to ensure that a permanent job corresponds to an effective link. It is necessary to turn the page and end with a policy that has brought so many negative impacts to our schools, degrading the organization of the educational system and the educational quality. Having a desire to find a response to this problem seriously, it will also correspond to the willingness of the CFP to debate and find a step-by-step solution that contributes constructively to giving a response to the link between teachers and the future. The PCP argues that professional, emotional and personal instability must be eliminated and that public school should be dignified as an instrument of social and cultural emancipation of our people and our country. It is therefore about the present and the future that we are talking about. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u21	Mr Pedro Alves has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The stability of the teaching body is recognized as one of the main factors of the success of an educational system. And for this stability, contrary to what has been systematically stated, much contributed to the Government of the PSD and the CDS and, I note, an effort for stability, for the appreciation of teachers, not in a time of ease, but rather in a period marked by an absolutely adverse situation of difficult recovery from the country of crisis and bankruptcy. It was not the left that tied more than 4000 teachers to the tables, but a PSD and CDS government; it was not the left, but a PSD and CDS government that improved and established new schemes for the initial and continuing training of teachers; It was not the left, but a PSD and CDS government that dealt with mobility issues with the justice and dignity that teachers deserve. And it seems not to be the left, but a government of the PSD and the CDS which, for the first time in decades, prevented teachers from being recruited successively and unlimitedly without ever accessing the tables. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, all this has been done in a time of emergency and of overcoming the difficulties left by the Socialist Party and the Government of José Socrates. So it does not stop being ironic from watching a real stage on the left, the same left that it seemed normal to have been opened only 100 vacancies in the paintings in 2016 when nothing prevented the opening of thousands. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u23	The same left that swallows impeded the worsening of the lack of operational assistants in schools this school year; the same left that here hits his chest, says he demands, but, in fact, enables a budget that clearly does not cover expenses with staff; the same left, which seems to have forgotten the defreezing of careers. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government finally approved yesterday in the Council of Ministers the new diploma of extraordinary binding for 2017, without having previously sent to the trade union structures the final proposal for public analysis. This after the Prime Minister said last Friday that negotiations were not over. Anyway, they're ways of being. What we know is that, unlike the expectations created by the Government and by the Prime Minister himself, in 2017, about 3000 teachers — less than 1000 teachers — will be bound by the PSD Government and the CDS — and future links will be studied. If we measure the studies for the lack of operational assistants, we are talking. We also know that the term-resolution contracts cannot exceed the limit of four years or three renewals and not the three years or 1095 days of service provided, as presented in the CFP proposal, or the limit of three successive contracts, provided for in the Labour Code, and provided in one or more disciplinary groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u24	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u25	I will finish, Mr. President. What we know is that the new diploma is responsible, as Mr. Minister of Education says, for teachers who do not accept schedules. What we know is that private and cooperative teachers who have served public education for two years will not be considered second-class teachers. We are watching in this House one more show on the left. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, take it! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u26	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In order to deal with the issue of hiring teachers it would be important to start by knowing the estimation of the permanent needs of teachers by grouping, providing for demography, retirements and changes resulting from curricular reform and even the reduction in the number of students by class, as recorded in the Government Programme. Is there this medium-term needs map? If so, why is it not known and why is it not from him that we define an informed discussion to know the real support and linkage capacity of teachers? [[PCP protests.]] We agree that it is better to have teachers in the board than to have teachers hired. Therefore, through the assistance programme, 4198 teachers, we linked more than 600 teachers than those who were linked between 2006 and 2010. Let's be clear: the teacher contest has as its first objective the goal of placing teachers who are needed and do not meet a demand agenda of trade unions without looking at the requirements.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u29	It is in the conciliation of the two interests, that of schools and work, that we must seek balance. Let us also be honest: if it were easy, we would not be having this debate today, because surely the Bloc and the PCP would have foreseen their claims in the decree which was published yesterday.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u30	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u31	Only with an exercise of humility on the part of the PCP and the Block is that I can understand these agendas today, one day after the decree amending the competition regime has been published. Only when there is public admission that it is not easy and that they have not achieved is that it makes sense to maintain this debate and these initiatives today. For example, the work standard, criticised by some parties and also by the Ombudsman, limited the entry into the tables to five annual, complete and successive contracts in the same recruitment group. however, today's proposals call for a limit of three years for access to the tables. apparently, the Decree-Law submitted by the current government only reduced one year and maintained the restriction of a single recruitment group. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, your claims have not been fully achieved. And why haven't they been achieved? Was it because the PS government was invaded by the same willingness to induce precariousness that you accused the former PSD/CDS government? Or is there even a budgetary restriction to which any government, and even that of you, must comply and which has surpassed the agreements signed with the CFP and the Block? Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PCP and the Bloc, the decree-law which was published yesterday is the result of the government solution that you have made possible. That is your decree, so they assume it. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u32	Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing today the linkage in the career of hired teachers. It is a good day for this debate because after several weeks of negotiation with the unions the government approved yesterday the diploma that gives a significant answer to that question. This diploma allows the extraordinary linkage of more than 3000 teachers only in the coming school year and, by improving the norm-work, will link, in the same contest, more than 400 teachers, an effect that will be extended in subsequent years. The next school year will be an internal competition year and there will also be improvements here, because there will be vacancies for the group and school tables, which has not been happening for a long time. This diploma is an important step in a process that continues. The Government has undertaken to analyse, every year, the possibility of new extraordinary links whenever they respond to permanent needs; it has undertaken to study, soon, another extraordinary link to specialized artistic music and dance teaching; and it has also committed itself to evaluating the creation of a Portuguese gestual recruitment group. The following should be emphasized: for the first time, in many years, we have an extraordinary model of linkage with clear and fair and equitable rules of application for all recruitment groups. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a very important step in combating teacher precariousness, based on the identification of permanent needs of the public school. The vacancies to be opened are determined on the basis of the existing annual and complete contracts and the placement of teachers in these vacancies is done respecting professional graduation. Some will say 'we wanted more', some have spoken of 10 000 teachers who would aspire to link. We ask: when we talk, and well, about the need for rejuvenation of the teaching class, how can we defend such a broad bond in a single moment that would block the refreshment of the public school for 10 or 15 years from now? We can't. Responsiblely, we can't. Finally, referring to the question of teachers from educational institutions with association contracts. The Government has decided that these teachers will be able to continue to compete on an equal footing with teachers of public education under a transitional standard which will last for two years. This solution is necessary to protect these workers, who, in many cases, will simply be victims of school owners who have chosen to fire teachers as a pure retaliation against the fair decisions of this government in relation to association contracts. For all this, the Socialist Party welcomes the approval of the diploma presented by the Government that regulates teacher competitions because it is an important step in combating teacher precariousness and in bringing fairer competitions. Now it is time to monitor and monitor the implementation of this diploma. Mrs. Members of the PSD and the CDS spoke about the difficulties your government has had, but I remember that you have chosen education as the area in which you cut more than the Memorandum of Understanding requires. So be ashamed and don't tell lies! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u34	Be serious! [[At the moment, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]] [[Continued PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u35	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for creating conditions for the next speaker to be able to use the floor. For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would remind Mr Pedro Alves of the PSD that the previous government has actually deployed 25,000 teachers. So he came to talk about the binding of 4000 but still has a negative balance of 21 000. We can't stop remembering this. [[PSD protests.]] More: PSD and CDS have devalued the result of the struggle of many thousands of teachers for which we are here today giving voice. This is the issue, and we do not devalue it. If the CDS is concerned about the positions of the PCP, I mean, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, that the PCP is really very concerned about the lives of many thousands of teachers. That is the question that moves us. [[PSD protests.]] There are many problems on the table that need to be solved, there is a struggle that has been developed by teachers, there is the proposal of the PCP. In fact, efforts must be made further and the linkage of these teachers should be promoted.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u37	He's making a show!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u38	The question of the need for rejuvenation of the teaching body, a matter which has already been discussed here, cannot be resolved the tow of the attack on workers' rights and establishing more precariousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u39	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u40	I will finish, Mr. President. The solution goes through improving conditions of access to retirement and relief from the educational burden of teachers who are already quite old. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u41	For an intervention, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD and CDS, as has already been said, have been responsible for the dismissal of almost 30,000 teachers. And when they were forced to transpose a directive that required a limit of contracts, which made it binding, they transposed it with criteria that knew they would limit the number of teachers linked and created a scholarship to hire schools so that there would be even more injustice in the definition of teachers who could compete with these vacancies. [[PSD protests.]] This government has a linkage project that, in extraordinary linkage and in the ECB ( school contract stock exchange ) allows to link around 3600 teachers. What we have to say is that these more than 3000 teachers are going to be exactly where they deserve to be, which is linked to schools, linked to the teaching area frameworks. The challenge that exists is to bind all the others that need to be bound, and that is where the Left Block will not rest. The Left Block will not rest as far as the need to arrive for the new extraordinary linkage regimes to link those who are missing. The Left Block will not rest until it has a fair norm-work, with a limit of three contracts and a full, annual time-definition and various recruitment groups, which will enable it to link those who have to be linked.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u43	Thank you for finishing up, Mrs Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u44	I will finish, Mr. President. The PSD and CDS are against the bill that is under discussion because, being more fair than theirs, is insufficient and are against the draft resolution of the Left Block because it is excessive. We have come to the conclusion that the only thing that PSD and CDS are in favour of is indeed precariousness. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u45	Mrs. Members, at the end of this debate, the general discussion of Bill No 388 / XIII ( 2 ) follows. ( a ) — Removal of the portarium which increased the tax on petroleum products ( CDS-PP ). To present the diploma, Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In February 2016, before a historically low and transitionally low oil price, the Government decided to increase the tax on petroleum products by 6 cents. Instead of compensating families and businesses for the high prices of fuels that had occurred in the past and instead of giving a strike to families and businesses, the government has chosen to overburden its budgets by reducing the available income and the ability to invest in the economy. For this reason, the CDS reported this increase and has always been against this tax burden. If, today, the Portuguese are paying more when they are going to supply a gas pump, this is due to a wrong option by the Socialist Party, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block, which have plunged our proposals to eliminate this increase. This increase in taxes weighs on families who need the car in their daily lives. This increase in taxes weighs on public transport, which will increase by 1, 5 %, well above inflation last year. This increase in taxes also affects companies that need to deliver their goods, receive their raw materials and transport their workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u47	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u48	It happens that the price of oil is no longer low. Today, compared to January 2016, gasoline costs 18 cents per litre and diesel costs 23 cents per litre. For a Portuguese who tests your car with 50 liters of gas oil, the invoice is 12 € more expensive than a year ago. This has contributed to the rise in the price of oil, but has also contributed to the rise in the tax burden on fuels, which is now one of the highest in Europe. In each litre of gas oil, 56 % correspond to taxes and, in each litre of gasoline, 63 % of its price goes directly to the Ministry of Finance's safe deposit boxes. Unfortunately, the prospects for increasing the price of oil do not remain here. The forecast, along 2017, is rising, which will weigh a lot in the Portuguese pocket. In February 2016, when the government presented this increase it was justified by saying that it did so with a fiscal neutrality perspective, i.e. that it increased the ISP to take out the taxpayers what it was losing in VAT revenue. It happens that, with this increase, today, compared to last year, in ISP and VAT, Portuguese are paying more 9 cents/litre in gasoline and 14 cents/litre in gasoline. of the 12 euros that are being paid more to claim a deposit 7, 5 euros are taxed. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The fiscal neutrality announced by the Government is no longer the case.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u50	The fiscal neutrality which Members of the Socialist Party have sworn that it would apply no longer exists. Word given, word failed!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u51	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u52	in the ISP increasing port, the government established a reference value on what was charged 88 cents/litre in gasoline and 61 cents/litre in gasoline. Today the tax is about 93 cents/litre in gasoline and 70 cents/litre gas, i.e. plus 5 cents in the reference price in gasoline and plus 9 cents in the gas oil. Now this can end here today in this Parliament. It depends only on the votes of the Socialist Party, the PCP, the Left Block and the Greens. It's in your hands right now. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u53	You have the floor on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Testa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : During 2016, the Government fulfilled its commitment to review quarterly — in May, August and November — the value of the ISP based on the change in the base price of petroleum products, following the change introduced in February 2016. The assumption of this commitment was that of fiscal neutrality, in which the increase in the price of fuels raises the VAT revenue that is charged. The result of these revisions, both the price of gas oil and the price of gasoline, ended up being revised downwards. Also in 2016, first as a pilot model in four border regions and now in 2017, extended throughout the country, the government created the professional gas oil regime, which introduced a competitive tax regime against practice in Spain. thus, the conditions for international freight transport undertakings are balanced. This innovation has resulted in a significant price reduction representing a loss, although mitigated by increased consumption and tax revenues. For the total sales of professional gas oil, they have recorded a significant increase, confirming the effectiveness of the measure taken at the time of their establishment. In 2017, with the entry into force of the State budget, the Government decided to maintain the limits of compulsory incorporation of biofuels currently in 7, 5 %, thus avoiding the increase in the value of fuels. What's curious is that it's the CDS that's coming to propose the elimination of this door. Well, the CDS was present in a government in which a famous green tax measure was raised. Mr Moreira da Silva asked at that time how does he explain that the decline in the price of oil is far from reflected in consumer prices? He replied: "We have created ENMC (National Fuel Market Entity) to provide technical assistance to the assessment made by the Competition Authority". This was the only answer that the minister found to be able to say that there was no impact of the decline in the price of fuel on the consumer, i.e. what was of interest at that time, only and exclusively, was to collect tax revenue. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u55	And more: the President of Galp, Manuel Ferreira de Oliveira, on 27 October 2014, said : « Green taxation increases gas oil by 5 cents and gasoline by 6, 5 cents / litre ».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u56	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u57	The only objective of green taxation, after all, returned all these years, was to introduce plastic bags, some different from the others that existed in the past. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u58	The Bureau does not record any entries, so we move on to the next item in our agenda, with no expressions of willingness to register. [[Pause.]] In the meantime, Mrs Margarida Balseiro Lopes, from the PSD, was registered to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD Parliamentary Group naturally welcomes this initiative of the CDS to eliminate the door that has increased the ISP. We remember, in fact, this great increase in February 2016, in the midst of the budgetary debate when it was said that there would be supposed fiscal neutrality. As the fuels were cheaper, it was necessary to collect the same level of tax revenue, but with the promise to review the ISP, I lower it whenever the fuels increased. A year later, we know this didn't happen. But more than that, whenever a Portuguese, whenever a family, whenever a company goes to a fuel pump it knows that for a 60-litre deposit, it pays 9 €, if it is gasoline, and 12 €, if it is gas oil. These successive increases in ISP are indeed a standard because, by giving some of what is direct taxes, indirect taxes are greatly increased, as if anyone in this case had a car was rich, as if the increase in these indirect taxes had no negative impact on families and businesses and, in the case of businesses, did not seriously affect their competitiveness. And more: these are highly regressive and socially unjust increases, because they penalize to the same extent an unemployed or a millionaire, who pay to the same extent the increase in tax. in reality, the only purpose these increases have been to help compose the budget implementation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u60	But there is more: by 2017 we saw the seedlings claim that they slightly increased the ISP of the gas oil and decreased that of the gasoline. However, they forgot to add that 80 % of consumption is gas oil, that is, what we have seen is that there will be an increase to 80 % of consumers in Portugal. Finally, we welcome this initiative of the CDS-PP but we look forward with much anticipation to the sense of vote of those who in the past have strongly criticized the increase in indirect taxes and the increase in ISP. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u61	Mr Bruno Dias has the floor on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS, the other day, took the car, went to the gas pump to supply and discovered this reality that the Portuguese know well and that the PCP identifies and for which it has been alerted for a long time: the cost of fuel and its impact on the lives of families and businesses.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u63	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u64	This CDS, which now wants to revoke portfolios on the ISP, outraged by increases when the price was low, is the same CDS which, in the Government and in the House, with the PSD, approved legislation that has continuously increased taxes at a time of historically high prices.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u65	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u66	As we stated in the debate the other day, in the previous episode of this CDS farce, we are facing a « number » brought by someone who appears with the attested deposit of demagogy and political hypocrisy. [[CDS-PP protests.]] One thing is to demand the correct application of the existing mechanisms that determine tax relief for high-priced fuels; another thing is a little serious proposal that no longer aims but to whiten the unfortunate past of those who have sacrificed the lives of the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u67	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u68	We would like to recall here that a proposal from the CFP was adopted in the Assembly of the Republic to extend tax support for more favourable fuel prices, in particular the productive sectors and the transport sector. Moreover, these proposals were adopted in the Assembly of the Republic, they are in the Journal of the Assembly of the Republic and what matters is to realize them as soon as possible because they have a significant impact on the real economy and on micro and small and medium-sized enterprises. We would also like to remember that we could have gone further with regard to savings in fuel costs, particularly in the incorporation of biofuels, that the CFP proposed that we should go further, that which has been piped - in fact, the CDS also voted against - but that it was another measure that could have contributed was not, I repeat, the vote against the CSD, and not long ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u69	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u70	Finally, it is curious that the CDS, which speaks both of the final prices and of the ISP, never talks about the profits of the petroleum sector, because the oil companies were certainly the ones most benefited from the crisis and the sacrifices of the populations and of the micro and small and medium-sized enterprises, of course, given the total lack of control over the prices of the fuels in our country. The profits of Galp, between 2013 and 2015, more than doubled, from 310 million to 639 million euros, and the vast majority of dividends were handed over to the shareholders of Galp, who, to avoid any variation, fled to the payment of taxes in Portugal through companies based in the Netherlands. This is the result of privatization and liberalisation policies. Therefore, we reaffirm that it is politically significant that these parties continue to systematically ignore this reality to which they have contributed decisively with the policies they have taken over the years, because what happens is that the economic groups, which have achieved millions of profits with the sacrifices of the people, continue to remain inconceivable in the political debate and in the demagogy that these parties, such as the CDS, once again, bring to the Assembly of the Republic. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u71	Mr Heitor Sousa, of the BE Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This issue raised by the members of the CDS, particularly by Pedro Mota Soares, is proof that the CDS is a party that has some problem with memory, especially with the memory of its government action, because on this matter it has already been possible to demonstrate here in the House what is truly its tax policy on fuels. Indeed, Mr Pedro Mota Soares is insurgent against the increase in ISP, but it is forgotten that, three years ago, his Government has adopted a set of rules, supposedly framed in the field of green taxation, whose practical effect was only the increase in the price of fuels substantially in the same proportion that now happens at the flexible rate that this Government introduced to the ISP, in a context where we witnessed an effective decrease in the price of oil in international markets. I remember that green taxation was introduced in a completely different context, which was a great increase in the price of oil, and in this case the effect was exactly what you now intend to invoke as a reason enough to eliminate the overtax: an increase in prices on fuel consumption. It's just the difference between you and me. Members of the CDS now invoke that the argument is not that of defending public transport, but above all it is the increase that this implies in the use of individual transport, therefore the overcost that this implies in individual transport. It is precisely in this area that we have a fundamental disagreement with the honourable Members. Members of the CDS and Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes of the PSD, which is as follows : the possible increase in the price of fuels should always be used to promote a policy of defence of public transport, in particular with the introduction of measures that favour the use of public transport, both at the passenger level and at the level of goods. Thus, in this respect, the Left Block has consistently argued that the path of the introduction of professional gas oil for the transport of goods not only at international but also at national level, and also the introduction of professional gas oil in the public passenger transport service.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u73	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u74	So, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the CDS and PSD, our opposition to your project has to do with the alternative of sustainability and mobility that we defend for the country, particularly for the public transport of passengers and goods. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u75	Mr Pedro Mota Soares, from the CDS, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this debate, Mr President, it is necessary to explain to some banks what is fiscal neutrality. Tax neutrality is to ensure that the State does not charge more than what it charged a year ago; fiscal neutrality was what happened when fuel was raised with green taxation to reduce in the IRS; fiscal neutrality is to ensure that the State, in ISP and VAT, does not receive more than it received one year ago. at this moment, what is happening is not fiscal neutrality. at this moment, what is happening is that the state is taking more Portuguese in ISP and VAT than it has been a year ago. It's not neutrality is tax draw,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u77	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u78	...it is not neutrality is much to increase tax revenue at the expense of the Portuguese pockets! Mr President, there has also been a lot of talk in this debate about hypocrisy and memory. Let's see, at least in an hour, how is the hypocrisy of the Left Block, the Communist Party and the Greens when they vote for this diploma. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u79	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u80	Of course, when gasoline is 10 cents more expensive, who talks about an alleged increase we can expect everything.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u81	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u82	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u83	But today we will understand the memory that the Left Block, the Communist Party and the Greens are building with their vote. If you vote against this diploma, your mask will fall completely. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u84	Mr President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u85	What's the reason, sir?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u86	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, in particular on the discussion of this diploma.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u87	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u88	Mr President, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group would like to ask whether the Bureau has put the circumstances of this diploma in violation of the labour law and, on the other hand, we also have doubts that a bill may change a portal. We would like to know the opinion of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u89	Mr President, the Bureau followed a stabilized agenda, which was defined and consensualized at the Conference of Leaders yesterday even announced. There was no obstacle on the part of any parliamentary group to this order of business, and the Bureau is, of course, limited to fulfilling what the Conference of Leaders itself has determined in this respect. Here's the answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u90	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u91	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u92	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u93	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u94	Mr President, of course, by supporting Mr President's interpretation, there is something we cannot but say here today. The Socialist Party, when it made this inquiry, clearly showed that it does not believe that there is neutrality because, in fact, if we take this step, if there is neutrality, there is no budgetary effect.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u95	Mr President, this is not an appeal to the Bureau. I am sorry, I understand the intention, but it is not an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u96	So the mask of the Socialist Party fell. With this explanation, he admits that at the moment more money is being collected than the one that was planned. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u97	Mr President, I am sorry that this was not an appeal to the Bureau. I would like to thank you, on behalf of the Bureau, and of course I would like to give the floor to Mr João Oliveira, who has asked you to do so in the meantime — for the proper conduct of the work that we use the regiment figures as they should be used. Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u98	Mr President, I assure you that I will make a genuine request to the Bureau. We do not hope that the CDS will now learn to comply with the Constitution, which it has never fulfilled, but we signal. Nor will I question the Bureau about the admissibility of the project, since it has already been admitted and discussed. However, Mr President, it is clear that this project, especially when it comes to Article 3. it determines the entry into force on the day following its publication, reducing the tax revenue in the current year, of course means a breach of the norm-work which is provided for in the Constitution. [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u99	Mr President, we are not going into this debate now, I am sorry. It should have been done at the time of the debate of the project itself. So this whole debate is now going too far. Mrs. Members, we have thus concluded the third point of our order of business, the general discussion of Bill No. 388 / XIII ( 2. ( a). We move on to the next point, which is part of the joint discussion of draft resolutions 171 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Determines the maintenance of the New Bank in the public sphere, ensuring its ownership and public management at the service of the interests of the people and the country ( PCP ) and 641 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by maintaining the ownership of the New Bank in the public sphere ( BE ). Mr Miguel Tiago of the CFP, for an intervention, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP has scheduled the debate on this draft resolution because it is necessary to solve a problem created by the PSD/CDS government. It is necessary to solve a problem created with the resolution of BES, which has left out the GES ( Groupe Espírito Santo ), leaving out the wealth of the Group, of the great shareholders, of the members of the family, and implies a public effort of more than EUR 4 billion, which has caused costs and deteriorated the financing of health, education, culture and other social functions of the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u101	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u102	A measure that was accompanied by the lies of the PSD / CDS government, which, as we all remember, then stated, together with the Banco de Portugal, that there would not be a single cost for the Portuguese, that there would be no cost for the State budget and that the whole operation would be paid by the bank and the money would be returned when the New Bank was sold, which was the bank resulting from the BES resolution. The BES resolution created the New Bank, also created the problem of BSE injuries and created a hole in the public accounts of EUR 4 billion. The Portuguese run, as the CFP has always said at this time, the serious risk that the New Bank and BES will become one more case of cleaning the bank paid by the State budget, i.e. the State intervenes with the money of the Portuguese, socializing the losses, and then hand over, the Bank already clean, to any other private group that in the long term will most likely end up doing exactly the same as the previous one, and probably the same parties will defend that the State will once again pay the losses of the bankers' adventures again. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u103	The New Bank needs Portugal. The New Bank, for its role in the national banking fabric, but also in budgetary matters, is needed for Portugal. On the one hand, the delivery of the New Bank to private groups will represent the delivery of more than 60 % of banking capital to foreign groups. in an economy like portuguese this certainly represents the loss of another very important lever of the economy and the prostration of the portuguese economy at the will of the large foreign economic groups. The New Bank and its maintenance in the public sphere, as the CFP proposes, however, is not just a matter of balance between what we have already paid and what needs to be reopened. The New Bank was paid by the Portuguese and can come to represent the capacity of the Portuguese and the State intervene in the economy through this powerful instrument, as it guarantees funding for small and medium-sized enterprises and consumption, which is also so necessary in the Portuguese economy. The Portuguese have already paid for the New Bank and the worst that can happen now is to stay without it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u104	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u105	The proposal of the CFP to maintain the New Bank in the public sphere is accompanied by a set of guidelines presented in the draft resolution. That the Government should, together with the authorities, assess the balance sheet and what it should and should not be integrated into a public institution that will integrate the banking system, so that, this time, the Portuguese will not pay the institution's losses, while at the same time guiding the institution for financing the economy and for the country's real needs. What the CFP proposes is that if the Portuguese paid the New Bank, at least they will stay with it. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u106	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, before giving the floor to Mrs Mariana Mortágua, I wanted to make an appeal that there were more calm and calm conditions in the Chamber so that we can all hear the various speeches. You have the floor, for an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u107	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A country that takes seriously is a country that does not sell. It is a country that does not abdicate to control the sectors that are decisive for its future, for its sovereignty and in which it has invested, over decades, money that is from all and from all Portuguese, those who have lived here in the past, who live in the present and who will live in the future. A State that takes itself seriously, is a State that does not serve to manage business with public services, is a State that does not serve to guarantee income to private and is a State that does not serve to dispose of assets for which it has paid, which are its own, state, and which will now sell for tuta and half. This, sirs. Members, concerning EDP, concerns REN, concerns Galp, which are monopolies that were public and are now private, that give millions to their private shareholders, or then that are public but from other states. This concerns the private CTTs who have degraded the service, who have worsened the results but keep the distribution of dividends, crushing the one that has already been a large public company and which today is a company in degradation, and concerning fidelity, the insurer of the General Deposit Box that gave profit and that Sergio Monteiro sold to Fosun and that it was a nice business. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u108	Fosun borrowed from Fidelity the money with which he bought loyalty, and the General Deposit Box guaranteed loyalty, which is now from Fosun, the exclusive sale of his products at discount, the loss of the General Deposit Box. Nice business you did the former Secretary of State Sergio Monteiro! Mrs. Members, Portugal has been sold the balance, Portugal has been delaparated from its resources and today we pay very much the price of these past choices, we pay very much the "business of China" and it is not possible to continue insisting on the mistake. If there is a sector where we have already spent too much public money, it is the bank. So far the rule has been to save banks from bad private management, clean them with public money and then — imagine! — pay to return them to private management. Only BPN, added to BANIF, has already cost us more than a National Health Service. The Portuguese state has behaved like a mother or father of a rich and arrogant boy and that has to end. If the bank cannot fail, if the bank has the power to create currency and, therefore, can lead the destinations of the economy, if the bank has the power to create economic and financial crises, if the bank has the power to destroy the economy and uses that power to threaten the regulator and threaten the public power, then there is no reason for all that power to be delivered to foreign private capital which has nothing to do with the country and is not interested in the future of the country, in the future of the economy or in the future of the Portuguese population. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Portugal cannot have almost 70 % of its banking system in the hands of foreign capital. One day we will pay very expensive, very expensive, the price of the choices we have now made and so the Left Block has come to propose to the Assembly of the Republic that not only the New Bank is not delivered to private capitals such as the Portuguese State and the Assembly of the Republic can have a debate on what is the public banking service. What do the banks do for? They certainly serve to be at the service of the economy and not to put the economy and democracy at the service of it. [[BE Applause]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u109	Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In order to do this debate, the debate around the solution for the New Bank has to be done with real assumptions. I believe that we have often had this debate with false assumptions. The first false assumption I have heard from the PCP and the Block to exhaustion is this: if we have already paid the Bank, then why don't we stay with it? And for this assumption to be true, it is necessary that the honourable Members. Members are in a position today to ensure that there will no longer be a burden on taxpayers to the New Bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u111	Explain there, but that's where the millions of them went!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u112	It's the ladies. Members in a position to ensure that if the New Bank stays in the public sphere, will it not require an injection of, at best, 750 million euros or 1000 million euros?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u113	What a waste!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u114	It is, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, to behave like a rich and arrogant boy is to say: "We keep this and we don't want to know how much the Portuguese will have to pay". This is a rich and arrogant boy's behavior! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u115	They've already put the diner in there!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u116	What a waste!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u117	Is this guarantee that you, as parties of the government that are now, will have to give here: if the New Bank stays in the public sphere, it costs more or not more money, at the best of the assumptions between 750 and 1000 million euros? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u118	What if it's sold? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u119	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the history of nationalizations, which you all defend, let us remember the BPN, that today, after 10 years, you still have no closed account.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u120	I think that has more to do with this bench than with this one!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u121	According to the assumption that it is false: if these banks were public, none of this would have happened. What do I ask, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, is the following: will you also ensure that no recapitalisation is needed for the General Deposit Box? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u122	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u123	If, after all, when the bank is public, everything works in perfection and no more money is needed, then what is going on in the General Deposit Box? Oh, my God! We want two, three « General Deposit Boxes»? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u124	Crap!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u125	You cheaters, they're cheating on your electorate! They're salesmen! by the power they sold themselves!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u126	Thirdly, it is now that this bank will operate in support of the economy. Mr. Members, then, who now support the government and cannot do this with the General Deposit Box, what is the point is that they want another bank, with another network of agencies on top of them, to do what they have always been defending to be done with the General Deposit Box and that now, which are government, they do not do? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u127	And you never did!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u128	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The decisions of several governments to privatize the financial sector was an excellent business to fatten the fortunes of a few, but represented large losses accumulated for the State and for Portuguese families. Let us see the results of these privatisations: millionaire transfers of money from the productive sector to financial speculation; channelling money from depositors to lending to companies of the banking groups themselves, often without any guarantee of return; and finally the distribution of large sums in dividends by their shareholders. We're talking about a lot of money, it's a lot of millions that needed our economy and that no one knows where they stand today. We don't know where they stand, but we know they're not where they need them, that is, in the productive sector. The Greens believe that it is time to interrupt the field of financial speculation, direct resources to our economy, to invest in our production, to create wealth and jobs. It is time that the bank no longer constitutes an activity that only serves to fatten the profits of a few and to become at the service of the country and its development, to enhance the fight against regional asymmetries and to be a constructive element of social justice. But this is only possible with the strengthening and recovery of public control of the bank. A reinforcement and a recovery that we believe should also pass through the New Bank. The Greens therefore advocate the maintenance of the New Bank in the public sphere. Public control is required of the New Bank, through the State, but a control that cannot be seen as transitory, temporary or provisional, as some argue, because this would literally prevent the New Bank from placing in the service of the public interest and the interests of the country, since the objective would be to clean it up and, when it was ready to make profits, it would give itself to the private for half a dozen coughs. However, this cannot be, the State cannot continue to defend the blows of the bankers and the Portuguese have an obligation to continue working for the banks. The State cannot only be called when things go wrong, take the risk, bear the costs of treatment and then hand the banks back to the private to pay for the profits. It can't be! For a culture of democratic responsibility, we must counter this state tendency to continue to be the mule of the bankers. That's enough! Therefore, in a few words, what is currently under discussion is whether the banks intend to place the New Bank in service to the interests of the country or whether they prefer to place the State to pay the cleaning bill to, after cleaning up with public money, hand over the New Bank to the private to help them in the fattening of fabulous profits.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u130	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u131	For us, we believe that the New Bank should be at the service of the public interest, of our economy and of the development of the country. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u132	Now Mr. João Galamba has the floor of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The New Bank was set up on 3 August following a resolution process which divided the old BES, allegedly, into a good bank and a bad bank. on that day, EUR 4900 million of capital was injected into the New Bank. We were told that the New Bank was clean, would be profitable and the sale would be a fast and profitable process for the State. Next, the New Bank's capital was further increased by EUR 800 million with the transfer of the Oak Finance loan from the New Bank to the former BES. A new increase in capital, that is, apparently the initial capitalisation, contrary to what they said PSD and CDS, was not enough. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u134	And it wasn't enough, why? Because the Banco de Portugal has asked for more capital to the PSD / CDS government and the PSD / CDS government has refused. And why did he do it? Because it could not tolerate a deficit in 2014 above 7, 4 %, as it ended up. Therefore, for political reasons, they subcapitalized the Bank, weakening it and leaving charges for the future. Following this capital increase of EUR 800 million, a new capital increase came at the end of 2015 with serious costs for the country's financial stability. at the end of 2015 the Banco de Portugal transferred EUR 2000 million of senior bonds from the New Bank to the former BES and thereby violating the peer and step rule, the equal treatment of investors, exposes the country to very serious financial risks, which caused the public debt to rise. Just look at what happened to public debt interest in January, immediately following this transfer of obligations, to confirm that.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u135	Who was in the government? Oh, my God! Who was the government? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u136	at the end of two years, after PSD and CDS assured us that we were in front of a robust, profitable bank and that it would allow an early sale, more than €6900 million of capital later, see that the New Bank's sales process is a difficult process. During this process, PCP and Block propose the nationalization of the New Bank, not as a proposal for appeal but as an alternative to the negotiation process. The Socialist Party does not follow the Left Block and the PCP on this proposal and I will explain why. We believe that allowing the negotiation process to proceed to the end is what best protects the state's heritage interest and the interest of taxpayers. And why? Because it is, moreover, the only possibility, if this is the choice, to nationalize the Bank, if everything fails. This is a transitional bank and European rules say that a transitional bank is to be sold. The Socialist Party, unlike the PSD and the CDS, does not view nationalization as an absolute evil, views it as a remedy if negotiation fails. The best way to ensure the viability of nationalization, if that is the option, is to let this process finish and realize that nationalization becomes an option because sale is not possible. The Socialist Party wants to leave all options open, precisely because it understands that this is the best way to defend the interests of taxpayers. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u137	We have no principled position against nationalisation and we have no principled position against sale.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u138	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u139	We hope that the sale will allow us to understand the real proposals and then, yes, make a decision. This is, in our view, the only way to defend the interests of the State and the interests of taxpayers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u140	Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This whole process of the New Bank, but also of the General Deposit Box and Banif, shows the light manner in which the Government has dealt with the affairs of the financial system. You don't know what you want, every day, government members say something and socialist leaders say the opposite. The confusion is great and, unfortunately, we will all end up paying. On these proposals in particular, we will be clear: the Social Democratic Party is, in principle, against nationalization.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u142	In principle! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u143	We know that this is an ideological option of others, Saudiers of past models, in which, perhaps, it should not be just the bank to be nationalized, but public transport, the media bodies, the restoration, the hotel, the cements, God knows everything! This would be the perfect paradise of virtually non-existent democracies in Asia. [[PCP protests.]] But let's look at the recent public management of some banks. And, as for the General Deposit Box, what has happened and the need for recapitalization kill the arguments of kindness of public management vis-à-vis private management.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u144	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u145	But we have another argument, because there are those who say that this can be a necessary measure, it can be an urgent measure at some point. And we all remember the famous BPN,... [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u146	Sell at any cost! Good! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u147	... for which it was promised by a socialist government that it would have no cost to taxpayers. More than 5000 million after taxpayers' money has been put into the BPN, with public management, month by month, to degrade the value of BPN, we ask whether that is what they want, if that is what they defend for the New Bank, knowing that the size of the problem they want to bring to the state is much greater than what happened to BPN. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u148	So let us be clear: we are, in principle, against nationalization and we must mention and repeat that this nonsense and the loss of value that has come to pass is the responsibility of the leaders of the Socialist Party and the Government. [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] When it is said to defend an alienation, one cannot wish to alienate and, at the same time, leaders and leaders of the Government and the Socialist Party make statements, as they have already done this morning, which ultimately degrade the value of the heritage that they want to sell. If we want to alienate, we cannot be systematically degrading, questioning the quality of the asset that we want to sell. This is only evidence of complete disorientation and lightness as, unfortunately, the Socialist Party and the Government treat the country and the financial system. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u149	You now have the floor to Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that, after discussing these draft resolutions, we will continue without being able to answer the great incognita, which is this: after all, what does the government want? It is, of course, that no one wants to sell the New Bank at any price and in any way,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u151	PSD says you want it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u152	... but it is important to know what you want, that is, whether you prefer to sell or whether you prefer it to remain in the public sphere, because, apparently, and it seems to me that this is obvious, PCP and Left Block feel that you should not try to sell, at all, that you should opt for nationalization. The idea that there is no principled position and that it does both sell and nationalize is a little strange.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u153	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u154	Of course, Mr. President. I have heard here saying that this was a government negotiating strategy, but the question that lies in the air is whether this is a negotiating strategy or whether the continuing discussion of nationalization is in fact a negotiating boycott and that negotiating boycott will directly impose losses on Portuguese. And this, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not acceptable! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u155	You still have the floor to Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS, you had the Box needing recapitalization without a department to recover credits and did nothing! They buried 1100 million in Banif, buried 3900 million in the New Bank and did not want to know what happened to that money or even if that money was enough.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u157	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u158	Now, they come here to say that banks should be sold and that there is no problem if they are sold damaging to the state and having the Portuguese taxpayers to pay for the sale of the banks. Mrs Cecilia Meireles, it cannot be said that it is not to sell at all costs and at the same time to say 'nationalization, nor to think'! », because the opposite of not selling at all costs is to nationalize, it is to have public control over the Bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u159	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u160	So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, today, if there is a price to be paid by the New Bank is the price of irresponsibility of the PSD and CDS, by the way they have electorally managed this entire process. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] [[PSD protests.]] They did not put the money they needed at the New Bank, they did not want to know about the management of the New Bank, and today the ‘bomb’ is bursting in the hands of those who came next.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u161	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u162	So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, do not talk about the bank or what it will cost taxpayers, speak about it, worry about the future of the banking system and, once invested the money, what we should do about those banks. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u163	For the conclusion of the debate on draft resolutions 171 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) and 641 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Any damage that will occur in the BES / New Bank process is the responsibility of the PSD and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u165	Oh, of course! Open... [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u166	These were the parties who in the government lied to the Portuguese saying that there would be no cost of the resolution of the BES and the creation of the New Bank. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's see the two options. If the New Bank is sold to private persons, the losses will be consolidated and will continue in the future, because the State will not see anything of that Bank nor will it be able to use it in any way and will also have more than 60 % of bank capital completely out of control.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u167	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u168	If the Bank remains in the public sphere, the losses already incurred by the previous Government may actually occur, but may be offset by terms of a bank that we can use to finance the economy and remove dividends and finance the State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u169	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u170	Mr. President, I will finish. If the PS opts to privatize the New Bank, choosing to use the old scheme, clean the banks to hand over to private ones again, it will be assuming its share of responsibility in this process of surrender of capital to privates. And, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this would be entirely unacceptable in a process in which the Portuguese State has already spent EUR 3900 million, and it may even lose much more. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u171	At the end of this debate, we come to the last item on our agenda before the vote on the Rules of Procedure, which generally consists of the debate on the drafts of lein. 12 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Reduction of packaging waste ( The Greens) and 389 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Determines the legal regime for the use of packaging provided on commercial surfaces ( PCP ) together with draft resolution No 638 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government work towards reducing the number of plastic packagings, thus promoting the use of other more environmentally friendly materials (NAPs). To open this item on the agenda, to present the diploma of your party, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not the first time that the Greens bring the theme of this bill, which aims to reduce packaging and packaging waste to the Assembly of the Republic. The prevention of packaging waste has been the poor relative of waste management policy. And anyone who makes a few purchases in hypermarkets knows that when he gets home and will pack the products he bought, fill in a bag, unique and exclusively, of packaging to put in the trash. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, once and for all, we must make a contribution to resolving this issue. If it is true that we need to sensitize consumers in particular and citizens in general about reducing packaging waste, it is also true that consumers often have no choice, because if they want to buy a particular product they also drag the purchase of the package, since the market does not sell the packaged product differently. The market must therefore be regulated. Once again, the Greens bring concrete examples to the Assembly of the Republic for you and the Members. Members can be sensitized to this issue. Look, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this pack of a teddy bear, interesting by signal. The speaker displayed a carton of cards with a teddy bear. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the card here is completely unnecessary. It is not conditioning the product and therefore has nothing to do with preserving its quality, so it is completely indispensable. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let me show you another pack. The speaker displayed a pack of small pieces of stickers. This packaging is about 20 times greater than the size of the product. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll show you another pack. The speaker displayed a pack of four yoghurts. in this case, the product is packed three times: it has the packaging where the yogurt is, which is then coated by a card and also by a plastic. This is a perfectly unnecessary thing and this is what consumers are forced to take home. The Greens question whether this is the time for the ladies and gentlemen. Members are raising awareness of this issue and if, once and for all, we will also help the market to offer more sustainability to citizens and consumers and thus contribute to a better environment. [[Applause from The Greens and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u173	I now give the floor to Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill that the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party brings today the discussion in the Assembly of the Republic has two major objectives. On the one hand, we want an effective and unequivocal reduction in the mass use of superfluous packaging distributed on commercial surfaces in order to protect the environment, the quality of life of people and to save natural resources, which we all know are scarce and finite. On the other hand, and no less relevant, this bill still has the objective of not penalizing the final consumer for the use of packages that he did not request, forcing him to pay, double and even triplely, these same packagings; better by saying, forcing him to pay the plastic bag—often used to deposit household waste—and at the same time forcing him to buy other plastic bags to place the garbage, which will then be accounted for in the waste invoice. in the case of packages, they are paid upon purchase of the product and subsequently the residue rate of these packages is also paid while the producer creates profits. This is the logic of the market, based on submission to monopoly groups, infinitely more interested in maximizing their profits, encouraging first the acquisition of superfluous articles, rather than having a real concern about the environment. In fact, the pretext of environmental protection is to develop strategies that no longer intend to validate the mercantillization of the environment and to remove responsibilities of the capitalist production system in environmental degradation. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the implementation of the measures proposed in this bill, the CFP proposes limiting the use of packages and superfluous materials determined by law, as well as stimulating the re-use by distributors. This is achieved by the application of a value by the tara, withdrawing the burden of payment to the consumer, while at the same time valuing, safeguarding and protecting the environment to the detriment of a payer who, because of this circumstance alone, acquires the right to pollute. The CFP also considers, in order to protect the environment, and does not question the need to safeguard the quality, conservation and transport of the packaged products, which should be reduced the volume and weight of the packaging as little as possible. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the measures present in this bill, the CFP reiterates its firm purpose of defending the environment and people and rejects, as it has been doing, the mercantillization of environmental goods. The harmful consequences of this marketing are seen in the degradation of the environment, the liability of consumers for their non-responsibility and the application of a taxation regime to solve environmental problems — the so-called green taxation — which creates injustice, because it admits that those who can pay can pollute, leave or the bill for the most impoverished layers of society or the lack of choice for the acquisition of goods. This is the contribution of the CFP to reverse the process of delapidation of the planet's resources, imposed by the capitalist production system, which debalances and weakens the environment and the well-being of people. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u175	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Several Community diplomas assume the unequivocal need to prevent the creation of plastic waste. Despite this, plastic packaging assumes a significant weight in the production of urban solid waste. Directive 2004 / 12 / EC of the European Parliament and of the Council provides that states establish national programmes and projects to introduce the producer's responsibility to minimize the environmental impact of packaging. Despite the above mentioned, the fact is that there is still excessive and superfluous dependence on plastic, simply entering a supermarket or attending a fast food restaurant to realize it. Thus, and in compliance with Community directives, recognizing that it is urgent to endeavour to reduce the amount of plastic packaging used daily by industry, agriculture, retail and consumers in general, the NAP recommends that the Government implement a preventive waste management policy, with a strong reduction in packaging from oil, until there are already alternatives that, although not being plastic, serve the same purposes. The law of green taxation has been an important step in environmental matters in our country, but it must be reviewed whenever necessary. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u177	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Renato Sampaio.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This matter has been discussed here several times and the PS considers it to be of greatest importance to environmental sustainability. We also consider the number of packages used today excessive. However, it is essential that we be weighted and act with a sense of responsibility, taking safe steps, without also jeopardizing economic sustainability. in waste policy, at first priority was given to waste treatment. in the second moment, it was and continues to be a priority to find solutions for a good environmental performance of the various actors in the production of waste throughout the economic cycle and to seek changes in collective habits. It has always been understood that an environmental waste policy should generally be based on the'reduction, reuse and recycling' triad. Today, it is much more than that: for a sustainable environment, in general, and for waste, in particular, we must find more effective instruments in political action, such as producer responsibility, appropriate financial instruments, the definition of an efficient strategy and information and awareness-raising policies. These are the instruments advocated by the current government, enshrined in the National Reform Plan and aimed at achieving the goals advocated in the current waste management instruments. The producer's liability principle is to compromise the producer, from the design of the product to its management, as a waste, in the promotion of reuse and recycling. These tools are essential for the reach of transition designs to a circular economy, ensuring the efficient use of resources and the integration of recyclable materials into the productive cycle. With regard to financial instruments, it is important to highlight the support provided at POSEUR (Operational Programme Sustainability and Resource Efficiency) for meeting recycling targets and avoiding diversions of waste to landfills. This strategy is based on the fulfilment of the goals of PERSU 2020 ( Strategic Plan for Urban Waste 2014 - 2020 ), seeking to increase the effectiveness of its management. With regard to information and awareness-raising policies, it is necessary to increase and increase the tools and means for them to be extended to all sectors of society. It is in this sense that the Government is working, in an integrated way and not by momentary, inconsequential impulses, in some far-reaching legislation in this House in this Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u179	Mr John Vasconcelos, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block accompanies the concerns and proposals here under discussion. The profusion of packaging and consequently the large amount of waste produced by this route are problems that must be solved. We believe that the way to deal with this issue is through effective public policies. You cannot buy the right to pollute, resources are limited, the planet is only one and we also know that we should preserve it, so the basic principle should be that of non-pollution. As a society, we must define and build specific standards of limitation to over-packing and materials used in packaging. This is a matter that cannot be kept in the hands of the market, first because the planet and the environment are too important for us to fail, but also because there is no solution to the problem. We see, for example, as an necessarily equal product in all brands is valued by over-packing or by an easy opening, which carries more waste. We see how brands use overpacking to sell higher quantity of product in joint packages and, when we talk about more unnecessary packaging, we also talk about more chemicals and more inks. The current system is irrational. We will look for precious resources to build superfluous packages, creating one problem in origin and another in destination, producing more waste that needs to be collected and treated. Overpacking costs are increased which are paid by end-users. in the purchase of the product, the consumer pays the superfluous packaging and also pays, through public services fee, the collection and treatment thereof. Policies for reducing packaging and reusable packaging without costs for consumers should be implemented. These are essential measures for the quality of life and for the preservation of the environment and nature. Despite the existence of several European directives on the prevention and reduction of packaging and packaging waste, the former PSD and CSD government did very little about this. I didn't want to know about environmental protection or people's quality of life. We had a government and an environmental minister who were authentic environmental knots. Its main brand image in this area was a swarm of oil concessions on the coast of the country, from Vila Real de Santo António to Costa Vicentina and from here to Porto, and the terrestrial areas of Tavira, Aljezur, Pombal and Battle.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u181	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u182	Many of these contracts were signed a few days before the legislative elections — a sad and tragic image of this government's brand!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u183	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u184	Finally, Mr President, the Left Block Parliamentary Group supports measures to reduce packaging, to end unnecessary packaging and to encourage the use of reusable packaging. We also support the study of additional measures, in particular to ensure that the necessary packaging is produced from less polluting and biodegradable materials, thus moving towards ensuring alternatives to the public. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u185	Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco, from the CDS-PP, has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft laws that are presented today by the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party and the Portuguese Communist Party aim to establish a legal regime with a view to reducing packaging, prohibiting the marketing and use of such waste, in particular those designated as superfluous and which are not decisive for the preservation of products and also for the maintenance of their quality. As the CDS Parliamentary Group has already had the opportunity to state in other discussions on the same subject, the primacy of waste production prevention, followed by reuse and recycling operations, are the operations that should lead an integrated, intelligent and circular management strategy, with the aim of dissociating the economic growth of waste production. This issue presents itself as a major challenge and a priority of environmental policies at Community and national level, in order to reconcile environmental interests with the social, technological and economic aspects of this issue. In addition to the development of the Community framework in this area, the latest Government of the PSD and the CDS, after identifying the main constraints, but also the opportunities in the country, managed to undertake a set of reforms in the context of the green economy in order to develop and promote a sustainable growth model. One of the constraints identified within the waste sector was the excessive use of plastic bags and the consequent need to develop a set of initiatives to address this problem. These initiatives were reflected in the Strategic Plan for Urban Waste 2020, in the National Waste Management Plan, but also in cross-cutting initiatives such as Green Taxation Reform, the European Structural and Investment Funds ( 2014 - 2020 ) and Ecoinnovation. These instruments are subject to compliance with the provisions of packaging and packaging waste legislation and are based on the principles and objectives of reducing their impact on the environment and, at the same time, avoiding barriers to trade and distortions of competition, both on the internal market and on the European Community market. It is easy to ban, ban, as the diplomas presented here suggest; it is difficult to be creative and innovative.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u187	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u188	It's hard to get the consumer to pay!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u189	Thus, we believe in the development of ecological solutions, in the adoption of mechanisms that can generate a change in behavior, either through an economic-financial instrument, or through awareness-raising and education campaigns that effectively contribute to a reduction in the production of packaging waste. This, as I have said, is a matter of priority and of great challenges. But, we reaffirm, this is not our way and therefore we cannot follow these draft laws of the Green Party and of the Communist Party. In contrast, we agree with the draft resolution submitted by the NAP, which goes exactly in the sense that we defend, as I have explicitly left in my intervention. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u190	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Coimbra of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The efficient use of resources, the reduction of waste production and the improvements in its management are common objectives for all parties. But unlike the NAP, which today recognizes the progress achieved, particularly in the context of green taxation, and shows a concern in going further, the CFP and the Greens come with fresh projects. The Greens presented this project once in the X Legislation and twice again in the XII Legislation and was always rejected with the votes against the PSD, the CDS and the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u192	Unfortunately!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u193	They're presenting him again today. The PCP presented this project in the XII Legislation and was also rejected with the votes against the PSD, the CDS and the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u194	He's wrong! You have changes!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u195	You will come back today, but with some amendments.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u196	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u197	They have always been plunged with the same arguments that remain valid today: despite the worthy purposes, initiatives can translate into perverse and disturbing effects of what they want to achieve. Projects may have negative competition implications and go against market laws as well as jeopardise the quality of products and consumer safety. The choice of quality and type of packaging must be the responsibility of the producers, and the Government must implement measures to encourage the producer to adopt measures to prevent and reduce packaging. But it is interesting to check some of the changes that the PCP makes to your project. For example, the CFP removes indications concerning plastic bags, finally recognizing that this aspect has been ensured by the success of green taxation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u198	Until the end!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u199	One year after the introduction of the rate on plastic bags, the Portuguese Environment Agency publicly stated that Portuguese habits had become greener, with a 95 % reduction in consumption of light plastic bags.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u200	There's proof that the effect on the market is great!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u201	The PCP has taken a little longer to reach this same conclusion, but it has come and that is what we have to point out! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I know you can shut up now. They shut down unions, they shut down parliamentary committees of inquiry. But at least at the plenary, let us talk. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u202	At least in the plenary, let us speak! You understand well the weight in your consciousness, because, in view of the good way that was going on in environmental matters,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u203	Oh, oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u204	... decided to chum a Government Programme that was committed to clear goals, which specified the objectives that it intended to achieve and quantify those objectives. They preferred to approve a programme that says nothing, which, in the environmental area, is an absolute void. To get an idea, the word 'package' is only once and the word'recycling' does not appear in this programme! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u205	It is also these parties that support a government and an Environment Minister who, in the environmental area, abstained from a major commitment to green growth, calling it vague and dispersed and exchanging it by a single vector of circular economy. It is worthy and important, indeed, but it was already in this environmental strategy, so praised as European and world-wide that it involved more than 100 civil society entities united in a large coalition, with an action plan with 114 goals that was exchanged by a single vector! The government is doing very little in the area of the environment too, and that is what it weighs on the awareness of the PCP and the Greens and, as a result, also on the Left Block. [[PSD applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u206	To close the debate, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u207	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, the arguments of the PSD and the CDS go, exactly and in a way very vehemently, in the same sense: the market cannot be shaken. Everything that has to do with reducing packaging can only be done by penalising consumers, otherwise it is not possible! The Greens regret that this project may be re-leaded by PSD, CDS and PS, because it is indeed a missed opportunity. It is once again continuing to penalise consumers. Why? Because consumers are obliged to pay a percentage of the price for the product and another, whether we want it or not for the packaging, when we could even benefit the consumer at a lower price of the product. But you are not interested in that. In fact, your policy is only to penalize people in any way! They don't seem to have any other creativity, after all. Mr PAN, with all honesty, I would like to tell you that the PAN today has not made a good contribution to this debate and I will tell you why. The Greens brought here a bill with proposals to regulate the market and the NAP appears with a draft resolution to « kick up » the problem for the government, removing it from the scope of the Assembly of the Republic. This does not seem to me to be a good contribution, because what you gave was an argument, an escape, so that the PSD, CDS and PS could vote in favour of a completely harmless project and not assume the responsibility that the Assembly of the Republic should assume.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u208	Harmless? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u209	On the other hand,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u210	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u211	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr PAN once again overcome the need for a review of the law on green taxation in a logic to penalise consumers. We believe that there is a need for another creativity, which is to regulate the market. What the market offers is decisive for better environmental performance. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u212	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of this item and will then enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot do so will have to signal to the Bureau and then make the presence record, so that it will be considered to be present at the meeting. [[Pause.]] The electronic table records 217 presences, to which are added those of the Members. Deputies André Pinotes Batista and Paulo Trigo Pereira, of PS, Amadeu Soares Alberaria, José de Matos Correia and Pedro Pinto, of PSD, and João Pinho de Almeida, of CDS-PP, perfezing 223 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes. Let's start with vote No 208 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Despite the death of Alberto Santos Pereira ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP and PCP ). I request Mr. Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro to proceed to his reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « At 80 years of age Alberto Fernandes dos Santos Pereira died, natural settlement of Cuma, Huambo, Angola. Trained in medicine, specialized in general and tropical surgery, he performed functions for many years at the District Hospital of Faro, recognized with denode and knowledgeable competence. His indelible spirit of civic service led him to establish and direct, since 1994, the Algarve Oncological Association, made up of volunteers with personal and professional experience of cancer-related problems, which performs a remarkable work in the fight against this scourge, in prevention, in aid to the cancer patient and in their integration into the community. It did so in multiple ways, among which are highlighted, by its notoriety and social relevance, the Mobile Unit for Breast Cancer Tracking — through fundraising, such as the annual event Mamamaratona — the Health XXI Program and the Algarve Radiotherapy Unit. Among several distinctions, he was awarded in 2012 the Merit Medal—Grau Ouro, by the Ministry of Health. A remarkable man, inexhaustible in the energy devoted to the fights he embraced, leaves a humanist legacy and solidarity, which motivates him to claim that a noble citizen has been lost and that the Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret and addresses the condolences to his family, as well as to the Algarve's Oncological Association. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u214	Let's vote the regret vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we turn to vote No 211/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of António dos Santos Júnior ( President of RA, PS, BE and 1 Member of the PSD ). I ask Secretary Idália to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u215	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « António dos Santos Júnior was natural of Cafus, municipality of Vila Nova da Barquinha, having died last January 27 to 73 years old. Known as a unionist, he was one of the founders of the CGTP-Interunional and the first elected president of the Union of Metalworkers of Lisbon in 1970, a union that incorporated the core of founders of this trade union confederation. Historical and prestigious trade unionist, António dos Santos Júnior began working very early, having come to Lisbon at the age of 14. Next, he worked in several sectors, of TAP maintenance insurance, having been associated with SITAVA ( Aviation Workers'Union and Airports ). Militant of causes, he early participated in demonstrations then suppressed by the police, also expressing his public protest against colonial war, which led him to emigrate to Canada, returning to Portugal after 25 April, where he maintained his link to trade unionism and TAP. He also developed an intense and committed militancy in the Mes ( Movement of the Socialist Left ), always maintaining a civic course of recognized humanist expression and solidarity, having been thanked as the Great Officer of the Order of Freedom. at this moment of recognition and sadness, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary on 3 February 2017, expresses its deep sorrow to the grieving family of António dos Santos Júnior, his friends and comrades, as well as to the CGTP-IN and the entire union family. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u216	Let's vote the regret vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the votes that we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the following are a set of votes: votes Nos 205 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Condemning the recent restrictions imposed by the President of the United States on immigration and reception of refugees ( PS ), 206 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Condemnation by the recent statements and deliberations of the Trump Administration ( BE, PAN, PS Members and 1 PSD Member ), 207 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemning policies that violate the rights of refugees and migrants ( CFP ), 209 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Condemnation and concern for the adoption of restrictive migration measures ( CDS-PP and PSD ) and 210 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemnation in defence of the values of the transatlantic relationship ( PSD ). Each parliamentary group has 2 minutes to speak on the votes. Mr Sérgio Sousa Pinto of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u217	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Proposes vote No 205 / XIII ( 2. a ) condemn policy measures adopted by the American Administration, measures aimed at particularly vulnerable categories of citizens, citizens fleeing war, persecution, poverty, hunger, lack of security, particularly refugees and immigrants, but also categories identified according to a religious criterion, targeting citizens from Muslim countries. These measures, for their cruelty and injustice, cause the Portuguese people, which we represent here, a lively concern, which this vote wishes to express. They are measures that reject the properly formed consciences, violate international law and the conventions that the United States of America are signatories and violate fundamental values of openness, tolerance and observance of fundamental rights, which are structuring of the international community and which are defended and protected by the Charter of the United Nations. The Assembly of the Republic expresses its concern at solutions that do not seem to us own in a country that we have become accustomed to respecting and admiring as the leader of the free world and that in various titles it has been a reference in the observance of these values which now read unwarrantedly with policies that will probably prove to be counterproductive and ineffective. In addition, this vote aims to express the concern of the Assembly of the Republic and the Portuguese people here represented in terms that seem appropriate and compatible with the relations which Portugal maintains and very precious with the United States of America, sovereign state, ally and friend of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u218	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What is happening with Trump Administration actions should concern us all and everyone. That is exactly why we would like the possibility of an extended vote in this House to condemn what all Democrats, all human rights defenders, should condemn right now. That was not possible. from the Left Block, we leave at least this appeal individually to each Member, to each Member, so that he can vote with his conscience. The vote we put forward condemns President Trump's actions in what must be condemned and without taking any of the charges owed to him. He is having a reactionary and conservative policy in his actions, using hatred against immigrants and refugees. Anyone who does not consider these actions, such as the construction of the wall on the border with Mexico, as an attack on immigrants, and, like the ban on the entry of refugees in the United States of America, as an attack on these refugees, then, in fact, you are not seeing the problem and is going on next to this outrage that should be planetary. But we know well that the elites, particularly the Europeans, now live with a feeling of fear and orphanhood. This is clear, for example, in the CDS vote or PSD vote, which try to alert the American Administration to the transatlantic ties, thinking that this will still make them have any seat at the feast of the empire. Now, we do not see any validity in this sense of orphanhood or widowhood, which people like Mr Telmo Correia here are demonstrating. We don't see any sense of validity in this. We well remember the attacks that militarism in the United States of America, we remember that torture, which now some want to be present, was part of the past and we remember that many of these things have been done to cover NATO.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u220	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u221	Therefore, Mr President, we do not use this moment, which should be of indignation, for a moment of washing away the image of the past, which we want it to be passed. The present is for us to claim to all a future that does not resurrect that past. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u222	Mrs Carla Cruz of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u223	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Policies which in several countries disregard the rights of refugees and migrants are repudiated. The dramatic situation of millions of displaced and refugees has, as their main causes, the wars resulting from the aggression and interference carried out by the United States of America, NATO, the European Union and its allies, and Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya and Syria are there to demonstrate it. The migratory flows of millions of human beings who try to escape poverty and other social dramas are rooted in the growing inequalities and asymmetries of development resulting from policies of exploitation, accumulation and concentration of wealth and the imposition of economic relations in relations between States. Refugees and migrants are neither a threat nor those responsible for the economic and social crisis.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u224	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u225	in this framework, it takes particular seriousness the adoption by the American Administration of measures that, in part, by deepening the aspects of the policy for migration and asylum which, in part, has already been implemented—of which is the continuation of the construction of the wall at the border with Mexico, initiated by the Clinton Administration— further restrict the rules of reception and discrimination on the basis of nationality. This is a policy that is not exclusive to the United States of America. The European Union has sought to implement measures such as the inhumane Agreement with Turkey, the militarization of the humanitarian issue, the so-called'return policy', the outsourcing of borders and the concept of 'Europe fortaleza' and the selective Blue Card, the mimetic Green Charter of the United States of America, the construction of retention centres, among others.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u226	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u227	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u228	I shall conclude, Mr President. That's why, sirs. Members, we present the vote of condemnation, a vote which condemns policies that violate the rights of refugees and migrants, in particular those adopted by the Trump Administration, and which fights for policies for refugees and migrants who respect their rights enshrined in international law. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u229	Mr Telmo Correia of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u230	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to say, on behalf of the CDS-PP, that our position on this matter is clear and unequivocal. First of all, I stress that in this matter we do not want to replace ourselves in any way with the choice made by the Americans, which is a democratic, legitimate choice and which, from our point of view, must be respected. What is at stake is not a kind of second international tour of American presidential elections. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u231	I wanted to say, however, that the beginning of this administration is, for us, a factor of — and the word is clear — concern. What are we talking about, in particular? We are talking about some statements in the field of foreign policy, calling into question solid and structural alliances, and we are talking, above all, about — and this is the basis for votes — decisions on the reception of refugees and, in particular, the prohibition on entry into the United States of America of citizens of certain countries in particular, whether based on nationality or on religion. Moreover, and for several reasons, Mr President, this matter does not seem to solve the problem, because if it focuses on the basis of the terrorist threat, we know that the terrorist threat often did not arise even from the countries on the same list.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u232	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u233	On the other hand, it can serve even — what is more worrying — as a sort of call for international jihadism, giving them an argument and serving as a call. In other words, from our point of view, it is a decision that may not solve the problem and can obviously create tensions, besides not helping to solve the problem of refugees, which must be a central concern of international policy. This is our point. But it is our point on the assumption that we are certain that the United States of America is, and will continue to be, one of the main and greatest democracies in the world, that they are a friendly country in Portugal and that Portugal must continue to be a friend.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u234	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u235	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that it is very strange for us that those who have been all the time—either they or their predecessors in the parties that gave them origin—such as the Left Block, or who are still today, like the PCP, admirers of the worst dictatorships of the world, now want to teach us about democracy, in a kind of psychedelic morality, whether we are the Americans. We don't accept these lessons. We're clear on what we're saying. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u236	Mr Sérgio Azevedo of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u237	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It becomes evident and equally worrying, in the context of transatlantic relations as an area of manifestation of the most diverse freedoms, of democratic affirmation of the peoples and of the appeal and realization of fundamental, irrevocable and irrevocable human rights, that any decision, even though sovereign, which questions the humanist foundations that serve as the basis of our social, political and legal organization, should be accompanied with caution and particular reprobation. That is, the calls for the ruin of free trade between peoples, the destruction of stability and the importance of international and multilateral conventions, contributing to global sustainable development, the ruin of robustness of a global alliance of security and defence, such as NATO, but above all the choice for free discrimination and securityism, to the detriment of more elementary fundamental principles that serve as a basis for the democratic spirit in the global space of freedom, justice and security, but above all, to the uncompromising values of respect for human dignity. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the foundation of our society compels us to look at the migration crisis as a serious humanitarian problem, and it is only within this spirit of respect for the dignity and the most basic humanitarian values that it must be addressed. Just as it is equally worrying, but not less challenging, the calls for European fragmentation and the organisational legal framework in which we find ourselves. at the time of attrition and uncertainty in which we are, the PSD believes that they should serve as an appeal and motivation for the deepening of European construction in its strengthening as a political organization, promoter and respecter of international commitments, respect for human rights where refugees are included, and the promotion and strengthening of global cooperation between States, in a continuous statement of fundamental freedoms. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u238	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Parliamentary Group of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u239	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens condemn and repudiate the recent declarations and decisions of the current U.S. Administration and, in particular, its President, Donald Trump, in particular on immigration restrictions and refugee reception. And when we talk about refugees, I remember that we are talking about human beings fleeing war, fleeing fear, fleeing hunger. They are people who have just escaped the problems created, fostered and fed also by the United States of America and NATO. We believe that the citizens of the world have reason to be concerned about the future, in a world that wants peace and respect among peoples. It is not only the subject of immigration by the United States of America that this concern comes, we are also concerned about what they want to do, for example, with the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, but also with the Treaties on Climate Change, including the Paris Agreement, and the Framework Conventions for Climate Change within the United Nations. Therefore, the citizens of the world have more than reasons to be concerned. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u240	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote of the votes that have just been approved, beginning with vote No 205 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemning the recent restrictions imposed by the President of the United States on immigration and reception of refugees ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the Greens and the NAP and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PCP.]] [[It is this: Migration in the world has been a constant of human existence, induced by the search for better living conditions, by seeking refuge in the face of political or religious persecution, or by hunger and war. The United States of America, a nation built by immigrants, has always been an example, having well-imposed in its identity and character the openness to the world, to people and to its diversity, a country friend of freedom, a daughter of Enlightenment. The recent measures taken by the newly-impossed U.S. Administration, blocking access to American territory to certain categories of people discriminated against according to their origin and religious creed, have justified indignation, the civilizational retrogress that they represent and the disrespect for elementary human rights principles, and the nations, structuring Western and universal culture. The Assembly of the Republic trusts that American democracy and its institutions will be able to preserve policies consistent with its founding values, which have inspired other peoples to protect fundamental rights and affirm the rule of law. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, regrets the restrictions recently imposed by the President of the United States of America on immigration, the reception of refugees and access of foreigners in general to the territory of the United States, expressing its deep concern at the significance of such restrictions on all those who, on a daily basis, are affected by them for the protection of human rights at the global level, and for the affirmation of the primacy of international law and the corresponding linkage of States to their provisions.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u241	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u242	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u243	To inform the House that we are going to make a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u244	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 206 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemnation by the recent statements and deliberations of the Trump Administration ( BE, PAN, PS Members and 1 PSD Member ). [[Subject to the vote, the CDS-PP and 4 PS (António Gameiro, Miranda Calha, Sérgio Sousa Pinto and Vitalino Canas), votes in favour of BE, the PCP, the Os Verdes, the PAN and 4 PS (Alexandre Quintanilha, Helena Roseta, Paulo Trigo Pereira and Pedro Bacelar de Vasconcelos) and 1 PSD (Paula Teixeira da Cruz) and the abstention of PS.]] [[On 20 January 2017, Donald Trump was appointed President of the United States of America. In his first speech in office, Trump made it clear that the idea and the inflamed rhetoric with which he completed the election campaign would be the basis of his mandate and not only a diversion of occasion for, because of hatred, mobilize part of American society and electorate. In the early days of his mandate, Trump showed how his Administration sees the world and how he wants to be seen by it. He signed a decree prohibiting the entry into the United States of America of all refugees for a period of at least 120 days, of undetermined Syrian refugees and citizens of Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria and Yemen for 90 days, anticipating further restrictions on immigration, even legal. He put into effect one of his main campaign threats: the construction of a wall along the 3200 kilometres of the border with Mexico. It has become public that its administration is working on the return of black sites, the secret CIA prisons in several countries where, during George W. Bush's mandate, alleged terrorist suspects captured in Iraq and in other countries were interrogated and subjected to torture. He cut public funding to international NGOs that support women in access to voluntary termination of pregnancy, ordered Yemen to bomb, ordered the construction of pipelines in environmentally sensitive areas and resumed the denial of climate change. Powered around the world, the expectation that, by the end of the electoral period, Donald Trump would eventually only be one more liberal-conservative profile president, proved to be wrong. The consequences of Trump's internal and external policies relate to global citizenship and do not recommend the passivity of anyone, individuals and institutions. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic meeting in plenary session reaffirms its commitment to the defence of human rights, gender equality, peaceful resolution of conflicts, freedom of the press, religious freedom, respect for the Geneva Convention and the Paris Climate Change Agreements, as well as its commitment to combating xenophobia, racism and sexism, condemning the statements and deliberations of the Trump Administration contrary to these principles.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u245	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u246	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u247	Mr President, it is to inform the House that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u248	We turn to the vote on vote No 207 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemning policies that violate the rights of refugees and migrants ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, the CDS-PP and three PS (Miranda Calha, Sérgio Sousa Pinto and Vitalino Canas), votes in favour of BE, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and 2 PS (Helena Roseta and Pedro Bacellar de Vasconcelos) and the PS abstention.]] [[It was this: policies which in several countries disrespect the rights of refugees and migrants are repudiated. In this context, it takes particular seriousness to adopt measures by the US Administration which, by deepening aspects of the immigration and asylum policy which has already been implemented in part — such as the continuation of the construction of the wall, initiated by the Clinton Administration at the border with Mexico — further restrict the rules of acceptance and discrimination on the basis of nationality. On the other hand, the European Union has been implementing measures such as: inhumane agreement with Turkey; so-called return policy; the selection 'blue card'; or the construction of retention centres; within the framework of its unacceptable common policy. The dramatic situation of millions of displaced persons and refugees has as one of their main causes the wars resulting from the aggression and interference carried out by the United States of America, NATO, the European Union and its allies. Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya, Syria... there are to prove it. The migratory flows of millions of human beings, who try to escape poverty and other social dramas, are rooted in the growing social inequalities and developmental asymmetries resulting from policies of exploitation, accumulation and concentration of wealth and the imposition of economic relations in relations between States. Refugees and migrants are neither a threat nor those responsible for the economic and social crisis. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary: Condemns policies that violate the rights of refugees and migrants, in particular those adopted by the Trump Administration; Punishes policies for refugees and migrants who respect their rights enshrined in international law; Calls for the end of interference and aggression in international relations and respect for the sovereignty and independence of States, the right of peoples to self-determination and development; Defends the development of international relations based on peace, social progress, cooperation, respect for the right to sovereign economic and social development of States.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u249	Let us now vote on vote No 209 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Condemnation and concern for the adoption of restrictive migration measures ( CDS-PP and PSD ). [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN and two PS (Helena Roseta and Pedro Bacelar de Vasconcelos), votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] [[It is as follows: The newly elected President of the United States, in one of his first public acts, decreed the suspension of the refugee reception programme in the next 120 days, prohibiting the entry into the US territory of citizens of seven countries. Nevertheless, we recognize that this is a sovereign decision adopted by the US Administration, and that only its authorities can analyze the constitutionality of this decision, it is of particular concern. From now on, because it breaks with the humanist foundations of Western civilization, the best American tradition; but also because it induces a mistrust and a fracture that undermines the combination of efforts, at the multilateral level, with a view to controlling the migration crisis. With the awareness of the gravity of the present moment, it is desirable that the United States of America assume a central and leadership role as an indispensable reference point in the Western world for issues relating to international democracy, peace, stability and security. In the management of the greatest humanitarian crisis since World War II, there is a need for increasing convergence of political sensitivity and cooperation between partners in the transatlantic relationship. The communion of values as unmistakable as the defense of the rule of law, democracy and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms are factors that bind this cooperation. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, recalling the importance of the solid relationship of friendship and alliance between Portugal and the United States of America, expresses its concern at the executive order adopted by the new American Administration, and at the negative effects that may generate in international order, and regrets the worsening of the divergences between the European Union and the United States of America in the management and perception of the threats posed to our common security.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u250	We shall vote on vote No 210 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemnation in defence of the values of the transatlantic relationship ( PSD ). [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN and two PS (Helena Roseta and Pedro Bacelar de Vasconcelos), votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] [[The transatlantic community of democracies has been and will continue to be a space for cooperation for the freedoms and prosperity of the peoples. This stems from the communion of values and aspirations of all who make it up for the constitution and consolidation of political democracies, open societies and the social market economies. In this community, the United States of America plays an unmistakable role in defending these values, and the historic alliance they have with Europe, and, in particular, with Portugal, they lead us to reaffirm them at this time of great uncertainty. The vitality of the transatlantic relationship depended, and will continue to depend, on the commitment to free trade and freedom of economic flows; on international conventions and multilateral organizations; on the credibility, robustness and effectiveness of the NATO security and defence alliance; and, finally, on the principles of open societies, including the principle of non-discrimination. It is with great concern that, in the light of these considerations, we have seen the most recent developments in the position of the new US Administration, which adds a reversal of the policy that has guided the United States since the post-II World War with regard to relations with the European Union, with explicit calls for the fragmentation of the Union, at a particularly sensitive moment of the existence of the European institutions, whose project we reaffirm. In the unilateral abandonment of the promotion of free trade, in the devaluation of international conventions and international organizations, in the declarations of NATO fragility and in the choice of discriminatory methods in refugee policy, there are also clear signs of a development that will have negative effects on relations between the two sides of the North Atlantic. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary on 3 February 2017, endorses these options and urges the Government of Portugal, the European institutions, in particular the European Council, as well as the other international organisations of which Portugal is a member, to: To voice this rejection by renewing the commitment to these major designs, which form the basic structure of the transatlantic relationship, and to act for its promotion; To defend the European Union's voice in the defence of international commitments and human rights, including refugee rights, and to promote and deepen cooperation relations for sustainable development at global level.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u251	There are a number of requests for a word from various Members. Ladies and gentlemen, to whom I shall give the floor by order of inscription. Mrs. Isabel Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u252	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on this set of votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u253	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. João Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u254	Mr President, it is to announce that, on behalf of the honourable Members. Mr Alberto Martins, Joaquim Moreira Raposo, Eurico Brillante Dias and on my own behalf, will present a statement of vote on these last four votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u255	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Jorge Lacão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u256	It is also to be announced, Mr President, that I shall present a statement of vote on this whole.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u257	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Pedro Bacelar de Vasconcelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u258	Mr President, it is in order to announce that, on this set of votes, I shall, together with Mrs Helena Roseta, present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u259	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Wanda Guimarães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u260	Mr President, it is also to announce that I and Mrs Hortense Martins will present a statement of vote on this set of votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u261	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u262	Mr President, it is to announce that, on the last two votes, I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u263	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u264	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on the last votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u265	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u266	Mr President, it is to inform that, in respect of the last votes, the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u267	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. Paulo Neves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u268	Mr President, it is to announce that I will deliver a statement of vote on the last five votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u269	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Rubina Berardo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u270	Mr President, for the same purpose, that is to announce that, on the last five votes, I will present a statement of vote with Mrs Margarida Mano.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u271	We will move on to draft resolution No 29 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent replacement of railway mobility in the branch of Lousã ( The Greens) for which the PS requests that points 2 and 3 be voted on first and then as a whole. Let us therefore vote on point 1. [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS.]] We are voting together now on points 2 and 3. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We moved on to draft resolution No 489 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends the reactivation of the Mondego metro project and its inclusion in the 2016 - 2020 Railway Investment Plan ( BE) for which it was also requested to vote point-to-point. Let us begin by voting on point 1. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP and PAN and votes against the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall vote on point 2. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP and PAN, against the CFP and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] Let us now vote on point 3. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against the PS, the PCP and the Greens.]] Finally, we shall vote on point 4. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 635 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Beginning of the works of replacement, modernization and electrification of the Ramal da Lousã ( PCP ). [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u272	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u273	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u274	Mr President, on the three previous votes on the Lousã Branch and the Mondego Metro, we will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u275	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u276	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u277	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u278	Mr President, it is to announce that we will present a statement of vote on the voting on these matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u279	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u280	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u281	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u282	Mr President, it is to be noted that on behalf of the PSD bench we will present a statement of vote on the vote on these three draft resolutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u283	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall now vote on a request by the PS to the Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees Committee for a 60-day period from Bill No 46 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Change the exercise of trade union freedom and the rights of collective bargaining and participation of public security police personnel with police duties. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on Bill No 47/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the disciplinary status of the Public Security Police. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] This bill goes down to 1. the Commission. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall generally vote on Bill No 48/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 22 / 2013 of 26 February giving judicial administrators access to various databases, including the computer record of executions, tax databases and social security. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We shall, in general, vote on Bill No 49 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the law on public health. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This bill goes down to 9. the Commission. Mrs. Members, having no objection, we shall vote together two requests, submitted by the authors of their diplomas, asking for the discharge to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without voting, for a period of 30 days, of Bill No. 364 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend Law No 37 / 81 ( Nationality Law ) ( PSD ) and Bill No 390 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Alter the Law of Nationality, approved by Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October, and the Regulation on the Emolumentary of Registers and Notariado, approved by Decree-Law No 322 -A / 2001 of 14 December ( BE ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Bills are down to 1. the Commission. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 430 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of free access to national museums and monuments for young people up to 30 years during weekends and holidays ( PS ). The initial text was replaced at the author's request. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 636 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take the necessary measures to promote access by all citizens to national museums and monuments, mainly from people up to 35 years of age, establishing free access to weekends, holidays and Wednesdays, and extending the use of new information technologies ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS.]] With regard to draft resolution No 640 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Free access to national museums, national monuments and other entities with public participation ( BE) was requested to vote separately from points 4 and 5, which we shall vote first. [[When put to the vote, the votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP were adopted.]] We now turn to the vote on points 1 to 3 of the motion for a resolution. [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u284	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u285	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u286	Mr President, I would like to announce that, with regard to the last four votes, the CFP will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u287	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. The general vote on Bill No 51 / XIII ( 2 ) follows. ( a ) — Change the regime for freezing and losing crime instruments and products in the European Union, transposing Directive 2014 / 42 / EU. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] This bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We shall vote on draft resolution No 560 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the binding of teachers hired in accordance with Directive 1999 / 70 / EC(E). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 278 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Proposals for a scheme for the linkage of teachers in the career ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall generally vote on Bill No 388 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Removal of the portarium which increased the tax on petroleum products ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 171 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Determines the maintenance of the New Bank in the public sphere, ensuring its ownership and public management at the service of the interests of the people and the country ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 641 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by maintaining the ownership of the New Bank in the public sphere ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u288	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u289	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u290	Mr President, I would like to say that the PS will present a statement of vote on the two votes we have just held.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u291	Recorded We passed the general vote on Bill No. 12 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Reduction of packaging waste ( The Greens). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall generally vote on Bill No. 389 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Determines the legal regime for the use of packaging provided on commercial surfaces ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 638/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government work towards reducing the number of plastic packagings thus promoting the use of other more ecological materials ( NAPs ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 100 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Consecrates 31 January as National Sergeant Day ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u292	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u293	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u294	Mr President, to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the vote on this draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u295	Be registered. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 449 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends the urgent retraining of the Alexandre Herculano High School ( Porto ) ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 367 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Urgent requalification of the Alexandre Herculano High School in Porto ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 488 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — by the recovery of Alexandre Herculano School in Porto ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u296	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u297	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u298	Mr President, I would like to announce that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on these last three diplomas relating to the Alexandre Herculano School.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u299	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u300	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u301	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u302	Mr President, I would like to announce that the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on these three draft resolutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-03.u303	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the vote and we shall therefore end the agenda. The next plenary meeting will take place on Wednesday, 8 February, at 3 p.m. the next item is the 15th-year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, with the following order for clarification requests: PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and PS. Good weekend for everyone. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 44 minutes.]]
