ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of authority to open the galleries. Mrs. Members of the agenda today are the first item on the 15th anniversary of the debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure, and the second point, without time allocated for discussion, contain the following motions for resolutions: paragraph 35 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and Montenegro to Avoid Double Taxation and Prevent Tax Evasion in Income Tax Matters, signed in Lisbon on 12 July 2016 ; No 36 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Protocol, signed on 14 January 1971, amending the Convention between Portugal and France to Avoid Double Taxation and Establish Rules of Mutual Administrative Assistance in Income Tax Matters, signed on 25 August 2016 ; No 38 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Cooperation Agreement in the Field of Defence between the Portuguese Republic and the Islamic Republic of Mauritania, signed in Nouakchott, on 21 October 2010 ; No. 39 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Ibero-American Cinematographic Integration Convention adopted in Caracas on 11 November 1989 ; No 40 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the Amending Protocol to the Ibero-American Cinematographic Integration Convention, adopted in Córdoba, Kingdom of Spain, on 28 November 2007 ; No 41 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Latin American Agreement on Cinematographic Co-production adopted in Caracas on 11 November 1989 ; and No 42/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Amending Protocol to the Latin American Cinematic Co-production Agreement signed in Bogotá on 14 July 2006. There will also be a vote on the Rules of Procedure. I would like to congratulate the Prime Minister and the Members. Members of the Government present. Let us then begin the 15-year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( 2 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure. To open the debate, Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u2	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by greeting you ex and on your behalf the whole Government for the results of the 2016 budget implementation. Only at the end of March will we know exactly after validation by EUROSTAT and INE, which the 2016 budget deficit in national accounts, but the data now available suggest that the deficit will run by 2, 3 % of GDP (gross domestic product ), a value very close to that entered in the State budget for 2016 and that is lower than that requested by Brussels. It is never too much to point out that the lowest deficit has ever been achieved since 25 April 1974. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Nor is it further to recall that the opposition always considered that this objective was unachievable or arithmetically impossible. This is not just a low deficit, but a deficit achieved with greater social justice, without increasing the level of taxation and an economy with an even lower growth than we would like — this is a remarkable fact. What distinguishes this governance of the Socialist Party from previous PSD/CDS governance is the fact that we look not only at the budget balance, but at the way it is achieved. We did not cut into social benefits for the most vulnerable — whether poor elderly or poor children — but we increased them. We did not cut wages or pensions, but we rejected income. And all this without increasing the overall level of taxation and reducing direct taxation on labour income. They will ask the most skeptical: how was this possible? It was possible, among other reasons, because the PS knows that a highly restrictive fiscal policy, raising taxes and cutting expenditure, such as the one initiated by the previous government, has a recessional effect on the economy, and this is reflected in lower incomes and lower Product. It has therefore adopted a moderate fiscal consolidation policy, which has increased employment, increased social contributions and reduced unemployment benefits. Former President Jorge Sampaio said in a sentence so often misinterpreted that «there is life beyond the deficit». True, controlling the deficit, having the public accounts in order is not an objective in itself, it is only a means of achieving other objectives. It is perhaps the right time to remember what these objectives are. Portugal, better by saying Portuguese and Portuguese learned by their own experience, and for three times in democracy, the consequences of unsustainable public finances. We are grateful to whoever lends us money, to our creditors, and we lose national sovereignty. Our autonomy as a country, in order to implement the policies that serve the well-being of our population, is reduced. What is the use of being inscribed in the Constitution that we are a sovereign country if, in practice, the deficit and debt have such excessive weight that make such sovereignty a fiction? It's no use! The 2016 deficit, clearly below 2, 5 % of GDP, is therefore, and it is not too much repeated - it is a fundamental result. It will allow Portugal to leave the excessive deficit procedure, i.e. to leave the European radar. It is essential that Portugal regain international credibility in its ability to maintain sound public finances. Credibility is associated with reputation and reputation to trust. It is this trust of our citizens, of our European partners and of our creditors that enables us to improve the conditions of our future funding, reducing public debt charges and freeing these resources to better serve the people. Mr. Prime Minister, surely the parties to the right of the PS will try to devalue this result, saying that public debt is more important than deficit and that the downward trajectory of the debt weight has not yet begun. It is important here to remember that this trajectory was ascending in 2012, in 2013, in 2014 and 2015, if we consider the net debt of deposits. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For it to be reduced sustainably, it is necessary to reduce the financing needs of the State. Now, as we all know, the financial system has demanded, and it will continue to demand in 2017 — with the General Deposit Box — an effort to inject capital by the State. It is too clear that there was a heavy inheritance left to this government in the financial system, of unresolved and successively deferred situations: in BANIF, in New Bank, in the General Deposit Box, to cite only the most important cases. The resolution of these problems in the financial system by the Government of V.e. Prime Minister has required additional debt efforts beyond the result of the budget deficit. In short, the result of the deficit is important, as it contributes to increasing our international credibility and reduces the financing needs of the State. But it is also important to clean up the financial system, which the government is doing, and some non-financial public enterprises, because both have needed additional capital. Obviously, "a doll doesn't make spring" and confidence takes years to build. This is only by adapting Sergio Godinho, the « first year of our lives», i.e. the first year of this legislature. This is why it is necessary to be very rigorous in the implementation of the 2017 budget and to start now preparing for the 2018 financial year, where the gradual opening of careers and the updating of the remuneration of workers in public functions, which we know will have a budgetary impact. Mr Prime Minister, it would soon only serve to reduce the deficit without economic growth and without employment. in the economic field, the data of the end of the year are also encouraging. There is an improvement in economic sentiment indicators — EUROSTAT — and the economic climate — INE — at the end of 2016, reaching the highest values since 2007. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Official data from INE and Banco de Portugal already showed an acceleration of economic growth in the third quarter of 2016. Credible and independent institutions make in January much more optimistic forecasts than at the end of last year regarding the 2016 economic growth. The forecasts of ISEG ( Higher Institute of Economics and Management ) are growth between 1, 3 % to 1, 4 % of GDP. The Catholic University, not only about my « home », has also raised its forecast of economic growth to 1, 3 % in 2016, and 1, 7 % in 2017. This growth acceleration forecast at the end of 2016 is largely based on private consumption in the services sector, in particular tourism, and on the resumption of the construction sector. We can then conclude that it is not only the downward deficit, but that the economy accelerates, that growth accelerates, even if it is moderate and less than we would like. Let us be clear: it is not the government that determines economic growth, it is families and businesses. But a government with good policies can facilitate it by ensuring fiscal stability and greater speed in tax and tax justice by reducing the so-called « cost of context », and contributing to the indebtedness of families and businesses, which is the example of the PERES ( Special Programme for the Reduction of State Allowance ). Mr Prime Minister, the Portuguese and Portuguese already feel that we have exceeded a long period of economic and social instability, characterized by permanent reform budgets, dramatic fluctuations between spending cuts in years and tax increases in other years, in successive evaluations of the Constitutional Court on legal standards. They already feel that with the PS Government they are living in a period of democratic normality. at this new stage, I would very much like there to be less political clique and more cooperation for the common good. Still this week we watched the PSD vote against a measure, which ultimately only supports because it was not the one to propose the measure and to try to create difficulties in governance. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u3	Yes, it will not succeed, Prime Minister. Less tactics and political games and more sense of state are what Portuguese want from their representatives. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In the near future, we will discuss decentralization in this House and we hope that, at that time, the attitude of opposition, in particular the PSD, will be constructive. [[PSD protests.]] I shall conclude, Prime Minister, by saying the following: the PS is here to dignify policy, i.e. to discuss the country's priority issues, to address and not avoid problems and to give them the most satisfactory solutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u4	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u5	I shall now conclude, Mr President. Although the most recent data on economic growth and budgetary implementation are a cause of joy, it is necessary that the country should grow more in 2017 and in the coming years. Growth and sustainable development generally generate more employment, contribute to the sustainability of social security.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u6	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u7	For all this, and because we have to be ambitious, I would like to leave only one question to you, Prime Minister, which is this: knowing that public and private investment should be an essential component of growth in 2017, which are the major, ongoing or new measures, which, in your view, may stimulate this Prime Minister, we wish the success of the government, because its success will be the success of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u8	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u9	Mr President, Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira, I would like to thank you for your words of encouragement. Allow me to make three fundamental comments on your question. First comment: what the year 2016 has shown is that it is possible to have more employment and better living conditions with less deficit. Firstly, I am referring to employment, which was the main objective of our economic policy. over the year, unemployment fell almost 2 percentage points, reaching the end of the year with less than 60 000 unemployed and more than 80 000 new employees. This means success in the main objective of our economic policy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, I refer to the inversion of the economic slowdown path, which came from 2015. If we compare 0, 1 % growth in the third quarter of 2015 with the largest growth of the whole European Union in the third quarter of 2016 we see how we reverse a slowdown strategy for a growth strategy that we now have to pursue. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And at the same time, we have not only the lowest deficit in the last 42 years but also one of the largest primary balances of the European Union as a whole and, for the first time in many years, a reduction in net debt, which has dropped 1 percentage point in relation to the product. That is, we arrived at the end of 2016 with more employment, better living conditions, less deficit and less debt than we had when we started government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Second comment: to continue, we need more investment, from now on more public investment. The State budget for this year has already provided for a 20 % increase in public investment in our country. This, of course, means speeding up the implementation of the Community funds. I will not tire of repeating: on the day we arrived at the government, only EUR 4 million had arrived to support companies to invest. We arrived at the end of the year with EUR 460 million in companies. And now that we are at cruising speed, we can accept the commitment that we will bring to companies this year more than twice as much as we did last year, with EUR 1 billion available to companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to real investment, we also have more than 1000 applications approved, a total of more than EUR 1000 million. with regard to the regional development programme, we have already contracted, with terms of acceptance signed, almost EUR 1000 million, having managed last year to beat a very difficult record which had been set by the former Minister for Assumption Cristas — which in 2012 had approved 10 000 projects — when we approved 15 000 investment projects only in rural development. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We will continue with investments in railways and ports, with investments especially in schools, PSP ( Public Security Police ) teams and GNR ( Republican National Guard ) posts, hospitals, with nearby investments. on the next day 7, we will solve a serious problem with national funds resulting from the diabolization of investment on roads, which is that we have no longer been able to use Community funds to serve the link of business areas to the major motorways that the country has,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u10	That was already done!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u11	Was it done? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u12	... in order to promote the competitiveness of the economy and to ensure that companies can benefit from infrastructure, thus improving the conditions of their competitiveness. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] But we must also look at private investment. We therefore defrosted SIMPLEX, because it is essential to reduce bureaucracy, reduce the cost of context so that companies can invest, as was essential in the State budget, we approved the amendments to the Investment Support Tax Scheme, create a more attractive instrument to support entrepreneurship under the Seed programme or the significant reduction that has been made of the special payment on behalf of the State budget, helping the liquidity of the companies and supporting their treasury. This means that 2017 is the year in which we also have to dynamize public investment support policies, both public investment and private investment. And the data we have are encouraging, because what we have seen from the creation of new jobs, the increase in imports of machines and equipment are advanced signs that companies are investing and, as happened in 2016, the investment in 2017 will be significant. I would also like to make a third and final comment on the political issue that you put on the PSD position. The PSD wanted to do here a political intrigue exercise, seeking to point out that we cannot count on the PSD. But truly, what the PSD has been able to demonstrate was its irrelevance and that it simply does not count for anything in relation to the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Firstly, it does not count for the lives of people and businesses. It will not be thanks to the PSD that workers will see the national minimum wage increased, nor will it be thanks to the PSD that companies will see their tax costs reduced. [[PSD protests.]] on the contrary, if the country depended on the PSD, the wages continued not to rise and the tax burden continued not to decrease. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Secondly, it doesn't count because the plot failed. The PSD wanted to undermine social dialogue and weaken and challenge the parliamentary majority. Now, in less than 24 hours it was possible to find an alternative solution,... [[Protests from PSD MP Teresa Morais.]] ... which has the support of the partners in social dialogue and which has the support of the partners of this parliamentary majority.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u13	What a cure!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u14	Not even the concert was mined, not most were weakened. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But it was not without consequences that this happened. It is that if there were social partners who had some illusion about the PSD, they realized that, truly, the PSD has an absolute disregard for social consultation and does not hesitate to question social consultation if they think that this gives him some political gain of circumstance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] But it also had consequences in this House, because we learned that the PSD does not count for approval of whatever it is in this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD laughter.]] We learned that the PSD is not determined by itself, but by the positions of The Greens, the PCP and the Left Block. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] So when we want to know how the PSD is going to vote, we talk to The Greens, the PCP and the Left Block, and so we will know how the PSD votes. [[PS's laughter and applause.]] And all this for what, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u15	You've outlived your time, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u16	I will now finish, Mr President. And all this for what? To find out what we already knew, that is, between the PS, the PCP, the Left Block and the Greens there are differences of viewpoints, but to above all we know that the great rhetoric exercise that the PSD did throughout the year, when it said that the PS had radicalized in the morning and that in the afternoon the PS partners had anesthetized, after all it was false. Neither the PS radicalized nor the PS partners were anesthetized, each remaining in its identity and authenticity, and we learned that the PSD ceased to have convictions and votes simply because of small political games that do not, at least, pass from small "pirro joys". [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u17	That's going through you!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u18	You have the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, I begin by congratulating and congratulating Mr Prime Minister on this week putting on the Government's agenda an objective which I myself set out in 2015 in the framework of the reform of the euro area: the creation of a European monetary fund. As I have at that time been able to communicate to the European Council and the European Commission, it seems to me that the reform of the architecture of the euro area really requires instruments different from those we have been able to evolve so far. It is important that, together with greater standardization of debt management processes, there may also be an autonomous budgetary capacity which allows those with the most heavy legacies in Europe to make their economic recovery without being at the expense of convergence, which is, as you say, without being diverging from the European average, but betting on structural reforms which, at the same time with the responses to asymmetrical shocks, allow the European Union to keep alive the call that it is not only a destination of peace, but also prosperity. It seems to me that what Mr. Prime Minister said is halfway through this broader objective which I myself stated before the European Council. I think it was useful, in the same way as the greeting for adopting the same vision as I said at the time, that it could take that view further, so that an own budgetary capacity can also be included in the European monetary fund, which must be managed outside the assistance programmes, and the regularization of extraordinary situations. thus we can have a true counterpart to monetary policy and to the ECB ( European Central Bank ) that does not exist today. I therefore hope that the Prime Minister will be able to complete the ambitious framework which I also stated at the time as the objective of reforming economic and monetary union. But my compliments end here, Prime Minister. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u20	I thought I'd come here for another walk!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u21	I know that Members of the Socialist Party would prefer more praise, but as I am sensitive to the concerns of the Government and the Socialist Party regarding the PSD, I would like not to disappoint them in this fortnightly debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u22	V. Exa never disappoints!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u23	Mr. Prime Minister came to renew the fantasies with which he has ruled this almost year and a half. It's really a fantasy and an accountant. It's a fantasy, which, as I said, reversed the growth trajectory—after all, we have less liquid debt, which is what matters, employment is growing... it's a fantasy and it's a façade why?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u24	A fantasy? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u25	Because, truly, what matters is that the government has committed itself to reducing the country's gross public debt, because that's what we pay interest on, it's not just about the liquid. It is on the brute that deposits also pay interest, as it is evident that they also cost money. And it is important to recognize, once and for all, that the year 2015 had a positive contribution to the growth of 2016, not the reverse.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u26	Yes, he had a contribution to his fall!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u27	That is how it is written by the government itself, there is a positive carryover from 2015 to 2016. Therefore, it is a fantasy to say that we had been inverting the terrible trajectory of 2015 in 2016. On the contrary, 2016 benefited from 2015! [[Mr. P. João Galamba's laughs.]] Second fantasy: we managed to reconcile all this with a low deficit. Yesterday, we had the communication of what was the year 2016 in terms of public accounting. And we have come to realize, on the basis of the accounts, that if you have failed to do so, as the Prime Minister here announced in the last 15-year debate, not more than 2, 3 %, then the public accounts, in public accounts, which were shown yesterday, that are compatible with this objective, need to have the following reading: if, together with those accounts which were disclosed here, we take into account that the Government has cut anything like EUR 956 million into the investment it had planned, which was in the Budget but which was not met — such public investment in relation to which you came to say that "this year is going to be", it was in this way that you cut in such a way that there has not been any public investment number compared to it in recent decades — if we count on the 500 million euro in extraordinary cash from PERES (Special Change Reduction Plan) that you are going to be, Mr. [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] ... to consider that the deficit would be 3, 4 % of GDP. This would be the 2016 deficit, 3, 4 % of GDP,... [[Protests of PS Members.]] ... if we exclude the extraordinary measures I have announced and the planned investment cut you have made. [[PSD applause.]] This is the result of your policy! Conclusion : it's an account! It is a fact that we have positively consolidated accounts. Mr. Prime Minister, my question is this: since you have already closed your accounts in public accounts, are you in a position to tell the House what was the corrected budget balance of extraordinary measures of 2016, since that is what counts as the basis for what will be the year 2017? Mr Prime Minister, what was the corrected deficit of extraordinary measures? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u28	See that the accounts you made are also valid for 2015!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u29	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u30	Mr President, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, I hope that the agreement with the proposals we have put forward on the euro will continue and will not be amended if the proposals do not perhaps deserve the agreement of the Greens, the CFP or the Left Block. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u31	That's irrelevant. I said it's irrelevant!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u32	The honourable Member will have noticed that, as a whole of the proposals we have put forward, we have not only talked about the creation of a genuine European monetary fund, but also about the need for own budgetary capacity. We have not spoken now, I have spoken several times, and I have already pointed out that the great problem of the euro area is a congenital and structural problem. Monetary unions do not favor convergence, they accentuate asymmetries. This is known for a long time, and that is why all the preparatory reports of the euro, from the MacDougall report to the Delors report, signalled the need for the euro to function, to have its own budgetary capacity. This budgetary capacity did not exist and therefore the corrections of the asymmetries were disguised for several years at the expense of the illusion that we could all have the same low interest rate, which led to a wrong incentive for several economies to accumulate liabilities while other economies have accumulated credits. It was indeed a union of transfers, not from those who have the least, but a union of transfers from those who need the most, and that is why all the periphery has been indebted while the whole centre has been strengthened. If we want to have a solid euro, it is a euro that favours convergence rather than divergence. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I can see that the honourable Member, in his azedom with regard to the country's success, has rapidly adhered to the new doctrine of alternative events: that when unemployment decreases, after all, it increases; and when growth grows, after all, it declines; and when the deficit and debt declines, after all, it rises. I see that you have adhered to the doctrine of alternative facts, but not to the theory in which you must base the conception of policies, which is the reality of the facts, pure and hard, because that is what counts. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u33	So, what about the extraordinary revenues? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u34	Now, what we know is that for the first time, net debt has decreased and gross debt is only overwhelmed by the fact that it is still awaiting the capitalisation of the General Deposit Box, which was not made by itself when it was due to have done it, having left the Bank in the state in which it left it and with the need to now be able to be capitalized. But we will arrive at the end of the year not only with less net debt, but also with less gross debt and, above all, with a properly capitalised General Deposit Box and fulfilling its role in the national economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, secondly as regards growth, it is very simple: statistics deny your reading. [[Mr Duarte Filipe Marques's laughs.]] Throughout the second half of 2015, the economy has slowed down, since the beginning of 2016, growth has accelerated. It is enough to compare third quarters: in the third quarter of 2015, the economy grew 0, 1 % in chains ; in the third quarter of 2016, it grew 0, 8 % in chains, 1, 6 % in terms of counterparts, and it was the largest growth of the whole European Union. These are the pure and harsh realities and not the alternative facts in which your speech is based. You call into question the deficit. Let us be clear: the primary balance increased by EUR 747 million compared to 2015. It is not just the lowest deficit, nor is it just the lowest of the last 42 years, as it is not only the first time that you have achieved what you have not achieved, which has been in keeping with the rules of the European Union. It is not only comfortably below 2, 5 % that the European Commission had fixed and we have been at most at a comfortable 2, 3 %, but it is also remunerating wages, resting pensions, lowering the tax burden, improving social support, we have achieved a primary balance of EUR 747 million higher than what you had in 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the reality. It is that we have not only had better results, but we have had better results with a policy that is different from yours, a policy that has put people in front of everything and the satisfaction of their needs. [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] That is why we reject wages, reject pensions, reject social support, lower tax burden and achieve a better deficit than yours. That's what was demonstrated. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Furthermore, Mr President, do not talk about extraordinary measures, because what we have done in terms of debt collection is very different from what you have done. We did not forgive,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u35	... we created an opportunity for families and people to be able to pay in multi-annual benefits—multi-annual! — debts they had accumulated. But what impacted last year's deficit is much less than the impact of extraordinary expenditure, with a refund of EUR 900 million of the pillow that you created in 2015 with the overtax envelope, and we returned over EUR 900 million of reimbursements last year than what you had returned in the past. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Moreover, we also reduced late payments because last year we had less than EUR 400 million of late payments than you had and we had more than EUR 900 million of tax return expenditure that you had in your 2015 accounts. Mr President, I understand that it costs you, but once and for all it assumes that we have had better results and, above all, that we have had better results because we have had a better policy and a different policy than yours. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u36	Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u37	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, these discussions serve to give us a lot of consideration, but they also serve for the Government to answer the questions. And I asked Mr. Prime Minister a question and I look forward to the answer: what is the deficit, the balance of the public accounts in 2016, corrected by extraordinary measures? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u38	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u39	You don't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u40	Mr, the deficit we had is less than 2 %, 3 %, is comfortably less than 2 %, 5 % is less than 4 %, 4 %... [[PSD protests.]] ...and it is, above all, much less than the arithmetic impossibility invoked by the honourable Member and by his inspiring Dr. Maria Luís Albuquerque, who spent the year saying that we would not succeed. You may now want to decrease as you want the merit of the government's action, but one thing is certain: the merit is ours and the demerit is yours! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u41	Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u42	Mr. Prime Minister, answer the question I asked you, if you please! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u43	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u44	It's another round of billiards!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u45	Sir, you'll have the answer when the Devil gets here! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests, hitting hands on the tops of the benches.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u46	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, attention to furniture! Before I once again give the floor to Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, I would like to remind you. Ladies and gentlemen, the questions can always be asked and the respondents can answer as they want to or do not answer. The question is political. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u47	What a sadness! He's making a helper!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u48	Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, please proceed. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u49	You're helping Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u50	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the reality of the rudimentary facts. The conclusions of the response or non-response are political! [[PSD protests.]] Sir, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u51	Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, I am sure that Mr. Prime Minister does not need your help to show his ignorance. [[PSD applause.]] In good rigour, Mr. Prime Minister doesn't answer because he doesn't know. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u52	Nobody knows! Does the PSD know?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u53	But he speaks very easily of other things he doesn't know, and that's why he lives in a fantasy. [[PS protests.]] I will tell you again, Prime Minister : this result of 2016 is possible because you did exactly what you said you were not going to do. You cut the public investment you had planned at a level that no government in 50 years has done. You are today responsible for having hospitals that have no money to pay to suppliers, for having schools that can't open the doors,... [[PSD applause.]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u54	... having public services that are with a damaged quality of service because it has made definitive captives, i.e. cuts, and does not even have the courage to come to Parliament to tell where it has done them. That's what a fantasy is, Prime Minister! [[PS protests.]] And then, as you are upset with this objective way of unmasking, on the one hand, your fantasy and, on the other hand, demagogy and populism, you throw yourself to the PSD and then come here to do what should not be done in democracy, which is to try to say sayings about opponents, to lower the debate, something that is not well for a Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u55	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u56	I shall now conclude, Mr President. The Prime Minister should have been here yesterday in Parliament, not attacking the PSD, but demanding parties to support his government to honour his word in social dialogue. [[PSD applause.]] And what you are here to do is to hold the PSD accountable for the government not being able to keep its word. Mr. Prime Minister, let me tell you...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u57	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u58	I shall conclude, Mr President, by telling the Prime Minister the following: bear in mind that the PSD is in opposition not to make life easy for the government nor to replace the PCP or the Block when they fail it. In principle, I am counting on our opposition, which was where you put us.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u59	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u60	I'm really gonna finish it. When Mr. Prime Minister needs the PSD to negotiate something important, he asks first, if he pleases, that is what democratic humility requires. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u61	Where is your humility?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u62	Secondly, it does not cover the coherence and principles that you do not have. [[PSD applause, stand up, and CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u63	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u64	Mr President, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, one thing we have all realized: the country is successful and you are angry; social dialogue is successful and you are angry. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u65	You are simply angry with everything that goes well with the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] And what you do not realize is that the joy it brings to your bench is the disgust that gives all Portuguese workers who will benefit from the increase in the national minimum wage and who know that they do so against their will. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protests Pedro Passos Coelho.]] Mr. Deputies, stay calm! And it is also the disgust that gives all companies, who will pay less of a special payment on their account (PEC) and who will do so thanks to the government and the majority who support it and not thanks to you, because if so, they would continue to pay more than they always paid while they ruled. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Deputy actually lives in the fantasy realm... [[PSD laughter.]] And that's why...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u66	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u67	Mr President, I shall conclude on an equal basis with the time of Mr Pedro Passos Coelho. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u68	The Bureau determines, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u69	Mr. Member, respecting Mr. President, I will find an opportunity to respond to the rest, so I say only the following: the school that closed yesterday, the Alexandre Herculano school in Porto, was one of the 39 schools with open public competition awarded to Soares da Costa, whose work you cancelled and which could have been done in 2011. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u70	To put questions, Mrs Catarina Martins of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u71	Mr President, Prime Minister, the replacement of the reduction of the single social rate by reducing the special payment on account is an incentive for liquidity and investment rather than competition by the worst practices ; it is surely a bet on incentive to companies rather than incentive to low wages ; and it is a real consensus rather than an agreement by the employers themselves. So what we have done in this Parliament has been to put an end to the pilgrimage idea that the increase in the minimum wage should be compensated. That idea died — peace to your soul! [[Congratulations from BE.]] There is another conquest in this process. If we all think about it, we come to the conclusion of what we already knew: the government finds on its left the availability and ability to negotiate the solutions that the country needs. Let's leave the right hold on your labyrinth and let's go to the point of interest. Mr. Prime Minister, I just wanted to talk to you about the Alexandre Herculano school. This school closed yesterday because it rains inside the classrooms and today it is closed. at the end of last school year, the Left Block addressed a question to the Government alerting him to the situation of the Alexandre Herculano school and the Government replied that there was an investment plan for the 6 million Euro school. I had the opportunity to visit this school on December 2, and at that time nothing had been done, so we again warned the government about the imperative need to respond to the Alexandre Herculano school. I ask you, Prime Minister, how do we respond now. We cannot have this closed school, as we cannot have any degraded school in our country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u72	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u73	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, during the four years preceding this legislation, the investment declined to levels of 1984, at levels comparable to a moment prior to Portugal's entry into the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u74	And now the investment has grown? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u75	Many of the deficiencies we are experiencing today in the transport, health and education sectors are the result of this disinvestment. The case of the Alexandre Herculano school is, in fact, exemplary from this point of view, because the construction of works in that school was awarded in 2011 and was cancelled when Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho arrived at the government. There were 39 schools with works awarded that were cancelled and not replaced. Often, the PSD says : « The School Park was not a good model ».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u76	It was a party!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u77	It is debatable, certainly, as everything is debatable! But there is one thing that is right: if that was not a good model, neither did they introduce any alternative model. What the previous government did with regard to works in schools was the same as it did with regard to the New Opportunities: "with water was the boy" and neither the model nor the alternative model. So last year, with the few resources we had, we started to try to answer. Mrs Catarina Martins, as you know, this year the State budget provides for a 20% increase in public investment and much of it will be for schools, and one part will be conducted directly by the State and the other part will be in partnership with local authorities. And one of the cases covered is precisely that of Alexandre Herculano. We are therefore in a position to start with these works that will cover 200 schools throughout the country, and one of them is Alexandre Herculano. It will also be covered in the Conservatory, the Camões High School and the school that was not made in the Park of Nations, as in schools a little across the country. We're gonna do it, but we're not gonna do what we didn't do. We're going to do another way, except that it doesn't make up for the time that was lost for not being done at the moment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u78	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u79	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I know that one day we cannot erase all the destruction we have done, but we must also say that we have been too slow about public services. If today the government can conclude that restoring income was good for the economy and for the public accounts of the country, it will also have to have the courage to take on...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u80	It's not about courage, it's about money!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u81	... that public investment in public services is essential to ensure the basic conditions of our democracy, and schools are certainly the basis of it. And the Alexandre Herculano school can't wait any longer. Mr. Prime Minister, I bring you another subject on which we were surprised this week and which, having not passed on to the news, is of the greatest gravity, because we can stand before the first hole made in Portugal in high depth for the prospect of hydrocarbon oil. It never happened in Portugal. As you know, the former Government has set up an extensive plan to make holes a little across the country and the people have stood up against this possibility. We had more than 40 000 people participating in a public consultation so that they would stop making holes in the country that are dangerous and question the environment and the economy and we had all the authorities of the Alentejo coast and the Alentejo coast to stand up against the possibility of making holes in their sea. We know that a director-general of marine resources, even before leaving, issued a license that allows 60 days of operations, i.e., allows to carry out high depth holes in the sea, and for this it is only necessary to notify 10 days in advance. It's a process that no one understands. The President of Galp, who had the licence for this holding, had already given the process as dead by the end of 2016. Carlos Gomes da Silva said last July that Galp was unable to move forward because the concession ended at the end of 2016 and that in order to do something the concession had to be reviewed. However, the Government's commitment was not to revise the concession, the Government's commitment, in all cases where it was possible without costs and without litigation, was to reverse these contracts. In January 2017, it was the period when it could have ended with the possibility of drilling in the sea in Portugal. It is not a small thing: a hole like the one that can be made now in Aljezur caused 88 days of oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico. It is dangerous and it is not by chance that the people have stood up against these holes. The question I have to ask you, Prime Minister, is whether the government has reviewed the grant of Aljezur or whether Galp has given some information to the government that can explain the fact that it is now going to start drilling our coastline. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u82	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u83	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, I believe that a few weeks ago, I do not know whether the PAN or the Greens Ecological Party had the opportunity to answer this question precisely. at that time, I had the opportunity to say that the Government had appreciated the situation of the three concessions, that it had requested an opinion from the Attorney-General of the Republic and that the three situations were different. With regard to onshore, there were situations of non-compliance that allowed, purely and simply, to cancel the concession that had been made, and this concession was cancelled. Therefore, the concession that was on earth was eliminated and there will be no hole on earth. This means that that huge concession that had been granted and that covered a large part of the Algarve is cancelled. There were also two other offshore concessions, and one of them, for failure to comply with the concessionaire, had not been initiated the necessary procedures, had expired. The expiry of the licence has been declared and the concession has been withdrawn. Then, in relation to the third concession, there was no breach by the concessionaire and the delay was imputable not to the concessionaire but to the State. Therefore, just as under contractual terms we could revoke the other two concessions, in this case we had to maintain the concession. That's what happened. This was not an amendment to the concession, it was simply a contractual fulfillment of what was contracted. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u84	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u85	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is a mistake to allow these holes to be made and it is a mistake that we can pay dearly if there is an accident, as has happened too often and in other places on our planet. We do not want, in Portugal, the disasters we have witnessed a little around the world—for example, in the Gulf of Mexico. Mr Prime Minister, I say to you more: concessions which are made by outgoing directors-generals, public consultation procedures which, before they come to an end, already have the decision taken and companies which give closed proceedings and which suddenly find a way to reopen deserve at least that the government looks very well at this case, because we have no doubt that there is still a possibility to prevent the holes in Aljezur and that must be our commitment. [[Congratulations from BE.]] from this point of view, Prime Minister, and on environmental issues, there is another issue that has received a broad national consensus and in which the government has already taken a few steps but needs to take another definitive step. It was important — and the Left Block welcomes this initiative — that the Government has sent to the court the idea of the nuclear cemetery in Almaraz, but I remember that the requirement for the closure of the Almaraz nuclear power plant was unanimously approved in the Assembly of the Republic. We therefore await the time when the Portuguese Government with the Spanish Government puts the closure of the Almaraz nuclear power plant on the agenda. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PAN.]] But, Prime Minister, I wanted to address another issue very briefly, until it was news this week and I think we have room to take a few common steps. In fact, the Block, as you know, never gives up the possibility of taking these concrete steps in the name of people's lives. The price of housing in Lisbon increased by 37 % in three years, as you know, the rent increased by 40 %, people are being expelled from the city centre and they do not find housing. Assumption Cristas, when he was a minister, was very pleased to change the Urban Rent Scheme, attacked up to the supported income—see there—and with this made the housing prices impossible for the generality of the population, although now, apparently, he has forgotten it itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u86	I have revitalized the lease market and with great pride!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u87	We've made our way when we rekindled our supported income. So today, in social neighborhoods, there is a little more justice in the calculation of income.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u88	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u89	I will finish, Mr. President. The urban lease regime remains the same. The joint work we have done — the work that has been done with the Left Block, the Socialist Party and the Government — points to this priority: to review the urban lease regime, not only to end the waste shelf, but also to review the way the household income is calculated. Housing is a basic right of populations. Mr Prime Minister, the challenge I make to you is that we can open this process very soon. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u90	Do you want to keep watching the city collapse? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u91	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u92	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, we are well aware of the risks of the implementation of this concession and this licence. Therefore, the fact that it has been issued does not mean that we are uninterested, careless or little involved in monitoring and ensuring best practices in order to prevent the risks associated with this activity. The same can be said about the issue of Almaraz. I sincerely appreciate that there is good will and political commitment on the part of the Spanish Government to deal with the issue properly and I would not like to dramatize what I interpret as less communication between services as to the relationship we have maintained between the Spanish Government and the Portuguese Government. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs has already had the opportunity to say, the issue on Almaraz is, as a whole, on our agenda, both the extent to which it is currently in Community dispute with regard to the warehouse and the future of the nuclear power plant. This is a topic that is and will be present in the discussions between the Portuguese Government and the Spanish Government. With regard to housing, I follow your concern, indeed, I have expressed it over many years and have already had the opportunity to say that 2017 has to mark the launch of a new generation of housing policies. What Parliament did last year, and well, it was to correct a situation of injustice in the area of social housing. But housing needs are not exhausted in social housing. Today, there is a new problem for the middle class, to which we must respond, particularly for the new generations. this crisis has resulted in a paradigm shift that can be dramatic or virtuous regarding what happened in the last 40 years. For 40 years, access to housing sat in the new construction rather than in rehabilitation, in the purchase of their own house and not in the lease. A good virtuous cycle is access to housing based on rehabilitation and renting, but for this to be possible it is essential terms, especially in the center of cities, lease at affordable costs. On the other hand, a housing policy that allows the cities to be repopulated not only with tourists, not only with an affluent population, but also with the new generations, is absolutely critical to the future of our cities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u93	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u94	And when they often contrast the importance of tourism and the importance of housing, it is worth noting that one does not exist without the other, because what it values and gives today a differentiating value to tourism in port or Lisbon — and this is in all the investigations that are made to tourists — is the authenticity of the cities. And the authenticity of cities does not result only from their monumentality and heritage, based on their way of life. And the way of life depends on people, real people, real people, people who live here.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u95	Thank you very much, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u96	For this reason, affordable housing must be a priority of our public policies during this year of 2017 and beyond, because we need a new generation of housing policies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u97	To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Cristas of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u98	Mr President, Prime Minister, yesterday came out of the budget implementation data which revealed that the deficit dropped EUR 497 million and in all newspapers this issue appeared very prominently. But these data also revealed that the extraordinary and unrepeatable revenue of PERES ( Special State Debt Reduction Plan ) was EUR 512 million. Follow me and tell me if I'm thinking well, Prime Minister. Do I think it is right or not to say that without these EUR 512 million, there would have been no reduction in the deficit in absolute values? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u99	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u100	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, the overall effect of PERES was 0, 1 percentage point of GDP. You may compare the extraordinary revenue, but then you also have to compare the extraordinary expenditure. Now, there was a recipe that is not unrepeatable, because, contrary to what happened in previous years, PERES did not run out in 2016; on the contrary, we created the possibility of taxpayers paying in multi-annual benefits the debts they had. What we are doing — and I remember that there were debts that existed and would always be charged — is that these debts can be charged so that they don't throw families into insolvency, nor do they kill companies that can be viable if they have good payment conditions. She tells me: 'But it was 512 million who came in. » It's true! As they also came out — and these, yes, irrepetable — 900 million euros of reimbursement, which was the financial pillow that the Government of Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho created to emporate the revenue in 2015 and we, in 2016, had to make the refund that, in good time, we had not done in 2015. Therefore, if you compare an extraordinary revenue of EUR 500 million with an extraordinary expenditure of EUR 900 million, you must realize that the extraordinary was what we spent the most and not what we received the most. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u101	You have the floor, Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u102	Mr President, Prime Minister, my question was very simple: the deficit dropped EUR 497 million and the revenue collected in PERES was EUR 512 million. Remove the EUR 512 million and see whether or not there is a decrease in the deficit in nominal terms. This is very simple, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u103	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u104	Moreover, these EUR 500 million are not 0, 1 but 0, 3 percentage points of GDP and also adds that reimbursements, yes, are perfectly normal and ordinary. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u105	More, Prime Minister : if it is true that there have been more refunds, you are only giving reason to this side and to the previous majority, saying that, in fact, there has been an effective reduction in taxes in 2015,... [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u106	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u107	... because, when you fill in the good news that you have to repay more — and in this House you said that you have repaid more EUR 500 million to families — that means we have the effect of tax relief there and we have the effect, in particular, of the family quota.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u108	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u109	We have this effect that you, at every moment, stumbles to use now to one side or another, but that is undeniable. There were more refunds, yes, sir, because we lowered the taxes. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u110	It's a lie! Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u111	Mr. Prime Minister, I know you won't answer this. The account is so simple and Mr. Prime Minister was so incapable of resolving that I will not insist on this point and will move on to the next one. My second point has to do with debt. Mr. Prime Minister likes to say that the net debt has dropped. If you know what the net debt is, you have to know what the gross debt is, because we do not know and I would like you to tell us. You know why? in the 2016 State Budget report, it said that at the end of 2016 debt would be 124 % of GDP. Then, in the 2017 State Budget report, he said it was going to be 128 % of GDP. We know that close to the end of the year debt was 133 %, i.e. the second highest debt in the European Union, and with very high interest rates and rising, as happened with the issuance of 10 years to 4, 2 %. Repeat, 4, 2 %. So I ask: What is the value of our debt at the moment? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u112	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u113	Mr President, Mrs Cristas, you are right: reimbursements are normal;... [[Ah...!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u114	...what wasn't normal was the gentlemen in 2015 retained the reimbursements that were due in 2015...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u115	It's nothing like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u116	...to have a fake recipe in this year to cover up the bad 2015 deficit and we had to make the refunds that you didn't do in 2016. That wasn't normal! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protests Pedro Passos Coelho.]] That wasn't normal! Mrs. Member, it is not worth continuing to want to be the bean of the zanga and the fury of Dr. Pedro Passos Rabbit. Know, once and for all, that what you have to do is "wash your hands" and turn away as far as possible from this inheritance, which only gets bad and from which you have nothing to be proud of. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Regarding last year, as you know, what was planned in the State budget was an increase in the deficit by EUR 840 million and what was a decrease of EUR 460 million,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u117	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u118	... which means that it was 1300 million less than what was planned. This is the result worth considering, and this is due to management. Now, you say: "If they had spent more and charged less, the deficit was smaller. » Of course! But the deficit is precisely what results from the balance between revenue and expenditure. That of spending less and charge well,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u119	What they did is unsustainable!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u120	... means ruling. What we did was reduce the tax burden on work, reduce the tax burden on companies and have a fairer tax burden, which does not impose on everyone but only on those who have certain expenses. And more: we did it - we restate the income of families in order, in pensions, in social support. That is why, with a different and better policy, we had a different and better result than the one you had in the previous year. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u121	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u122	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, what Mr Prime Minister cannot answer is how the great responsibility for last year's budgetary implementation relates to the increase in revenue. With so many tax reductions that you are presenting, where is the increase in revenue?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u123	So how do social contributions grow 5%? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u124	Why did the recipe increase? It was not because of the growth of the economy that this is anemic. And on the values that I have presented to you, Mr. Prime Minister, remains unanswered. But I would like to insist on the debt question, because once again you did not answer me. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u125	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u126	Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Member for the opportunity to repeat again: for the first time, net debt dropped by 1 percentage point, from 121 % to 120 % of GDP. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u127	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u128	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I am indeed amazed. You do not want to provide information to this House. The question is very simple: what is the public debt of our country at the moment?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u129	It's Banco de Portugal who's after her!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u130	If you don't answer it is because you certainly think the subject is irrelevant. But the subject is not irrelevant. Look at the interest in debt, look at your partners who say yes, day does not talk about debt restructuring and tell me that this is irrelevant from the point of view of the perception of the country's risk and, if possible, how much the public debt of Portugal is at the moment.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u131	It's Banco de Portugal who's after her!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u132	Is it 130%? Is it 133%? Is that 128 percent? How much? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u133	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u134	Mr. President, Mrs. Member, the statistics are known...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u135	They're not!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u136	...and therefore do not ask rhetorical questions, whose answer you know. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] What is not acceptable is the honourable Member saying that a government that has committed itself and has managed to reduce by 1 percentage point the net debt does not give any importance to the issue of debt.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u137	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u138	In fact, we have said and repeated that we not only pay attention to how we act as a result, reducing debt and reducing the deficit, so as not to continue increasing the debt,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u139	That's falsehood!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u140	... and, moreover, having proper debt management in order to ensure the financing needs and seeking to have the lowest possible cost with this funding—that is how we will continue— and achieving what, unfortunately, others have not achieved in the past. And not only does the net debt decrease as the gross debt decreases as well. When we arrive at the end of the year, I am sure that next year you will be less willing to question me about the debt than you feel right now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u141	I hope so!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u142	It is not worth insisting on the same subject that he insisted over the past year, in which he spent the time asking me about plan b, additional measures and then we arrived at the end of the year and, without plan b and without additional measures,... [[CDS-PP and PSD protests.]] ... we have a better deficit of the last 42 years and, above all, we have a better deficit than the one Mrs. Deputies had in the government chaired by Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho, in which Mrs. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u143	You still have the floor to Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u144	Mr President, Prime Minister, I should like to say that, after your reply, I am leaving this debate even more concerned.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u145	Well? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u146	You know why? Because I see a Prime Minister who does not even have the courage to say in this House the number — which is not yet known to the general public, because if I were here to show him — the debt at the end of 2016. This means that, for you, the issue of debt is not relevant, and this shows a lot of lack of memory and a lot of lack of critical capacity. In fact, what you have never been able to do, which was a critical review and analysis of what was the Socrates government, which led us to bankruptcy. And that leaves me a lot, but a lot, worried. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] Mr. Prime Minister, let me move on to the issue of late payments. It is because I have heard — indeed, I have listened in disbelief — Mr Prime Minister said that the late payments had decreased. It's true they've decreased. Do you know where they've fallen? In all that he did not have to do with you, i.e. in local administrations and regional administrations,... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u147	... because in the central administration, in what is to be done with you, late payments increased by 100 million, and this data I can present to them because they contained the budget implementation, of which we were aware yesterday. And you know, of these late payments, where is the big problem, Prime Minister? I'm going to tell you, because you probably don't know: it's in health. The Minister of Health came to this Parliament and told us that everything was going to be very good, it was going to be wonderful, but it is not: late payments increased 93 million compared to last year. And worse: they have increased at a time when the degradation of health service is too obvious. So I wanted to ask you what you have to say about this. Every day there is news that shows the degradation of the health service and we continue to have late payments in health than those that existed 1 year ago. What do you tell me about this? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u148	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u149	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, your speech is very simple: the deficit has fallen and you do not like it; the primary balance has increased and you do not like it; the net public debt has decreased and you do not like it; you are unhappy. [[CDS-PP protests.]] I say only this: I am glad that she is a candidate for the City Hall of Lisbon because she can now verify, knowing better, how I have been concerned about the issue of debt for many years and always with great success. What I did in the House is what I'm going to do now. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u150	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u151	Mr President, Prime Minister, if there is anything here today that you do not want to answer the questions I have asked you,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u152	It's not new!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u153	...because you don't know or why you don't care. On debt, he does not answer; on late payment, he said something that is a lie and now he has not corrected — he has an obligation to correct — on improvements in the country in general, everything is very good, but on concrete questions I ask him, particularly in the area of health — and I have gone to visit hospitals — nothing. Therefore, Mr. Prime Minister wants to paint a country that does not exist. But let me talk about one more question, about accounts and numbers. Do you know what was the decrease in public investment last year, made by your government, which put us, according to the Council of Public Finance, at 20 years ago? I am going to give you the two data that are public, those I know: what came out yesterday in public accounts reveals a cut of 11, 8 % and what came out a few days ago in national accounts — INE data — reveals a cut of 24, 8 % in the first month of the year.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u154	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u155	I'll be done, Mr. President. I believe that 24, 8 % or less 11, 8 % or less are extraordinarily bad numbers for you to pronounce on them.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u157	Already, as regards debts, Mr. Prime Minister, I should not even mention the City Council of Lisbon because we know very well how the House's debt has dropped. It was through an agreement with the airport that allowed you to make that shine. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u158	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u159	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, about the airport, what I know is the extraordinary revenue your Government has had to reduce the deficit this year with the sale it has made from the airport.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u160	And that's what lowered the House's debt!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u161	This is what I know of extraordinary airport revenue. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] They're so upset today! But I get it. It must be very frustrating, even very frustrating, to spend a year saying that everything will go wrong, that plan b will be needed, that additional measures will be required, that the European Commission will fall,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u162	Answer the questions!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u163	...that the devil comes there, that all horrors will happen and then arrive at the end of the year and see that, after all, employment has increased and unemployment has decreased, that growth is, today, robust,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u164	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u165	... contrary to what happened earlier, that private investment has increased, that public investment will increase, that exports are growing,... [[CDS-PP protests.]] ...that the deficit has dropped, that the debt has dropped, that the primary balance has increased...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u166	Thank you very much, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u167	Mrs. Member, I understand that it must be very unpleasant and very irritating, but if you will allow me some advice...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u168	Quick advice, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u169	It is a very quick advice, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u170	I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u171	Mrs Christian Assumption, the advice I give you is this: be a firm and positive opposition and not a useless and negative opposition that others make. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u172	There's no patience! Answer the questions is not!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u173	To put questions, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa from the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u174	Mr President, Prime Minister, on the question of reducing TSU ( single social rate ), we are now trying to learn about the issue of special payment by account (ECP)... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that influenced by the tone of anger, anger, your leader is very nervous. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u175	You're all scratching! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u176	They're really nervous! But I said that the question of the CFP, a special payment on its own, will be placed, in terms of incentives, on micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and I believe that the central problem is in knowing what the universe of these incentives are going to be received, in a way, in the 2017 State Budget. On the initiative and proposal of the CFP, this issue of the amount and universality of this measure I believe is important and will certainly have our proposals. However, now that the PSD and CDS benches have settled down, it means the following: it is not by saying a lie often that this becomes true. It was said here by Mr Passos Coelho that the CFP did not honour the word given on the question of TSU. Who did not take his word into account and his position of years was the PSD! [[PCP, Os Verdes and PS Members applauded.]] I would like to ask whether in the PS/PCP Joint Position, in the established dialogue, there has ever been a commitment of the PCP to abdicate the refusal to reduce the TSU. We have differences, we have differences, and that was one of them. Therefore, a lie that is often said is not true. [[PCP applause.]] But let's go to more serious things. One of the most negative and significant social consequences of the policy carried out in recent years was the spread, at unacceptable levels, of the scourge of work precariousness. It is the constitutional text itself which enshrines the right to work as a fundamental principle, and it is the responsibility of the State to promote policies that guarantee employment security. Therefore, today, we see that it is the State itself, often stimulating and promoting precariousness using the most diverse forms, from green receipts to term contracts, going through the stages, by hiring workers through temporary work companies, as happens, for example, in the area of health or in schools, in which there are people hired at the time, poorly paid and without preparation. There are thousands of workers who provide public service in the administration of the State who have been having precarious ties for several years. We have put forward proposals to solve or respond to this situation. In the 2016 State Budget, the Government entered the intention to initiate the lifting of the situations in the Public Administration and re-entered the same intention in the 2017 State Budget. After another year and taking the opening of the spot competitions at central government level, what is the situation of this survey? When will the opening of competitive processes, which, on the one hand, provide the human resources necessary for the provision of public service and, on the other hand, actually open a road to combating precariousness? When are measures prohibiting and restricting private companies from using this unacceptable form of exploitation covered by existing legislation, including internships, State compensation to employ young people seeking first employment? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u177	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u178	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, starting at the end, which is most relevant, I will say the following: the fight against precariousness is a priority for us. Firstly, because it is a matter of human dignity and, secondly, because it is also a condition for having a model of development based not on low wages and the destruction of rights but, on the contrary, on the qualifications of people, on their creative capacity and on their capacity to produce. In this regard, the State must be exemplary. next week, we will have completed — and it will be public — the report, but also a set of measures to respond to this scourge. We have already taken important steps, particularly with regard to changing active employment policies, precisely so that young people are not treated in this way, i.e. through the stages that are converted into forms of work precariousness, and we have steps — in fact, the subject under discussion in this House — as regards scientific employment. We have had a very difficult negotiation with the trade union structures — which are not completed — on the issue of precariousness in the teaching sector and we already have the assurance that there will be an immediate integration of 3000 teachers who are in a precarious situation and, in September, the opening of a competition according to the specific needs of each school, which will allow the integration of more than 2,000 teachers. It is a process that we are following and we must continue to pay more attention to. We therefore want to continue this work and do it together. However, I do not want to fail to answer the question you have put to me either. in this debate on the single social rate, no one in these benches has been deceived or deceived. The position of the Government and the PS was known, the position of The Greens was known, the position of the Left Block was known, the position of the CFP. None of us were surprised by the position of others. We've all known her for many years. What was new was the reel, as you very well designated, that the PSD decided to give, now disclosing everything you said in the past.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u179	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u180	But even I would say the following: the most serious is not to expose what I said in the past, because not only does everyone have the right to, I would say, the duty to, having been wrong in the past, correct their position today and for the future. The problem is that the PSD has not corrected its position. The PSD masked its position because, running away from the truth in full debate—and then Mr Montenegro confirmed it on television—they were not really against the fall of the TSU, but they were against the increase in the national minimum wage, which they considered excessive. of that, yes, they were still against! [[P.S.'s applause.]] So it was a doll, but it wasn't a doll in its convictions. It was an opportunistic reel, simply to try to create a political intrigue without, with this, taking up its true position. The true position of the PSD is only one: neither wages rise nor taxes for companies fall and, on the contrary, we would continue with the austerity of wage cuts, impoverishment, crushing and asphyxiation of the tax burden. That, yes, is the true policy of the PSD, the policy that they would really like us to pursue, but that we together will not continue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u181	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u182	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, it is indeed very difficult for the PSD to transform itself, particularly when it comes to wages rights, into labour law. [[PSD protests.]] We heard clearly saying: “Don’t count on the PSD to reverse the evils that are contained in the law today. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” This should be lesson and teaching, because we cannot count on the PSD to lead to the increase in the replacement of workers' rights and incomes, in this situation as in others.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u183	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, I ask you to interrupt a little. There are many Members standing, talking and so I have to ask them to sit down or leave. [[Pause.]] Please proceed, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u184	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you a question which I have already raised to you in a fortnight debate, which is the unacceptable situation in the TTCs and postal public service. at that time, we called attention to a set of problems that are infernifying populations, users, mail workers. at that time, we called attention to degradation in mail distribution, which had reached unacceptable levels — letters and orders remain days or up to weeks on end at distribution centers waiting to be delivered. But now, Prime Minister, there is a novelty: postal vouchers, retirement pensions arrive with several days' delay and there are endless queues of waiting at stations where CTT workers are placed in other areas and services than mail. Imagine, Mr. Prime Minister, the drama of a reformed man who is waiting for his pension to solve pressing problems, often dramatic, get to the station and tell him that the box has no money. So we think there is a need for more decisive action...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u185	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u186	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I was saying, we believe that more decisive action is needed, not just a service relationship, to ensure the quality of a public service which, with privatization, is increasingly deteriorating. Something needs to be done about this unsustainable situation. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u187	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u188	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, in fact 21% of pensioners continue to receive their pension by postal voucher and any delay is absolutely unacceptable. But this delay is not due to Social Security, which has been credited to the CTT account in time and time, all the money needed. The Ministry of Social Security has already met with the CTTs and the CTTs have committed themselves to taking action. And I hope that ANACOM, which has already confirmed the existence of these delays and complaints, will do so in accordance with its powers, so that once and for all this will not happen again, because this degradation of the service is absolutely unacceptable in such a sensitive and essential matter for the day-to-day reformed people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u189	To put your questions, you now have the floor of Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u190	Mr President, Prime Minister, The Greens consider it worth preventing the fall of the single social rate ( TSU ) because it was in fact a very unfair measure. And we do not consider that the reduction of the special payment on account (ECP) aims to replace this measure, and much less that it is a compensation for the increase in the national minimum wage, yet, until we always defend the reduction of the CFP and its elimination, we welcome this important signal from the Government, which reveals, above all, concern with micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and also with the economic dynamics of the country. But let's go to the questions. Prime Minister, the government announced EUR 18 million to finance the productivity of eucalyptus crops. Now, we believe that what would be important was to generate greater productivity and encourage the native species of our country, and not the eucalyptus, thus creating a more forest resistant to forest fires. In addition, that amount for the eucalyptus will, in practice, be financing the large celluloses, which already have enough profits to make their own investment projects. As you know, Prime Minister, The Greens and the Socialist Party have been working to prevent the continuation of the expansion of the Eucalyptus area, which was indeed taking account of our forests. And it does not seem to us that these ways of supporting the eucalyptal are created. Therefore, Prime Minister, I would like you to speak on this matter. The Spanish Government has, as you know, completely rejected Portugal by ignoring our country as to the cross-border impacts of the construction of a nuclear waste warehouse, which aims to prolong the operation of the Almaraz nuclear power plant. The diplomatic incident and the seriousness of the situation are therefore worrying, Mr Prime Minister, what I ask you is this: in addition to the difficulties that have been unleashed by the Minister of the Environment, I would like to know whether Mr Prime Minister does not consider that it would also be appropriate for the Head of Government to be able to exert some pressure to ensure that the security of our territory, the environment and the populations are assured, with the defence of the closure of the nuclear power plant in Almaraz. [[PAN's applause.]] Finally, Mr Prime Minister, when we talk about public transport, we are talking about an absolutely decisive element in combating climate change and also the need to respond to the commitments we have made on this matter at the international level, especially with the announcement made by Mr Prime Minister during the Marrakesh COP. Exactly because of this, the Greens consider that investment in public transport should be of absolute priority. We know that the problem is not now—just see how the previous government, the PSD and the CDS, has left public transport when it has abandoned power—but today public transport continues to provide a service that is far from responding to the needs of users, which means that we are driving people away from the use of public transport. So, so, certainly, let's not go there! We know it's not easy, and things don't work out one day, but...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u191	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u192	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, we know that it is not easy, nor do things resolve overnight, but since the Government has made a commitment to make a strong investment in public transport, the Greens consider that the time has come for Mr Prime Minister to be able to make a balance of that commitment and the degree of its implementation. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u193	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u194	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, first of all, I thank you for your questions. For the eucalyptus, as you know, at the end of this month, the public discussion of the 'package' on forests, which provides for the limitation of the enlargement of the area, is concluded. And the limitation of the extension of the area of eucalyptus plantation is justified, in addition to all else, because the targets that were already planned, according to the National Forest Strategy, and which were the ones that we had reached, in 2030, about 812 000 ha, have already been achieved. So it doesn't make any sense to extend this area. What makes sense, yes, is to be able to improve productivity in the already planted area. And we need to have the following notion: we will invest in the forest 500 million euros, which means that the EUR 18 million that will be invested in improving the productivity of the eucalyptus is a small portion of the global investment volume we have for the forest sector, which, I repeat, is EUR 500 million and within which indigenous species will be privileged, not only because of their environmental quality but also because of their contribution to the national economy and to a better orderly and more resilient forest, particularly forest fires. Secondly, we — the whole government — accompany the issue of Almaraz. I myself have done, I will do and I will continue to do what I have to do in this matter. It may not be public, but I do what I have to do, and I will continue, because I think we should act in a way that best protects the national interest. Climate change is the biggest challenge we have in the coming decades, indeed, is a challenge for the whole of humanity, and this is, in particular, a paradigm shift in transport and a great investment in public transport. That is why we have made a reorientation of transport policy. The first fundamental measure, the framework of which few people have understood, is: for the first time, the protection of urban public transport has emerged from the Ministries of Public Works or Equipment to be placed in the Ministry of the Environment, because urban public transport is precisely an essential tool of urban environment policy and essential for the better management of the climate change dossier. Thirdly, at the moment we have planned investments of EUR 30 million in the Lisbon metro to recover the damage suffered over four years of de-investment, beginning, in particular, with enlargement and works at the Arroios station, which is essential for the green line to have six compositions again. This work will start by next February. at this moment, in the metro of Porto, the station of Modivas is already in works. on the next day 7, the Minister will present, together with the Port Metropolitan Area, the expansion plan of the Porto Metropolitan Network. As for the Lisbon metro, it is already assumed the expansion of the connection of Rat stations to the Sodré Street, in order to close the central circle.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u195	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u196	In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that there will be two very important investments in fleet renewal with EUR 60 million mobilized to support both Carris and STCP in the overall acquisition of 400 new electric or natural gas buses to reduce their environmental impact.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u197	You must conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u198	I shall now conclude, Mr President. EUR 8 million will be mobilised to support the entire public transport system in the rest of the country, precisely with the same objective, so that support is not exhausted in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto, but can have truly national coverage from the Transport Fund and the Environmental Fund. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u199	To put your questions, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u200	Mr President, Prime Minister, the Government announced that it would present, in October last year, the National Strategy for Biological Agriculture, which had a strong contribution from the NAP. However, the presentation was postponed for Christmas, the Kings have already passed, we are almost at Carnival and we would like to know when this plan will be presented, which has been defined, and very well, by the government as priority. Mr. Prime Minister, we cannot postpone or ignore this row so important to the economy, whose low national production cannot follow the growing demand, which reflects increasingly changing consciousness and consumption habits in Portugal. So, Prime Minister, when is the presentation of this Strategy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u201	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u202	Mr President, Mr André Silva, at the moment the plan is concluded, it is under evaluation by Mr Minister, who will also meet with the services for the evaluation of the whole plan which has been presented and which is developed in three fundamental axes and in 60 measures, namely the axis of production, the axis of promotion and markets and the axis of training, education, research, experimentation and demonstration. This plan is now moving to the stage of assessing its viability both from a technical point of view and from a financial point of view. The timetable currently set by the Minister provides for the national strategy to be presented publicly in March.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u203	Mr André Silva has the floor, too.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u204	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, even with regard to the situation in Almaraz, it is revolting to see the joy of the Government and the Spanish Minister of the Environment with our Ministers and our Government. It is revolting to witness Spain's disrespect for the Portuguese and our natural values. And it is incomprehensible to watch the Portuguese Government's passivity in this matter. Mr Prime Minister, making only one complaint to the European Commission about the serious violations of the Spanish State is little. This denunciation is only and only a mere administrative act relieving conscience, because we know that when we are truly committed, we can find forces at the most unlikely places. The Portuguese Government must demonstrate more determination. Don't be afraid, Prime Minister! We must seek international allies, in all instances, to push the Spanish Government back. And, in this coalition of efforts, already this morning, the NAP made another contribution to closing Almaraz and presented two complaints to the secretariats of the Espoo and Aarhus Conventions at the United Nations. The country and the Portuguese hope that the Government will unequivocally defend them, but for that, Prime Minister, there must be a compromise on your part.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u205	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u206	I shall conclude, Mr President. We citizens are doing what we can. And the government, Prime Minister? Will you or will you not join forces and strive to shut down the Almaraz nuclear power plant?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u207	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u208	Mr President, Mr André Silva, the government does, as it is responsible, the defence of the national interest, and does so in its own way, i.e. through diplomatic channels, with discretion or publicity, depending on the circumstances that are more appropriate. The complaint is not merely a formality, the complaint is the activation of the legal remedies available to us not only for its assessment by the European Commission, but also for its possible assessment by the Court of Justice of the European Union, if that is justified. I believe that from a diplomatic point of view, on the contrary, the conditions for continuing this dialogue are not exhausted in a manner favourable to the interests of Portugal, either with regard to the warehouse or with regard to the continuity of operation of our plant. I do not share with you the assessment of the Spanish Government's intention and, above all, of the intention of the Spanish Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u209	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u210	I do not believe that it corresponds to reality and I believe that what has happened has another explanation, that it does not excuse us, does not stop us, does not discourage us from submitting the complaint that we should present, but that it must determine us to continue this divergence on our own, so that we can have the best possible result for the national interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u211	We have thus reached the end of the 15-year debate with Mr Prime Minister. the following point in our agenda are the following motions for resolutions: paragraph 35 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and Montenegro to Avoid Double Taxation and Prevent Tax Evasion in Income Tax Matters, signed in Lisbon on 12 July 2016 ; No 36 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Protocol, signed on 14 January 1971, amending the Convention between Portugal and France to Avoid Double Taxation and Establish Rules of Mutual Administrative Assistance in Income Tax Matters, signed on 25 August 2016 ; No 38 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Defence Cooperation Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Islamic Republic of Mauritania, signed in Nouakchott, on 21 October 2010 ; No. 39 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Ibero-American Cinematographic Integration Convention adopted in Caracas on 11 November 1989 ; No 40 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the Amending Protocol to the Ibero-American Cinematographic Integration Convention, adopted in Córdoba, Kingdom of Spain, on 28 November 2007 ; No 41 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Latin American Agreement on Cinematographic Co-production adopted in Caracas on 11 November 1989 ; and No 42/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Amending Protocol to the Latin American Cinematic Co-production Agreement signed in Bogotá on 14 July 2006. For these motions for resolutions no time has been given, and they will therefore be voted on during the voting period, to which we shall now begin. Let us first check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot do so will have to signal to the Bureau and then make the presence, so that their presence at the meeting is considered. [[Pause.]] The electronic framework records 212 meetings, to which Mr Luís Testa adds, representing 213 Members, so we have quorum to vote. Let us begin by voting No 204 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Despite the death of Prof. Mário Ruivo ( President of RA, PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes and PAN ), which is of the following content: « It is with deep regret that the Assembly of the Republic marks the death of Professor Mário Ruivo. Your memory will continue, by the great example of democratic citizenship and by the impressive legacy that leaves us in the area of the environment. Born in Campo Maior, in 1927, Mário Ruivo was from early on an anti-fascist prominent, exercising several relevant positions in the government after 25 April 1974. He was, for example, Secretary of State for Fisheries and Minister for Foreign Affairs during the provisional governments. Graduated in Biology from the University of Lisboa, he later PhDed in Biological Oceanography and Living Resources Management from the University of Paris — Sorbonne. Professor Mário Ruivo was a renowned scientist and one of the pioneers in protecting the oceans and in launching environmental policies in Portugal. in this quality was called to perform high international positions. His name will be indelibly linked to the National Council for the Environment and Sustainable Development, that he was a founder and that he was its President. in the memory of everyone is also his role in Expo 98, dedicated to the theme of the oceans, or collaboration with Mário Soares in the World Independent Commission for the Oceans, resulting from the report O Oceano : Our Future. Its personal, academic and professional journey was rightly recognised by the European Parliament with the 2015 European Citizens'Prize, highlighting among others the key role it played in coordinating the World Independent Oceans Commission. The innovative vision, the fight against the citizen and the deep knowledge of Professor Mário Ruivo contributed to generating understandings and unions around environmental matters and, in particular, the sea, consensually considered a national strategic asset. He was currently the chairman of the Portuguese Committee of the Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission of UNESCO. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic notes with sadness its death, conveying its sorrow to family and friends, while publicly recognizing the generous collaboration that Professor Mário Ruivo has always given to Parliament. Do not keep on seeking. ” The Government has informed the Bureau that it is also associated with this vote. Mr Pedro Soares, Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u212	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In April last year we received in the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing Prof. Mário Ruivo, as President of the National Council for the Environment and Sustainable Development ( CNADS ). We know perfectly well who Prof. Mário Ruivo was and how important his thoughts and actions were in environmental matters at national and international level, with decisive contributions in the area of oceanography and the policies of the sea, being an inspiration for generations of researchers and environmentalists. however, it was the first time we had the opportunity to meet personally, and it was with much expectation that we held the meeting. The proposal presented to us by Prof. Mário Ruivo was very simple: in view of the seriousness of the problems that climate change poses, in the words of Prof. Mário Ruivo it had to be democracy to respond to the multiple challenges generated by the anthropocene. With a very vivid look, despite some physical weaknesses, Prof. Mário Ruivo, with a meridian clarity in arguments and objectives, argued that the connection between the CNADS and the Assembly of the Republic should be narrowed. in the opening of the first joint initiative of the Assembly of the Republic with the CNADS on the COP21 and the Paris Agreement, Prof. Mário Ruivo left no room for doubts about what needed to be done, stating, in a very peculiar way, « the ideas must be uncapsulated. Do not keep on seeking. ” It considered that research and knowledge produced around climate change and its effects made the process of global warming evident based on human activity. But what Prof. Mário Ruivo's restless and strategic spirit has left us is that it is not enough to have scientific knowledge about the phenomenon and the perception of its devastating effects, it is essential to communicate, it is essential to involve citizens, to decapaculate ideas, to put democracy to respond to climate challenges. Thank you, Prof. Mário Ruivo. [[General applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u213	Mr Pedro Soares spoke on behalf of the Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing. There seems to be other ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who want to intervene. First of all, Mr João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u214	Mr President, in fact, it is not customary to have speeches about the vows of regret. Mrs. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We would also like to have had the opportunity to prepare an intervention on this regret vote, because, of course, on the part of the CFP, we would not want to fail to take the opportunity to signal not only the course but the civic and political attitude of Prof. Mário Ruivo and the legacy and the example he leaves us, not only in his civic and political intervention but also in opening up intervention horizons for young generations in relation to not only social but also more global problems, especially environmental issues. With this short reference, the PCP Parliamentary Group is associated with the death of Prof. Mário Ruivo. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u215	You have the same word, Mrs Berta Cabral.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u216	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would also like to associate myself with this vote on this occasion and to subscribe to the words of the Chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, which I believe will have spoken on behalf of all the Members of that Committee. I would therefore like on behalf of the Commission, and also on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, to pay tribute to Prof. Mário Ruivo, who was, as we all know, a renowned scientist linked to the oceans. His name will be indelibly marked in the history of our country by all his professional and scientific achievements, as a researcher linked to the oceans and now also linked to the National Council for the Environment and Sustainable Development, of which he was President. Recently we had the honour of having with us an initiative organized by the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing. I therefore leave here our word of congratulation for the presentation of this vote and our regret for its death. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u217	Mr Joaquim Barreto of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u218	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is up to me, as Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, to also mention the figure of the scientist and exemplary citizen Mário Ruivo. To speak of him is to remember his visionary personality and recognize his restless mind, always seeking more knowledge, that would give us knowledge of what he considered the most well - kept treasure of the earth — the oceans. Mário Ruivo had a full life dedicated to public service. He stood up, still young, against the injustices of fascism and, after 25 April, already a teacher and an ideologist, he held various positions in the State, of which I stress the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Secretary of State for Fisheries. In Portugal, its leadership in the National Council for the Environment and Sustainable Development was a guarantee of continuous scientific demand and critical follow-up of initiatives, public and private, with an impact on the environment and the territory. His presence at the Expo 98 was decisive, that of the man who always fought to put the sea in the public sphere. It helped us to have a holistic vision of the oceans. As President of the National Council for the Environment and Sustainable Development, he has always been ready and successful in working with the Assembly of the Republic, also through the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, which I want to highlight and enhance at this moment of regret. As a representative of the Portuguese municipalities at CNADS, I had the privilege of knowing closely the good, affable man, of convictions, values and principles, a defender of public causes, a promoter of consensus, who prestigious this institution. A friend died, ocean ambassador, environmental defender, a man free but fully committed to a better world. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u219	Mrs Cristas of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u220	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at this time, and since all the benches used the word, I could not fail to associate the CDS-PP and associate myself with this vote in my personal capacity, because I have had the pleasure and opportunity to live closely with Prof. Mário Ruivo for four and a half years, first as Minister of Agriculture, the Sea, the Environment and the Planning of the Territory and then as Minister of Agriculture and the Sea for the sake of his commitment, his passion for the ocean, his overall vision and his willingness to seek bridges, consensus, for what it is, and it can be, a view of the Country and a position of Portugal at global level. Also at the National Council for the Environment and Sustainable Development I observed its continuing concern in creating consensus and in producing opinions that could be subscribed by all, with a spirit of great openness and great dialogue. Therefore, the CDS, regardless of the political differences that we will certainly have had throughout history with Prof. Mário Ruivo, considers it fair to recognize and underline the role it has played until the last day of its life in favor of a more blue and more present country in the world. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u221	Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u222	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think talking about Mário Ruivo is talking about someone who was very easy to admire. It is fair to acknowledge how much, through the Academy, and also through its citizenship, it has given society with regard to environmental issues in general, but also matters related to the sea and the oceans in particular. He has left us a legacy that will surely take account of this and the next generations. As has already been mentioned on climate change, we had the opportunity to take part in a conference organised by the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, but many of the contributions it has made on this matter. As long as he lived, we had the opportunity to personally express the esteem we had for him. Now, at this hour, of course, we express our sorrow to the family and the great respect we have and have for this man. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes, the PCP and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u223	Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on vote No 204 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — In spite of the death of Prof. Mário Ruivo. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following vote: No 202 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — In spite of the death of Isidro Baldenegro ( PAN ). I ask Secretary Sandra Pontedeira to proceed to your reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u224	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The death of Isidro Baldenegro, activist and community leader of the indigenous people of Tarahumara in Mexico, was a sad news for those who work daily to implement the principles of deep ecology and for the global defense of social and human rights. Isidro Baldenegro was murdered on 15 January 2017, shortly after having received the so prestigious Goldman Environmental Prize for the fight against the illegal slaughter of trees in the mountains of Sierra Madre. His work, which consisted largely of the organization of peaceful protests, helped for decades to protect the forests and territories of the community he was leading, whose devastation has served mostly intensive agricultural production, particularly through the monoculture of transgenic soybeans for livestock feeding. Baldenegro's murder reinforces the danger that environmentalists are exposed to a little around the world, and especially in Latin America, an area of the planet subordinated to extractivist policies that continue to promote and close their eyes to the harmful impact of the use of non-renewable and non-clean energies, of food production with toxic and unsustainable agricultural practices and of the continued subjugation of the common good to economic interests, environmental threats that, in fact, extend to the other continents and that continue to be consented also in our country. Isidro Baldenegro left us without knowing whether he would finally be able to guarantee the consolidated protection of indigenous cultures and their intact forests, which unfortunately continue to disappear at a devastating speed. But it has also left us a legacy that has marked and will continue to mark the work and resilience of generations of activists and non-governmental organizations of the environment. Isidro Baldenegro is an example for all those who daily question the pillars that support the hegemonic model of extractivist globalization. Isidro Baldenegro left us too early. It is our duty to continue your work in the least contribution we can offer. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session on 27 January 2017, expresses its deepest regret for this sad event and pays tribute to Isidro Baldenegro, his family and the Mexican people. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u225	We shall vote for this vote, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following vote No 203 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Unfortunately, noting the International Day of Memory of Holocaust Victims ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and PAN ). I request Secretary Duarte Pacheco to proceed to your reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u226	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On the occasion of the 60 years of the liberation of one of the most emblematic camps of Nazi concentration, Auschwitz-Birkenau, the United Nations consecrated in 2005, January 27 as the International Day of Memory of Holocaust Victims. According to the Resolution adopted by the General Assembly, it is intended not only to honor the memory of all the victims who have lost their lives in the hands of one of the worst forms of totalitarianism that the World has known, but also to promote the education of young people over one of the most tragic periods of humanity. in the spirit of this international evocation, the Assembly of the Republic renews today, and for the seventh consecutive year, its commitment to preserve and promote its memory and education in schools and universities, communities and other institutions, “so that future generations may understand the causes of the Holocaust and reflect on its consequences” in order to prevent any repetition of acts of genocide. in the troubled times we live in, and in the face of the rise of dramatic phenomena of racism, hatred, discrimination and anti-Semitism, it is of enormous importance to mark this day and its purpose. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic pays tribute to all the victims of the Holocaust, recalls this date, confirming its responsibility not to forget, and expresses its deep concern about the reemergence of xenophobic, racist and anti-Semitism movements. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u227	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Members, in addition to some representatives of ambassadors, are present in a gallery, attending the sitting. Ambassadors of Germany, Austria, Georgia, Moldova, Estonia, Romania, Turkey, Canada, Ukraine and the Ambassador of Israel. We shall vote on vote No 203 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Unfortunately, noting the International Day of Memory of Holocaust Victims ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and PAN ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, following the votes that we have just adopted, we will keep 1 minute silence [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed, I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the Members for their presence. Members of the Government, who have stayed with us so far. Until next chance. We shall then proceed to the vote on vote No 201 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Greetings to keep promises to women and girls ( PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and Os Verdes ). I ask Secretary Idália Serrão to proceed to your reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u228	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Members of Parliament and members of the Subcommittee on Equality and Non-Discrimination welcome the millions of people throughout the world who, on 21 January 2017, marched in defense of the recognition of women's rights as human rights. The world has promised that the rights of women and girls, including access to contraception, maternal health and other reproductive health care, will be at the heart of the objectives of sustainable development. We must now keep and keep these promises! The right to sexual and reproductive health implies a set of freedoms and rights to which not everyone has access. in developing countries, about 250 million women want to avoid pregnancy, but do not have access to contraceptive methods. Worldwide, more than 20 million women interrupt pregnancy without security conditions, causing the annual death of about 50 000 women, as well as temporary or definitive disabilities of about 8 million women. Free access to contraception is linked to greater and better health, autonomy, rights, gender equality, level of education and even economic development, particularly for women. The world must keep the promises made to women! We therefore call for everyone to engage in the global achievements achieved at the level of contraceptive services and care and to invest in health policies and sexual and reproductive rights for all people, as well as to support the organizations that promote them. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, therefore, approved this greeting vote. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u229	Thank you, Secretary. We're going to vote on the vote you just read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u230	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u231	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u232	Mr President, it is to announce that the CDS will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u233	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We now vote in general on Bill No. 305 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amendment to Decree-Law No 241 / 2007 of 21 June defining the legal regime applicable to Portuguese firefighters in the continental territory ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] This bill goes down to 1. the Commission. The general vote of Bill No 373 / XIII ( 2 ) is followed. ( a ) — Alterly Decree-Law No 241 / 2007 of 21 June defining the legal regime applicable to Portuguese firefighters in the mainland, creating rules on the dispensation of firefighters who perform functions in the Public Administration ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] Equally low to 1. the Commission. We now vote in general on Bill No. 376 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter the composition of the National Council of Firefighters, regulated by Decree-Law No 73 / 2013 of 31 May ( PAN ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from PS and the CDS-PP.]] The general vote on Bill No 377 / XIII ( 2 ) follows. ( a ) — Amends the legal regime applicable to Portuguese firefighters in the mainland, approved by Decree-Law No 241 / 2007 of 21 June 2007 ( NAP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD were rejected in favour of BE, CDS-PP, CCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We now vote in general on Bill No. 379 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amends Decree-Law No 241 / 2007 of 21 June defining the legal regime applicable to Portuguese firefighters in the continental territory ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from the PS and PS.]] Low to 1. the Commission. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 472 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a guarantee stamp for companies with practices responsible for recruitment and inclusion in the active life of young people ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD, BE and the CDS-PP.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 307 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates a new legal regime to combat harassment at the workplace ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 10. the Commission. We shall generally vote for Bill No. 371 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the legislative framework for the prevention of the practice of harassment in the context of work in the private sector and in the Public Administration ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 10. the Commission. We will generally vote for Bill No. 375 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Prevents and combats harassment at the workplace ( 10th amendment to the Labour Code and 5th amendment to the Labour Procedure Code ) ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The bill also drops to 10. the Commission. We now vote in general on Bill No. 378 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strengthen protection against acts of harassment within the framework of labour relations ( NAP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 10. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u234	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u235	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u236	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a declaration of vote on the final draft laws.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u237	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 215 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Repositions the holiday scheme in public service, including the right to 25 days of annual holidays and additional holiday days depending on age, by amending Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June 2014 approving the General Law on Public Works ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 216 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Assigned the right to 25 days of annual holidays, making the tenth amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No 161 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recognizes the right to 25 holiday days in the private sector ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We now vote in general on Bill No. 370 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Reposition of the right to a minimum of 25 working days in public service, increased by age up to 28 working days ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 380 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Labour Code, recognizing the right to 25 working days of holiday ( NAP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We now vote in general on Bill No. 381 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter the General Law on Public Works adopted by Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June, recognizing the right to 25 working days of holiday ( NAP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u238	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u239	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u240	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the previous votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u241	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. We shall vote on resolution No 35 / XIII ( 2 ) in a comprehensive vote. ( a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and Montenegro to Avoid Double Taxation and Prevent Tax Evasion in Income Tax Matters signed in Lisbon on 12 July 2016. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against BE and abstentions from the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall vote on resolution No 36 / XIII ( 2 ) in a comprehensive vote. ( a ) — Approves the Protocol, signed on 14 January 1971, amending the Convention between Portugal and France to Avoid Double Taxation and Establish Rules of Mutual Administrative Assistance in Income Tax Matters, signed on 25 August 2016. [[When put to the vote, the PS, CDS-PP, the CCP, the Greens and the NAP were voted on and BE abstained.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u242	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u243	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u244	Mr President, it is to indicate that on the vote on motions for resolutions 35 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) and 36 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) we will present two written explanations of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u245	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u246	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u247	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u248	Mr President, with regard to the motions for resolutions still lacking to vote, I request that paragraph 38/ XIII ( 2 ) be adopted. ( a ) be voted on separately from the following.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u249	Of course, Mr. Deputies. We shall then vote on resolution No 38/ XIII ( 2 ) in a comprehensive vote. ( a ) — Approves the Cooperation Agreement in the Field of Defence between the Portuguese Republic and the Islamic Republic of Mauritania, signed in Nouakchott, on 21 October 2010. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]] We shall now vote jointly in a global vote on motions for resolutions 39 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Ibero-American Cinematographic Integration Convention adopted in Caracas on 11 November 1989, 40 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Amending Protocol to the Ibero-American Cinematographic Integration Convention adopted in Córdoba, Kingdom of Spain, on 28 November 2007, 41 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Latin American Agreement on Cinematographic Co-production adopted in Caracas on 11 November 1989 and 42 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Amending Protocol to the Latin American Cinematic Co-production Agreement signed in Bogotá on 14 July 2006. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Paragraphs 19 to 33 of the Journal of the Assembly of the Republic of I Series are hereby approved for plenary meetings of 3, 4, 24, 25, 28, 29 and 30 November and 6, 7, 14, 15, 16, 21, 22 and 23 December 2016. There are no objections, they are deemed to be approved. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we also have for the vote an opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which will be announced by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u250	Mr. President and Mr. Members, at the request of the Court of Justice of the District of Guard, Central Civil and Criminal Court of the Guard, Judge 3, Case No 209 / 10.9TAGVA, the Subcommittee on Ethics decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Santinho Pacheco ( PS ) to give written testimony as a witness within the scope of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-27.u251	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the next plenary meeting will take place on Wednesday, 1 February, for 3 p.m. the agenda contains political statements and the assessment of petitions Nos 84 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Urgent replacement of the railway service in the Ramal da Lousã ( Pedro Júlio de Almeida Poiares Malta and others) and 103 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Decriminalization of assisted death ( Civic Movement « Right to Die with Dignity » ). Good weekend, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 28 minutes.]]
