ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 3 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to the agenda, which is five points, I will give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco to read the file. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. motions for resolutions 49 / XIII ( 2 ) were introduced. ( a ) — Approves the Global Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, on the one hand, and the European Union and its Member States, on the other hand, signed in Brussels on 30 October 2016, and 50 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and the Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part, signed on 30 October 2016, which falls to 2. the Commission. The projects of lein.os 513 / XIII were also entered ( 2. ( a ) — Alter the Law of General Bases of Soil Public Policy, Land and Urban Planning ( First Amendment to Law No 31 / 2014 of 30 May ) ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 514 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Review the Work Accidents and Occupational Disease Repair Scheme, which is subject to the first amendment to Law No 98 / 2009 from 4 September ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and 515 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Provides for prior consultation of municipalities in administrative procedures relating to prospecting and research, experimental exploitation and exploitation of hydrocarbons ( PS ). Resolutions 834 / XIII ( 2 ) were also introduced. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the recruitment of health professionals and the integration of health professionals employed under contingency plans within the staff of health institutions ( CFP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 835 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government support farmers in the Vouga Valley and promote an adequate collection insurance system for small farms ( BE ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 836 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to promote the development of the steel industry and the strengthening of contrasts ( PSD ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 837 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the conduct of actions to protect, enhance, disseminate and promote the Way ( central) Portuguese of Santiago ( PSD ), 838 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — The reopening of the passenger rail service between Leixões and Ermesinde and its connection to Campanhã ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 839 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Mobility guarantee in the Vale do Sousa and Basso Thamega region ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 840 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Transparency in the process of prospecting and research of hydrocarbons and drawing up a Green Paper, contributing to the strengthening of technical and scientific mechanisms to support political decision ( PSD ), 841 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Portuguese Government the immediate replacement of the fourth carriage on all trains operating on the Lisbon Metropolitan Green Line ( PAN ), 842 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to improve the service of the Lisbon Metropolitan and ensure good public transport options during the period of work at the Arroios Station ( BE ), 843 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Statute of the Military of the Armed Forces ( EMFAR) ( BE ), 844 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Final recruitment of all health professionals placed under the Grip Contingency Plan ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 845 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Lisbon Metropolitan Blue Line — replacement of normal public transport service ( PSD ), 846 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The suspension of the research and exploration of hydrocarbons off Aljezur and the national reassessment of the other concession contracts ( PCP ), 847 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen vaccination measures against measles and launches an information campaign to clarify the population about the validity of the vaccination included in the National Vaccination Programme, in particular in the case of measles ( PSD ), 848 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to promote awareness of the importance of vaccination ( PCP ) and 849 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government carry out a broad reflection on the situation of kinetic activity in Portugal as a basis for legislative adjustments in the field of hunting ( CFP ). As far as the dossier is concerned, that is all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u3	Mrs. Members, let us then enter the first item on the agenda, with the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 827 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to comply with the National Vaccination Programme in the school community ( CDS-PP ), 828 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to comply with the National Programme for Vaccination in the Adult Population and Health Professionals ( CDS-PP ), 821 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Measures to increase vaccination coverage in Portugal ( BE ), 847 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen vaccination measures against measles and launches an information campaign to clarify the population about the validity of the vaccination included in the National Vaccination Programme, in particular in the case of measles ( PSD ) and 848 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to promote awareness of the importance of vaccination ( CFP ). To present the draft resolutions of the CDS-PP, you have the floor of Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, in this topic of measles vaccination, the CDS presents not one, but two draft resolutions, because it understood that it could not, in any way, stay away from a reality that has worried us and that is on the agenda. It is a matter of public health and therefore for all of us, regardless of the meritorious work that has been developed, we must go further, we must deepen and ensure better results and contribute to the awareness and clarification of the population, in relation to a problem that involves the most vulnerable: unprotected children. With these two projects, of course, we want, firstly, to contribute to the clarification of the population, to raise awareness of the need to maintain high vaccination rates, which guarantee the common good and well-being of society. And we do so in a positive way, not accusing, not in a demagogically way, not contributing to social alarmism, but, yes, trying to clarify and, of course, calling attention that it is not a question of beliefs. It is factual, it is real that in our country, and in others — but I am referring now to our country, which is the situation we are dealing with — the vaccines have contributed to the eradication of various diseases and also to the fact that since 2005 there have been no reported cases of measles in Portugal. What we want with the measures we are proposing — and we hope to have the consensus of the whole House — is that it does not ease itself in the tone, form or means to ensure high vaccination rates, so that there is a certain social censorship for those who forget or do not intend to vaccinate their children. In a very concrete way, we intend to tighten communication between the various bodies, both the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health, to maintain high vaccination rates. We also want to emphasize and highlight the role of primary health care in our country, particularly the role of nurses associated with vaccination, who have done so much over the years in this area. I wanted to conclude in this first intervention, drawing attention to the other draft resolution that we present, which goes against adults, who are not, in any way, furnished with the reality of vaccination and the problem of measles, as you are seeing, in this outbreak, in which more than 50% of those affected are adults and health professionals. We also remember the reality of the migrant community — from which some cases may have emerged — and the need to strengthen control measures with this population. With all this, what we hope is that he progresses, not taking steps back in what is the reality about the measles vaccination, and that we can contribute here, in the House, to improve the public health panorama in Portugal. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u5	I now give the floor to Mr Moisés Ferreira to present the draft resolution of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate on vaccination and the National Vaccination Programme is of the greatest importance, it is true, as we have seen in recent times with the public debate, but I believe that it is, above all, fundamental that we know what the starting point for this discussion is. The starting point for this discussion is the fact that in Portugal we have 95 % vaccination coverage, for example in the case of measles, the first is to have 98 % coverage, to have group immunity and to be from countries with better coverage and even better than many countries with compulsory vaccination. This is the starting point. However, the aim must be — as the draft resolution of the Left Block points out — to increase the vaccination coverage in Portugal and to strengthen the positive, extremely positive impact of the National Vaccination Programme. Therefore, first of all, one must realize, who is not being vaccinated and what is the minority that, in Portugal, is not doing its vaccination scheme; two, why are not vaccinating the children in charge; three, what is the attitude that the State should have. Is it an attitude of punishment or is it an attitude of active promotion of adherence to the National Vaccination Program? in one of its draft resolutions, the CDS-PP refers to the impediment of registration or registration to certain children who are not vaccinated. This punitive attitude can actually aggravate certain problems that may be at the basis of non-vaccination and does not solve any problem, because the resolution of the problem will pass by making these people voluntarily adhere to the National Vaccination Programme. It is therefore necessary for the State to respond to people who, probably in possession of information that is not true, have unfounded beliefs about vaccines or who have lost the perception of the risk of certain diseases. To this end, the Left Block proposes that information and awareness campaigns which disclose the importance of the National Vaccination Programme, which disclose the importance of vaccination and that they say at all times « It is free, it is enough to schedule in their health centre, it is easy to do», as well as the age at which such vaccination should be made. We also know that primary health care needs to improve, in many places, its relationship with users and therefore to be more proactive. Whenever you identify someone who is not vaccinated or is not complying with your vaccination scheme you should call that person and mark a day and an hour to vaccinate. More than punish, people should be informed and brought to the National Vaccination Program and to the National Health Service. Finally, because we know that many people may not be vaccinating because they are in extreme situations of social exclusion — so extreme that they may not even be included in the National Health Service and, on the limit, they do not even have the number of users and therefore do not have access to vaccination — we propose a better link between school and primary health care. Whenever the school detects a child who does not have its updated vaccination scheme, who did not comply with it, then communicate to primary health care and that these articles with the family, contacting her again in an information and awareness-raising action, promoting adherence to the National Vaccination Program and, who knows, bringing more people into the National Health Service, ensuring greater and better follow-up
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u7	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u8	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that we are certain that these Left Block proposals are those that really respond to needs and those that will increase the coverage of the National Vaccination Programme. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u9	You now have the floor to present the PSD draft resolution, Mrs. Angela Guerra.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2016, as a result of the remarkable work done by the National Health Service ( SNS ) in recent decades in the field of vaccination, the World Health Organization officially stated that the measles was eradicated in Portugal. In fact, since 2004 and until last year, the transmission of the virus causing measles disease has been discontinued in our country. It is important to point out that this situation was only possible due to the high rate of vaccination coverage that we achieved and which finally allowed the mortality caused by measles. Yes, because the measles can kill! And he killed dozens of Portuguese children not many decades ago. But if the vaccination coverage rates against measles are high among us, the fact is that official reports recognize that there are « regional and local asymmetries that increase the risk of susceptible stock exchanges, even in geographical areas with high overall vaccination coverage ». It is also estimated that there may be about 10 000 to 15 000 children in the country who have not received the vaccine that protects, among other diseases, also against measles. We also know that there is a number, although not quantified, of adults, including health professionals, who have not received the number of recommended doses of the vaccine against measles, which makes them facilitating the spread of this disease. This is the context that we should deserve the greatest concern in terms of public health, since the recent outbreak of measles in Portugal, already with 27 confirmed cases and which unfortunately caused a death, recorded more than 23 cases between 2004 and 2014. In fact, in just four months, more cases of measles have already been confirmed in Portugal than in the last 10 years! We are not alarmists, nor will we allow this issue to serve as a weapon of political and party shooting. in this matter, as in others, we distinguish ourselves from those who have never hesitated to explore human suffering in order to gain political gains. That is why, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD considers it essential to maintain public tranquillity in this area, which is why it is important, precisely with a view to maintaining this tranquillity, that the Government take the necessary measures to control the present outbreak of measles and ensure that the same will not be repeated. We therefore present a draft resolution, recommending that the Government strengthen the measures of vaccination against measles and launch a pedagogical and information campaign to clarify the population's validity of the vaccination included in the National Vaccination Programme. We believe that this PSD initiative, along with the CDS, the Left Block and the PCP that go in the same direction as ours, serves as a call for attention to the government and further sensitizes Portuguese society for the need of this universal vaccination against measles. It is that — and we do not tire of repeating — vaccination is even the best form of prevention against measles and also the greatest obstacle to the spread of this disease. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u11	To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The vaccines were an important civilizational conquest for the protection of the health of children and young people and allowed to prevent suffering and death related to infectious diseases that were common in childhood, but also in adulthood. Vaccination plays a key role in individual protection, in the interruption of disease cycles and therefore in collective protection and in public health. In summary, as the Directorate-General of Health defends vaccines: « improve people's health and well-being; contribute to the efficiency and sustainability of health services; and they are a development factor». In Portugal, the conjugation of the National Vaccination Programme — universal and free — and the creation of the National Health Service made it possible to gain significant gains in terms of child health and a significant coverage of the population at the level of vaccination. However, the outbreak of measles that the country is facing, existing according to official data, 27 confirmed cases and 1 under investigation, relaunched the debate about the importance of vaccination for disease control in general, and of this, in particular, as well as called attention to a significant number of people who are not vaccinated. Thus, of the 27 confirmed cases, 17 were not vaccinated. There is also a relevant information: data from the new national serological survey, published by the Coordinator of the Department of Infectious Diseases of the National Institute Ricardo Jorge, show that « although there is no evidence of a decrease in the vaccination rate at the national level, there are areas where a decrease or delay occurs in taking vaccines ». As it is important to disclose other relevant data: among confirmed cases, 17 are older than 18 years of age and 12 are health professionals. The CFP therefore understands that, in view of this reality, it is necessary to go further in the measures that are already being taken, particularly with the families of non-vaccinated children. in this sense, we propose that contact actions of health professionals be carried out with these families, sensitizing them to the importance of vaccination.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u14	This work should be extended to migrant communities and should be developed in conjunction with the institutions that accompany these communities. Because the number of infected health professionals is high, we propose to proceed, in conjunction with the Safety, Hygiene and Health Services at Work, to the vaccination of health professionals, in fact, by fulfilling the Program for the Elimination of Sarampo. Because the data that have become public of the new serological survey point to the existence of areas where there is a decrease or where there are delays in taking vaccines, we propose that a study be prepared that enables us to understand the reasons for the decrease in vaccination and the delays in taking vaccines. But the problems of vaccination are not summed up by what we said here. Delays and problems with stock failure have been known for many years. In February and April of this year, there were delays and problems with vaccine stocks that should be taken at two months, at four months, and a dose that was administered at five years. This situation occurred in the Regional Health Administration of Lisbon and Tejo Valley and deserves proposals. in this sense, we also present very concrete proposals to solve the problem of vaccine stocks. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u15	Mr António Sales, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we welcome and welcome, with great pleasure, the draft resolutions of the CDS-PP, the Left Block, the PCP and the PSD, regarding the vaccinal reinforcement of the population and the promotion of the dissemination of information in this area. I must also say that many of the measures proposed in these draft resolutions already exist and others are beginning to be implemented. So you left and right of the PS, welcome to the solution! As a health professional, my perspective is that all diseases with and without lethal potential are worrying. All viral or not situations, whether epidemics or not, are obviously worrisome and we should do everything to reduce the probability of happening. The National Vaccination Program, implemented in Portugal in 1965, has represented, over these five decades, a very important milestone for reducing morbidity and mortality associated with infectious diseases. With a universal, general and free character, it was a fundamental part for obtaining a high rate of population coverage and contributed, decisively, to the protection and control of diseases, both individually and collectively. Vaccines should be adequate and up-to-date to accompany scientific, technological and social development. According to the latest data from the latest Annual Report on Access to Health Care in the Establishments of the SNS and Conventional Entities ( 2015 ), they have proved that the high rate of vaccination in Portugal has undoubtedly contributed to the failure to verify any infection caused by the measles virus. The same report states that ‘Vaccinal coverage rates for VASPR 2...’ — the vaccine against measles, epidemic parotiditis and rubella — ‘... ranged from 95 % to 98 % for all children aged 7 to 18 years, fulfilling one of the objectives of the National Programme for the Elimination of Sarampo (PNES) and WHO requirements’. That is why Portugal has a very effective vaccination schedule and a rate of vaccination against the measles of about 96 % of the population, which is at least exemplary. For such outbreaks to become epidemics it would be necessary for Portugal to have a much lower level of vaccination and to lose the so-called ‘group immunity’. The outbreak of measles that we had in Portugal in recent months has proved precisely the effectiveness of our National Health Service and the national vaccination plan. It was because we worked so well in this area that the impact of this outbreak was not greater. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group considers it essential to maintain public tranquillity in this area. Thus, and on the basis of a climate of great serenity, without alarmism, there is a wide public debate involving civil society, the medical community and the university, about the advantages of vaccination and the disadvantages of non-vaccination. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u17	in this context, the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, within the Parliamentary Health Committee, has already required a set of hearings to make a thorough clarification on this matter. It is essential to promote campaigns that, in a pedagogical and informative way, clarify the population about the validity of the vaccination included in the National Vaccination Program, particularly in the case of measles, disseminating information to the effect in the ACES (groups of health centres), in the ULS (local health units) and in the hospitals of the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u18	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u19	I'm done now, Mr. President. This reality will only be possible with an ever stronger SNS, with greater equity and more sustainable, allowing us levels of vaccination such as those recorded in Portugal. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, vaccination has already saved more lives from children than any other medical intervention. Vaccinating is not an individual decision. Vaccine is a collective responsibility, an act of citizenship and it depends on the safety of all of us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u20	For a second intervention, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this debate, what we wanted, on behalf of the CDS, to congratulate us on the presentation by the CDS of these two draft resolutions. It was worth presenting this initiative, because then consensus was found on the part of the different banks. And we have never been on the side of the bottom-down, nor of misinformation, nor of demagogy or social alarmism. It is on the constructive side that we are having this debate. In fact, it is essential that public debate, clarifications, and so on, should be strengthened. Now, what we hope is that, following this initiative - and without prejudice to the campaigns and hearings we are going to do in committee, having heard Mr. Director-General of Health - the Government strengthens means, takes concrete measures on the ground, to have a vaccination coverage that guarantees the safeguarding of the community and so that we can, in terms of occupational health, have an effective response to ensure that health professionals are effectively protected from the current change.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u22	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u23	I will finish, Mr. President. at the same time, we hope that the Government will consider the most correct measures to be taken in school, whether or not they have to go through the prevention of school frequency to students who persist in their non-vaccinal state, because it is effectively the government, heard all the entities, who must make the best decisions. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u24	Mrs. Members, the Bureau no longer records any request for a word, so the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 827 / XIII ( 2 ) is concluded. ( a ) ( CDS-PP ), 828 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) ( CDS-PP ), 821 / XIII ( 2. a ) ( BE ), 847 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PSD ) and 848 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PCP ). We went on to the general assessment of the project of lein.os 340 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amend the Statute of the Military Armed Forces ( EMFAR ) ( PCP ) together with draft resolution No 843 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Statute of the Military of the Armed Forces ( EMFAR) ( BE). To present the PCP bill, Mr. Jorge Machado has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The military of the Armed Forces, as part of the missions assigned by the Constitution, play a very important role in ensuring... [[Right now, there was a burb in the room.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u26	Mr President, I am sorry to interrupt you, but I would like to ask the House a little more silence so that we can hear Mr Jorge Machado quietly. [[Pause.]] Please continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President. I take advantage of it to correct a period of my time and welcome the representative structures of the Armed Forces military present in the galleries. [[PCP applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As I said, the military of the Armed Forces, as part of the missions assigned by the Constitution, play an important role in ensuring the national sovereignty and military defence of the Republic with party exemption and autonomy. However, in recent years, the pretext of alleged measures to restructure and modernize the Armed Forces, successive governments have promoted doctrinal and statutory changes, in order to deepen a process of concentration and governmentalization of the military institution, with changes in the upper structure of the Armed Forces and the consequent loss of its autonomy. Together with this process and not disconnected from it, successive governments have been degrading the conditions in which the military carry out their missions with serious, yet unsurpassed situations in the support of operational means and in the management of human resources. The former Government, PSD / CDS, with amendments to the Statute of the Military Armed Forces, was responsible for the degradation of the Statute of the Military Condition, calling into question social rights and creating entropies to the development of the careers of the military of permanent officers, without contributing to the resolution of the main problems of the Armed Forces, particularly in the area of personnel. Indeed, the amendments to the EMFAR adopted by the previous Government, based on economic measures, did not dare to touch the main demands of the military, in particular with regard to rights, freedoms and guarantees and better career management and showed no sensitivity to problems such as parenthood and its consequences in the lives of the military.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u28	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u29	With EMFAR in force, most promotions were made by choice, introducing a criterion of absolutely unnecessary discretion, without any reason to justify it. at the same time, it was created the unnecessary post of furriel, whose only goal is to delay the arrival to higher positions in the career of sergeant and thus to have cheaper labor. At the same time, no response was found to make the entry of young people more attractive; on the contrary, the degradation of the military condition can only result in increasing difficulties. For the CFP it is clear that these aspects must be corrected and that the specificities of the military must be reflected in their careers. The CFP believes that there is a need for a profound change to EMFAR, which necessarily goes through dialogue with socio-professional associations, as the law determines. With this bill, the CFP aims to minimize the ill-treatment of the PSD/CDS government and restore justice and balance, particularly at the level of the careers of the military and their family life. Finally, there are two subjects that deserve attention. On the one hand, the PCP bill corrects the anachronistic expression « political exemption », because what is and must be concerned is the party exemption and not the policy, and on the other hand, establishes a set of rights of kinship. In fact, there are now more and more cases in which both parents are military and EMFAR does not safeguard the rights of children properly, for example in cases where both are on missions away from home. For the PCP, it is important to start this process of discussion of EMFAR and the exit kick is given by the PCP with legislative changes. We are naturally available to hear, including, necessarily, the representative structures of the military in the process, we are available to discuss, but, essentially, we are available to change to better EMFAR—so it requires the respect we have for the military and the service they provide to the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u30	To present the initiative of the Left Block, Mr. João Vasconcelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I take advantage of welcoming the representative associations of the military present here. The Left Block Parliamentary Group presents a draft resolution on the Military Statute of the Armed Forces, following with pleasure the legislative initiative brought by the CFP. During the reign of several governments over the past few years, and in particular during the previous Government, PSD / CDS, profound changes have been introduced to the Statute of the Military of the Armed Forces, exacerbating the military condition, severely restricting their social rights and even implicating the rights, freedoms and guarantees of the constitutionally consecrated military. The PSD and the CDS, for four long years of obscurantism and serious measures against the rights of workers and the Portuguese people, did not let the military escape. The restructuring of the Armed Forces was no longer aimed at reducing expenditure on social and labour rights and the effectiveness of civilian and military personnel by directing investment in the equipment and modernization of the Armed Forces, but at responding to international commitments and meeting NATO interests ( Organisation of the North Atlantic Treaty ). This alleged restructuring even passed through the army factory establishments and only served to dismantle its structures and services, putting jobs at stake, particularly those of workers with precarious links. Military Maintenance, with more than a century of existence, has been extinct, succeeding a company without viability, and the Institute of Social Action of the Armed Forces has been left in a dire situation, now amassing more than 50 million euros in debts.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u33	All these changes made by the PSD/CDS government have caused a serious reversal in social and labour rights within the Armed Forces personnel. The claims of the representative associations of the sector have not been taken into account, in particular the right to parenthood and military life, leave for holidays or leave for studies without penalty of service time. Decree-Law No 90 / 2015, which approved the Military Statute of the Armed Forces, EMFAR, did not take into account and disregard Organic Law No 3 / 2001, the Law of the Right of Professional Association of the Military, which stipulates that its associations integrate « advisory councils, study committees and working groups set up to carry out the analysis of matters of relevance to the institution in the area of its specific competence ». This situation has resulted in a massive repudiation by the military and their representative associations, with varying positions and even manifestations of discontent. Unfortunately, the current government, which represented a certain hope for the military and its socio-professional associations, has not yet taken the desired steps. The standards applied by the previous Government have not yet been reversed, which severely conditioned the normal development of the socio-professional associationism of the military. The socio-professional associations have even challenged the new diploma of this government, which aggravates the conditions for access to the reform, also challenge the new evaluation system, which is planned to enter into force in January 2018, and are very disappointed and unhappy that the right of association is not being met. That is, they are not being consulted properly, they do not include advisory councils, study committees and working groups provided for in the law. thus, our draft resolution recommends that the Government establish a working group that includes military associations, with the aim of welcoming its proposals and demands for a positive amendment to the Military Statute of the Armed Forces, and submit its conclusions by the end of September. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u34	Mr Bruno Vitorino of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We do not have many opportunities to talk about national defence issues in plenary. Let me therefore leave a greeting, a word of encouragement, of strength, which I think is fair and worthy of our Rules of Procedure for all that has happened recently. Greeting extends to all Commands, but in particular to those in the Central African Republic, on a very hard and difficult mission, to represent our homeland and to defend our values. We are very proud of your courage and your work.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u36	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u37	As for the CFP's initiative to amend the Military Statute of the Armed Forces, nothing is brought again. It is the same logic as the CFP: the partisanization of matters which are of national interest and which should deserve supra-particular attention. [[Protests from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]] The objective of the CFP is to say ill of the past to justify its silence in relation to the present.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u38	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u39	The former Government has made a profound reform of military legislation to modernize and adapt our Armed Forces to new international reality, following the guidelines of the Defence 2020 directive, with the aim of obtaining efficiency gains, economies of scale and vectors of innovation that produce short, medium and long-term effects. The objective of the CFP is to criticize this effort, this work, and what they present today really adds nothing to improve the military institution.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u40	What do you have to say about the proposals?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u41	Curiously, today, the CFP criticizes the previous government, accusing it of degrading military conditions and wanting to withdraw powers from military leaders or devalue the Armed Forces. With the current Socialist Government and the current Minister, we have seen a number of abnormal and serious situations. by calling into question the dignity of the Military College, when discussing the matter in the public square, the Minister's action led to the resignation of those responsible for the College and the Chief of Staff of the Army itself, having been affected the image of the Army. And this had the complicity of PCP silence. We attended the exit of Admiral CEMA ( Chief of the Army Staff ). The Minister chose a very poor way of treating someone who gave so much to our country and how it was discussed in the public square affected the image of the Navy. And this had the complicity of PCP silence. We have serious financial problems in the Armed Forces, cuts and seizures that call into question the maintenance and operation in the three branches. And this has the complicity of PCP silence.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u42	These cuts and seizures are the ones that came from your government!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u43	We have seen the constant denial of information and the lack of documentation by the Minister of Defence to the respective Commission — this is the case with studies on the Montijo Air Base or how it is decided and announced on the back of Parliament the withdrawal of our troops from Kosovo. And this has the complicit silence of the PCP. These and other situations, in which the current government is deliberately or out of competence and affecting the image and prestige of the Armed Forces, have had the complicity of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u44	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u45	On the other hand, with regard to the withdrawal of our forces from Kosovo, it is the government that is going to the trailer, who knows, of some secret pact with VV. Ex. The Socialist Government makes a big mistake by withdrawing our forces from Kosovo, the only national forces that were prominent to us in a NATO scenario. In today's unstable days, in Europe and in a more dangerous world, we will no longer have an active role in an Atlantic alliance from which we were founders is a mistake, and a dangerous mistake. Those who are not tending to be forgotten, and we've stopped being. It's an error and it's errors behind errors. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u46	PSD said nothing about the PCP bill!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u47	You didn't hear!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u48	For an intervention, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Diogo León has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I also welcome the military associations present here and say that national defence and the dignity of the Armed Forces have been a design with which the Socialist Party has made a common cause.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u50	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u51	over the decades, we have been able to respond to the challenges that are placed on the country and its Armed Forces, which have undergone a paradigm change, an institution designed and prepared to face a colonial war for a 21st century Armed Forces, where its purpose is substantially different, but no less relevant to the defence of national sovereignty and the affirmation of Portuguese presence in the world, this time with the foundation of, supported by a firm network of alliances, European and Atlantic, contribute to the promotion of international peace and security. in this legislature, with the amendment of the parliamentary majority and with the head of the Government of the Socialist Party, our military were dignified by the replacement of social rights, which covered all citizens serving the Portuguese State in the public sphere. In addition, significant, budgetary and not only efforts have been made to ensure that the Armed Forces are more trained and modernized in material means, to recover the deficit of recruitment legitimized by the previous Government, to make the Armed Forces more legitimate to collaborate in public-interest missions and, of course, in international missions as well as national high-profile forces that prestigious Portugal so much. The work for national defence has not been scarce and as is public, the Ministry has stated that no changes to organic or statutory diplomas are planned before 2018. The PS Parliamentary Group accompanies this prudent position, which seems to contradict the draft law submitted by the PCP and the draft resolution submitted by the Left Block. We do not have a dogmatic view of EMFAR, but the current Statute of the Armed Forces Military has been in force since 1 July 2015, and it has still been too short a time in order to be able to assess, with the rigor, the seriousness and the requirement that a status with the relevance of EMFAR implies the need for a background review. As for some changes that recover previous EMFAR standards, as in the cases of the conditions for switching to reserve or promotions by choice, we do not consider the hypothesis of reversibility, given both the increase of the average life expectancy, which allows the accumulation of experience, as well as the valorization of the meritocratic factor for career promotion. I would like to give a final word on the rights of kinship and maternity, for which the CFP also proposes a new articulation in order to ensure that these rights are not damaged or neglected in particular situations. in this sense, I wanted to say specifically to Mr. Jorge Machado that the Socialist Party will urge that there be a clarification of existing rights within the Armed Forces that goes right to the promotion of gender equality, non-discrimination and the right that, of course, the military have some guarantees in the pursuit of a stable family life. Essentially, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has always been on the side of the appreciation of the military and will continue to be available for constructive dialogue between the political forces on this matter, because it will never look down on those who place their best in the service of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u52	For an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Rebelo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u53	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the representatives of the National Association of Sergeants (ANS ), here present as well as the representatives of other associations. On this matter which the PCP and the Left Block here bring, I would first of all like to examine the explanatory statement of your diplomas. Both the narrative, of which I disagree at all, and the type of words used do not appeal to any consensus. It seems that they are calling for a vote against the CDS and PSD benches by the way they "paint" a reality that at the time we are sure it wasn't reality. So I will try to put this issue back on the ground where national defence matters should be and try to reach consensus. The left block diploma has a time problem. In other words, it would be a good idea for a working group, but the working group, at best, would be constituted at the beginning of June, because, if approved now, it would be necessary to wait for the publication of the resolution of the Assembly of the Republic. The working group began to work in June, but with the parliamentary days already marked, the holidays, the end of this parliamentary session in mid-July, the closure of Parliament in August and then with the municipal elections I do not know how that working group could bring together and produce results by the end of September. That is absolutely impossible, therefore our vote against. With regard to the proposals of the CFP, we disagree at all with the statement of reasons and words used. We have noticed, as Mr Vitorino has said, that there is no mention of what is currently happening in the Armed Forces, Mr Jorge Machado. And it is also not the pink vision that was painted here by our colleague of the Socialist Party, Mr Diogo León. Captives are killing the Armed Forces organization. That is an indisputable reality! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u54	Anyone who denies this is not seeing the truth and is denying indisputable facts. Therefore, from the moment the CFP wants to discuss these matters, it was good to also alert this situation that the Armed Forces are currently living. With regard to what we agree with, I mean that we agree with the proposals that are related to parenthood and studies. With regard to certain issues related to special duties, we are also prepared to review the modalities of the promotions, as well as the characterization of duties and functions. As far as legal challenges, hierarchical resources and conditions for switching to the reserve are concerned, we do not consider that the conditions for this change are now in place. It is true that a job has been created at the base of the career and, therefore, in order to reach the first sergeant, it takes more time. It's true! But this was an attempt used to avoid the constraints that we now have in the promotion of the first sergeant-helper, in which, as you know, there is an obvious entropy. This was the solution found, and it is true that it is a solution below. It would be better to create another solution that you do not present. You are proposing a return to the past, which does not solve the issue either, which would go through the creation of an intermediate position, between the prime minister and the assistant sergeant, who could possibly solve it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u55	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u56	I will finish, Mr. President. Therefore, they do not resolve this issue and this too is not a proposal that can be very positive for the future sergeant. Mr President, I apologize for exceeding time, but in fact defence matters rarely come to plenary. And Mr President, who was an illustrious Chairman of the Defence Committee, will give me that tolerance only to appeal to the CFP. As the PCP diploma is drawn up, we cannot generally vote for it. What I propose is that the CFP call for the Commission to be discharged so that within the next 15 days before the end of this legislative session the Commission will take up some of these matters — few. As I said to you, the CDS — I do not know, of course, what the position of the PS and PS will be in this area — may change some aspects, but it cannot vote in favour of this initiative, as it is in general. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u57	Mrs. Members, recently, when Mr. Jorge Machado was speaking, I interrupted him by asking for silence in the Chamber so that he could intervene more quietly, which made Mr. Jorge Machado stay with negative times. If it hadn't, I'd still have half a dozen seconds, so I'll give you the floor again. But I ask you to be brief in your speech. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with regard to the last argument presented here by the CDS-PP, we are naturally available to lower the diploma to the Commission without a vote to discuss it in a serious way with the other parliamentary groups. Second question: the PSD argumentation is a complete diversion maneuver from those who do not want to discuss the problem. The third question and third line of argument, already expressed by several entities, is related to the problem that EMFAR needs to be mature. We say it's time to change. There were no pauses or reflection time when it was about approving EMFAR, now they are asking for pauses and maturation time of EMFAR when it is really necessary to improve it and, in this sense, we understand that it is urgent to improve the diploma and not wait to see if the problems are solved by themselves. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u59	We move on to the third point of our agenda, which consists of the discussion of draft resolutions 607 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent replacement of four wagons in the Green Line of the Metropolitan of Lisbon ( The Greens ), 841 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Portuguese Government the immediate replacement of the fourth carriage on all trains operating on the Lisbon Metropolitan Green Line ( PAN ), 842 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to improve the service of the Lisbon Metropolitan and ensure good public transport options during the period of work at the Arroios station ( BE ) and 845 / XII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Lisbon Metropolitan Blue Line — replacement of normal public transport service ( PSD ). The first intervention was by Mr José Luís Ferreira, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: An effective public transport network assumes great importance as a way to ensure the right to mobility of citizens, which is indeed a constitutional right, but also because it represents environmental, economic and social benefits that are widely recognized. Collective transport is undoubtedly a more environmentally friendly option to reduce motor traffic and greenhouse gas emissions. That is precisely why investment in public transport should be seen as an absolute priority, and the policies followed should promote their increasing use. Only in this way will it be possible to counter the degradation of the public transport service, by realizing the right to mobility and by offering sustainable solutions, in order to minimize the use of individual transport, which has negative effects on carbon dioxide emissions, the higher incidence of respiratory diseases and the higher noise levels. in this context, the metropolitan of Lisbon assumes particular importance, ensuring mobility in a fast, effective and comfortable way, relieving the car pressure, as well as the quality of life, not only of the population living in Lisbon, but also of the population that moves daily in the city. However, and despite this importance in February 2012, this carrier company decreased from four to three the number of carriages circulating on the Green Line for alleged reasons of adequacy of the supply to the search for the service, which, in fact, immediately proved to be false. This means that trains on the Green Line have moved around with less than one carriage, remaining with only three throughout the week and at any time. Now, the Green Line is one of the most user lines, since there are several correspondences to the CP trains and to the ships that make the river connections. In practice, this situation was a backwardness in the quality of the service provided, leading to trains always being crowded, especially at peak hours, being virtually unviable to enter the compositions at some stations, which causes obvious discomfort for users in general and, in particular, for users with reduced mobility, for the elderly and even for people with children. at this moment, and in the face of this situation, to join all other metro problems — delays, fixed trains, some of which, moreover, to provide parts to other compositions so that they can continue to circulate, degraded stations and constantly damaged mechanical means — of course the service provided is far from responding to the needs of users, increasingly moving away from their main objective, which is to ensure the provision of a quality public service guaranteeing the right to mobility of populations. Considering, therefore, that this option was completely wrong — especially when it is demonstrated that, in the public transport sector, it is the increase in the supply that generates the increase in demand, and that this situation represents a real attack on the right to mobility and the quality of life of the populations — the replacement of the four carriages on the Green Line of the Lisbon Metropolitan until six carriages are possible. In addition, it is also necessary for the Government to proceed with the completion of the tendering procedure for the completion of expansion works at the Arroios station, with a view to the start of the works in the shortest time. These are the purposes of the initiative presented by the Greens today to this House, an initiative to think about people, their mobility and thinking about the environment and not only in the fight against greenhouse gas emissions, but also in the commitments that Portugal has made at the international level, whether at the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, or at COP 22, which took place in Marrakesh. We will therefore expect the rest of the banks to realize the importance of this claim that the Greens today bring to this House. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u61	To present draft resolution No 841 / XIII ( 2. ( a), Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Traveling on the Green Line of the Lisbon metro is like going to the cinema to see the biggest drama of the poster. in this line, every day there are the carriages and platforms to reach people, which contributed to the decision in 2012 of the traffic of trains with only three trains, while tourism explodes in the city of Lisbon. There seems to be no room for great doubts: the service is getting worse and this has been accentuated in recent months. The undeniable discomfort of the users, forced to wait longer on crowded platforms and then to travel tight, is already the most faithful portrait of the daily reality that lives on the metro in Lisbon. If we want to go along the complete Green Line, from Telleras to the Sodré Street, the estimated time of the trip is 20 minutes. However, currently at peak time, with the endless waiting times and the carriages and paths always overcrowded, we take at least twice the time to make this journey. In practice, it is better to go from car, since the time at the end is practically the same and is much more comfortable. It is necessary to reverse this situation because the metro is a public transport collective, which has to ensure a quality service and be a promoter of collective and non-individual travel. As the Green Line is one of the most passenger lines, since there are several correspondences to other transport services, such as boats, trains and numerous buses, it is not understandable to reduce the number of trains. The NAP considers that the Lisbon Metropolitan brings to the city a decisive social and environmental contribution by promoting collective mobility. But you need to provide a convenient service to your users. Thus, we consider the replacement of the fourth carriage in all the trains of the Green Line, as well as the strengthening of the careers of the Carris that circulate in the area of Arroios during the period of the works of requalification of that metro station. Perhaps in this way we stop listening to daily warnings like: « The waiting time can be greater than normal. We apologize for the inconvenience caused».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u63	You now have the floor to present draft resolution No 842/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a) Mr Heitor Sousa, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Public transport is one of the guarantees of the right to the city, and it is therefore crucial to think about solutions that return this condition of equality and citizenship. Unfortunately, in more than four years when the former Government, PSD / CDS, was in power to prepare for the privatization of urban public transport in Lisbon and Porto, there was a huge disinvestment in public public transport, which led to a deterioration of the service. One of the services that most lost quality was the Lisbon metro. The policy of de-investment launched by the previous Government has led the Metropolitan to a level of degradation never before known. Whoever moves in Lisbon knows how difficult it is to use the metro. Since it has been considered for several years by its users as the best transport company, the Metropolitan of Lisbon is today one of the biggest targets of criticism and complaints from the population. Today, there is clear overcrowding, the immobilization of carriages, which caused the temporary withdrawal of service of 21 wagons, the lack of maintenance of wheelchairs or lifts, the very extended waiting time or the insufficient number of carriages in the Green Line, which adds the high price of travel, the multiplication of transport tickets that prevent the promotion of intermodality in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon, the lack of link between public transport in the coverage of times and the disastrous expansion strategy of the network that is announced. The Metropolitan of Lisbon suffered particularly from this process, and the particular lack that is revealed today is of workers, both in the area of driving and in the area of maintenance. Many were invited to terminate their employment contracts, which resulted in the reduction of 50 drivers now needed.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u65	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u66	In the face of this problem, the current government has committed itself, more than 6 months ago, to entering the company 30 workers to end the lack of drivers. This integration should be completed by the end of last year but remains unfulfilled. In the area of maintenance the situation is also critical. There was a reduction in the human resources and spare parts necessary for the maintenance of the carriages due to the imposition of the cost reduction, which, in parallel with the natural wear of the material, compromised and continues to compromise the normal functioning of the service. One of the most alarming metro service failures is related to the problem of the Arroios station. In 2012 it was decided, disastrously, to reduce the number of carriages to be circulated in each composition, going from four to three, in operation as a triple unit. In view of the fact that the Green Line is one of the most users, this option soon began to cause huge disturbances. Today, given the decline in services already described, it appears, even if it was intended, that there are no means available to return to four carriages, as there was previously, so the most urgent thing is that the works of enlargement of the railway station begin to allow units with six wagons to start operating on the Green Line.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u67	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u68	This is because, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Arroios station works, today, like the throat of a bottle. They can't stop trains with more than three trains. Now, if the works were immediately removed at the station, it is possible to ensure a service with six wagons, provided that this station is no longer used. But in order for this to be possible, it is necessary to begin planning the reinforcement of Carris careers that may start partially replacing the subway in that area. To this end, the Assembly must adopt a recommendation for the Metropolitan Management Board to ensure the immediate recruitment of 30 drivers, to ensure immediate entry in the company staff boards,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u69	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u70	... of workers in the area of maintenance, necessary for repair of stopped carriages, so that they return, as soon as possible, to the circulation and respond to quality levels on all lines, including on the Green Line, of the Metropolitan of Lisbon. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u71	To present the initiative of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos Santos Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin this speech by welcoming the draft resolutions of the Greens and the NAP, insofar as they set out a very relevant set of concerns. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD participates in this debate by following the concerns of colleagues from the Greens and the NAP with the Lisbon Metropolitan Green Line, but we add a theme that is the replacement of the normal situation on the Blue Line. Currently, the Blue Line, which serves the axis Santa Apolónia / Reboleira, in the municipality of Amadora, where the interface with the Sintra Line of CP, transports millions of passengers annually. Sadly, to this day, only half of the compositions reach the final destination at peak time. This constitutes a severe limitation on the right if the mobility of citizens, as well as on the safety of all those who use this line. Without any prior or alternative notice, the Metropolitan Administration has decided to reduce the frequency of trains serving the stations of Amadora city, increasing at peak time — notice well, at peak time! — the waiting time for 4 to 10 minutes. In addition to this gross degradation of public service, I cannot fail to make a vehement reference to those who have been the findings of a recent inspection by the Mobility and Transport Authority ( TWT ), which has concluded with regard to this same Blue Line - see, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! — the average time available for information at the stations, the partial availability of ticket sales and, in one of the days inspected, only 26 % of punctuality occurred. On the most favourable day this punctuality reached 51 %. The frequency of waiting for passengers is only 29 %, and the Yellow Line is 40 %, the Red Line 42 % and the Green Line 48 %. In several days the trains failed to meet the contract offer with the State — that is, by the Mobility and Transport Authority. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is truly astonishing that this inspection was last December and, so far, there is no indication that these situations are resolved and overcome. Thus, it is completely incomprehensible and unbelievable the Minister of the Environment's public announcement yesterday as to the new Lisbon Metropolitan expansion plan. When the lack of public investment is loud and notorious in the last year and still affects the regular functioning and quality of the service that is provided, here it is except when the Socialist Government, on party and arraiial, is already announcing new investments without connection. With this scenario, we do not see any rational nor any public information justifying this decrease in public transport service to populations who have to travel to the Blue Line and to the municipality of Amadora. We therefore advocate in our draft resolution the replacement of the normality situation on the Blue Line, corresponding to the frequency of compositions, that this government should stop from pharaonic projects and consider the simple resolution of the problems referred to in the AMT audit. I assure you that I was already providing an excellent service to the people. The populations served by the Blue Line do not deserve this negative discrimination. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u73	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to emphasise and appreciate the important and timely decision of the Greens Ecological Party to schedule this debate on the Lisbon Metropolitan, its service and operation, the investment and necessary measures, from a very concrete approach but also very much felt by users and populations on their day-to-day basis and which, moreover, motivated the presentation of other initiatives by other parties. It is a necessary discussion about measures that Metropolitan users have been complaining for a long time and it is appropriate to say that it was late yesterday. At the Arroios station there are not only three carriages, four are there, and for a long time they should have been working, much should have been advanced for the strengthening of compositions at the service in particular on the Green Line, but this issue is inseparable from the serious problems and shortcomings in the maintenance and operation caused by the previous PSD/CDS government and which are still to be overcome. On the other hand, we must not fail to denounce the political hypocrisy of those who have caused these same operational problems and now require answers and solutions, even if we have no idea what is happening. Mrs. Members of the PSD, are better informed of the problem of alternate traffic at peak time on the Blue Line to present proposals and now apologize to the people for keeping the work of connecting to the Reboleira stopped for four years, when it was almost completed, waiting for the privatisation business to open the doors, as was your operation at the time. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, our proposal is that the texts of the various projects presented by the various parties in this debate be the subject of an improvement and conjugation work so that the Assembly of the Republic can approve the most correct and appropriate text on this matter. This discussion takes place at a time when the government announces options for the metropolitan network that deserve the disagreement of the CFP and that should be duly debated, in fact, in accordance with the law, with the authorities and other entities, something that has not been done, and the position and proposals of the CFP on the development and improvement of the quality of the service of the metropolitan one is known. Above all, it is essential to invest effectively and seriously in creating the necessary means for the company to respond to needs in material but also human. We need to strengthen the company with more drivers, but attention that they are not hired externally, we will have to review point 1 of the Left Block proposal on the training of mechanics, they are trained in the Metropolitan, and 30 will not reach the future. More personnel are needed in all areas of the company. Workers are needed for the maintenance and repair of rolling stock, for road repair, traffic agents, commercial operators, reviewers. The company is currently in a limited position and action must be taken very quickly, in an effective and serious manner, to respond to the problems that have been identified due and timelyly by workers, users and the CFP over a long time here in the Assembly of the Republic. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u76	For an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I am tempted to begin by agreeing with the proposal of the Portuguese Communist Party by asking the various benches to bring initiatives on this subject that find a common text, because there is indeed a common trait, which is the public transport service in Lisbon being worse and is even worse in the metropolitan area of Lisbon. Now, that does not cease to be surprising, even though it is an absolute truth. The management agreements and — stop! — the agreements of the Ecological Party 'The Greens' meant exactly not privatization of any service, the reversal in the transport sector, as the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party propose, and it is not that, almost two years after the government, these benches, which said that everything would be different, everything would get better, now come forward with initiatives saying that after all is worse? Oh, my God! «We have been deceived, the Socialist Party does not comply with our agreements»! Protest by Greens Member José Luís Ferreira. Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, it is not nice the way your coalition partners treat the smaller parties! This sets up a sort of political bullying. That's ugly, because they deserve more respect! [[All right!]] [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u78	You are quite right, Mr Bruno Dias, but above all, I was hoping that, since the Socialist Party does not respect the PCP, the Left Block or the Greens, at least respect users, workers and public transport companies. This is because, Mr President, if they qualified the public transport service, mobility, interoperability and intermodality, as an integrated system in the metropolitan area of Lisbon, we would in fact not be here with more carriages on the subway. There are initiatives of more carriages!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u79	But who took them? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u80	Sir, what are you waiting for to put them back? Oh, my God! It's just the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of two years, they are unable to make a sentence. I have a challenge: tell me one aspect, one sector, one line, one model of transport that has improved in these almost two years. Say one! On the Carris, on the Metropolitan, on the Soflusa, on the Transtejo, say something that was worse and that is now better. It's a simple challenge. [[CDS-PP applause.]] If you can tell me a... Therefore, I think you are missing in Lisbon, you are missing in the government, you are missing in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon someone who calls users, someone who takes mobility seriously, someone who takes the public transport service seriously, someone who takes the sustainability of these companies seriously, because the sustainability of these companies is the most direct way to protect workers and to protect all the benefits that lead to the use of public transport. The gentlemen have done zero, and-- stop! — yesterday the Minister announced EUR 650 million for the Lisbon Metropolitan, with two more lines, and 5 or 6 minutes later he made a correction, saying: « Well, maybe it's not these lines; well, maybe it's not that network and maybe it's not 2022 ». And more: the Portuguese Communist Party is now saying that this proposal does not fully agree. Mrs. Members, choose the working language there to understand and understand the investment proposals for the Metropolitan of Lisbon.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u81	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u82	Mr President, I end with an appeal: the CDS will present proposals... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u83	... turned to mobility, to the public transport service, as always did while he was in the government and in the opposition. We are worried and were waiting for you to be competent. You have forgotten the users, you have forgotten the mobility and you have been concerned about a small sector that is satisfied, and this sector that I am talking about is the unions. That's your choice, it's not our choice. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u84	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: First of all, I should like to welcome the proponents for the opportunity of the subject. Secondly, I am taking advantage of trying to answer some of the questions that Mr Hélder Amaral has raised. The honourable Member asked what is missing in this debate, but who is missing in this debate, apparently, is Mrs Assunção Cristos, which strategic thought for the Metropolitan of Lisbon and structural thinking for the city does not seem to have it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Indeed, it is not only on the CDS bench that I think it is lacking strategic and structural thinking for the city of Lisbon, because, after we heard Mr. Carlos Santos Silva's intervention, we were amazed when he referred to the construction of the two metro stations as pharaonic projects. Faraonics! The only apparently faraonic thing that the previous government did was to keep the Reboleira station buried, as the Egyptians did with the tombs in the King's Valley. The only thing that was minimally pharaonic was this strategic option of keeping, beyond the acceptable one, the one that was a structural investment and that was missing. The gentlemen. Members, when they went up to the rostrum, they listed a set of problems that have a well-identified author and that well-identified author is that government that did not invest in ethics, it is that government that did not invest in circulating material, it is that government that did not invest in workers,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... is that government that did not invest in the machines, it is that government that has allowed the operation of the underground network of Lisbon and now, without realizing it — I think the honourable Members. Members continue to ignore — the dynamics of transport in the city, they think that the investments that are being made and that are aimed at releasing circulating material so that it can be made available in the time-by-time accesses can be implemented with the measures that are proposed. Therefore, it is shocking, it is even perplexing the lack of rejection with which they appear in this debate, as if they were totally alien to everything that led to the collapse of the metropolitan in Lisbon. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Fortunately, we can also respond with positive data. The question remained in the air: “What can indicate improvements? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” If we look at the one who was an option not to privatize, to keep in the sphere of public management, we can immediately respond to you who are talking to those children under 12 years of age, who today can circulate for free on the Caris, or with the older 65 years, who have access to a higher discount.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u86	But it is not the Lisbon Chamber that pays!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u87	Now they have a good demonstration of a transport policy that not only has social awareness as they value public transport as environmentally sustainable. It is the difference between having a strategy that values the operation of the Metropolitan Area and its transport system and having no strictly any strategy, wanting to sell to waste and invest structurally for four years. In short, at this moment we have a challenge which is seriously addressed by the banks that support the government, because it is these banks that have pointed out a path that passes through investment in human resources, which passes through the very urgent work at the Arroios station, which will enable it to give full capacity to function in the maximum power and which it will represent - and users will surely realize - a structural and fundamental change in the operation of public transport. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u88	For a second speech, Mr Carlos Santos Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It is truly amazing what we have just seen, at the moment, by Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the Socialist Party. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u90	The honourable Member spoke to us in strategic thinking, but he completely forgot the strategic thought of Eng. José Socrates, who pointed out an expansion plan for the subway that went beyond the Lisbon Council, and well. That is, he thought the subway to reach the entire metropolitan region and serve all the citizens of Lisbon. It happens that this government, which has a strategic and, I would say, galactic thought, resolves to confine the metro to the municipality of Lisbon. And, at the expense of this, he tries to hand over the elections, desperately, to the President of the House, Medina. This is strategic thinking, it is to use electorally from a situation to distort the electoral outcome.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u91	Who opened the Reboleira station? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u92	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, this government. But do you know who did it? It was the former Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u93	I was stopped four years ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u94	You want to finish, Mr. Carlos Santos Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u95	I will finish, Mr. President. You know something else, Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves? The Socialist Party of Eng.o Socrates left the country in bankruptcy and could not be realized the opening of the station of Reboleira. [[PS and PCP protests.]] It had to be exactly the previous government to find 60 million euros to make the Reboleira station. But it was not only the Reboleira station, it was the rest of CRIL ( Internal Regional Circular of Lisbon ), Mr. Member! The strategic thinking of the former Government also led to the closure of CRIL. Therefore, the populations in that area are naturally grateful for the fact that they have closed.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u96	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u97	I will finish, Mr. President. Hypocrisy, Mr Bruno Dias, is that you support a government and at the same time question the management of that same government. That's political hypocrisy!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u98	It costs him democracy!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u99	Mr Heitor Sousa, on what I have said today, put it in the joint position. Maybe they'll solve the subway problem! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u100	It costs him democracy, but it is better to get used to it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u101	Mrs. Members, let us move to the fourth point of our agenda, which consists in the general discussion of the projects of lein. 498 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Sanctions the use of poisons in the field of kinetic activity ( NAP), 502 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — establishes the mandatory presence of a health inspector in certain venatoria acts ( PAN ), 503 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — prohibits the use of clothing as a means of hunting (PAN and BE) and draft resolutions 809 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish a three-year moratorium regime for the hunting of common rolla and bran ( PAN ), 810 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish a uniform two-day regime for ordered and unordered kinetic land ( PAN) and 849 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government carry out a broad reflection on the situation of kinetic activity in Portugal as a basis for legislative adjustments in the field of hunting ( CFP ). For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating today five NAP initiatives that have disturbed the baronate of a sector which is considered unto be untouchable, but for the NAP there are no untouchable sectors. No, I'm not talking about the hunting sector, which no longer exists. This gave rise to the powerful and influential sector of the hunting industry. There are fewer hunters each time. Those who used to base their practice on traditional venatorial and ethical values, which respect the cycles of nature and the rural world, are becoming less and more numerous, but there are more and more compulsive shooters. It is in this sense that measures such as sanctioning the use of poisons are promoted. In addition, they are entities such as the SEPNA (Natural and Environmental Protection Service) and the ICNF (Instituto da Conservação da Nature and Forests) which confirm the death of several wild and domestic animals resulting from the use of poisons in the hunting activity. This reality is not duly and specifically guarded by the rules of the Criminal Code or by the law of hunting, which is materialised in a patent inability to act and dissuasive by SEPNA in these cases. The mandatory presence of a health inspector in all major hunting acts is a public health imperative, a measure defended by the Bastonary of the Order of Veterinary Physicians. The implementation of this measure, which has already occurred in Spain, is extremely important in the detection of diseases present in various species of hunting and transmissionable to humans. The uniform implementation of two days of hunting, as well as the three-year moratorium regime for the hunting of the common and the bree rabbit, represent measures that aim to protect the kinetic heritage, attenuating the notorious and increasing degradation of it. The ICNF considers the moratorium referred to as relevant and urgent and the Quercus (National Association of Conservation of Nature) defends a moratorium period of three to five years in order to avoid the expected extinction of the common roll. Finally, the NAP intends to prevent the licensing of new mats and the addition of dogs to existing ones. The law prohibits the deadly fight between animals but excludes hunting with mittens, a medieval practice in which dozens of dogs stimulated to the effect, often abused and deliberately starved to hasten the sense of hunting, deadlyly fighting a boar or dilating a fox. It says the baronate of the industry of this hunt without rules and without control that they are the defenders of nature. But does anyone believe that those who pay to slaughter animals—many avians—do so with the noble mission of preserving biodiversity and rural traditions? Oh, my God! They assume they like to have fun putting lead on everything that moves! They assume that animals have only value to use to be hunted! Next, some Members will talk about protecting the culture of the wild hunt, which is already known to the Portuguese: the NAP and experts from various areas that join the movement perceive nothing of hunting or of nature and want to destroy the rural world. But we don't see any proposals, it looks like everything's going well in the hunt. [[At the moment, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u103	I ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u104	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, after your usual language, are you today going to recognize one, only one, aspect of the hunting world that is wrong and needs a change? Is it today you're going to do it? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to tell the Senators of the Hunting and the Members who defend them that there are no harmless sectors, that we will not shut up and that we will not be silenced. [[Congrats from PS and BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u105	Mr Jorge Duarte Costa, from the Parliamentary Group of the Block of the Left, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the Party People - Animals - Nature by today's agendas. Anyone who hears the public reactions and the debate that was opened by the NAP initiatives may feel that what is on the table today in the Assembly of the Republic is the end of the hunt, the disarming of the hunters, perhaps the illegalization of the powder and a spectacular result: the entire species of dogs will be extinct, there will be infestation of the country by boars and others and the rural world will be desertification. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u107	The right and the ruleless hunters have opted for caricature and demagogy in this debate. What we have on the table is a set of technically supported proposals, which are based on opinions and opinions of experts and institutions in the sector and which must be appreciated by what they are, by their true content and not by the fiction that they want to be made around them. First of all, containment measures were presented to protect threatened kinetic heritage, a three-year moratorium on the hunting of the common-wing and the bream, as recommended by the Institute for Conservation of Nature and Forests, as recommended by the Quercus and which should be the policy of the Portuguese State with Spain, insofar as we know that the common-wing is today in values of its prevalence in nature three quarters below what existed 20 years ago and that the bream rabbit is 10 % of what existed 50 years ago. So hunting these species is putting them in danger and this moratorium is an emergency.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u108	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u109	Secondly, the ban on the use of poisons has been strengthened, which, although already provided for in the law, must be strengthened because it has concrete impacts on threatened species and the contamination of the natural environment. Third, a bill was presented, to which the Left Block associated itself and that it is co-author with the PAN, which concerns the end of hunting with dogs in cloth. This prohibition simply has to do with the fact that the Portuguese legal system already provides for the prohibition of animal fighting, considering this degrading practice for those who promote it, for the people who organize it. It is therefore an archaic and unacceptable form of animal suffering organized as an industry.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u111	These forms of hunting result in prolonged suffering and agony of thousands of dogs participating in these hunts, which are poorly conditioned for long periods and used exclusively for this type of hunt. This practice is an indignity that is totally archaic and must not continue. The proposal that is made is to simply not reproduce these mittens, which are, only counting on the legal, in number, more than 800 in our country, thus ending this practice, the production of these species for the sole effect of hunting in vestments, ending this degrading form of business that is hunting with dogs in vests.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u112	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u113	The right and the defenders of this hunting model cling to a wrong culture, a culture that does not match national kinetic traditions and the traditions of hunting in Portugal, those that have respected nature over the years and that do not correspond to this type of business and this type of culture. The right feels that there can be no limits, that the exploitation of the ecosystem, by the industrial activity of the hunt, should not have any rule. This is not even the way to a sustainable hunt. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u114	Mr João Ramos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Hunting is a popular, playful and sporty activity, an integral part of the rural world and contribution to the development of many rural territories. In view of the problems faced by the hunting sector, the CFP understands that it is essential to make a deep and broad reflection on the problem of hunting in Portugal, based on the principle that the kinetic resources are a well-renewable, but finite, and therefore it is important to promote its preservation and promotion within the framework of a policy of spatial planning. But this goal cannot be achieved only at the expense of limiting access to hunting for most hunters, those of the lowest resources. The decisions surrounding the hunt lack a wide debate so that decisions can be reached, correcting even the bad decisions of the past. It is in this context that the CFP proposes to promote a broad debate on the situation of cinematic activity in Portugal, with the participation and broad involvement of the different interests in the presence and extravading the entities that join the National Forestry Council. A reflection that forms the basis for any legislative and/or regulatory adaptations necessary to safeguard biodiversity, kinetic activity and regional development promoted by it. The 1999 General Bases of Hunting Act held the vote against the CFP which stated at the time that it would introduce new and serious reasons for concern and destabilization without any guarantee that, in the meantime, the kinetic ordering would be achieved. As the CFP has predicted, there are many reasons for concern in the sector today. The difficulties in access to hunting, either by associated costs or by the shortage of hunting, are a reality today. The shortage is related to the set of diseases that affect particularly the bream and hare, but also to the abandonment of agricultural activity or changes to agricultural practices. Major hunting causes serious damage to agricultural activity and carries with it a serious health problem as a reservoir of diseases and means of transmission to livestock herds. in this context, both the greater and the smaller hunting, health supervision is important for food safety, but may also have a contribution to regularization of the slaughter. These difficulties lead some hunter movements to defend the existence of moratoriums for some species, which already existed for specific sub-regions and with results, and also to defend the uniformization of periods, hunting days and species to be hunted in the unordered regime and ordered regime, claiming that such discrepancies are incomprehensible. There are also concerns about transparency in the processes around cinematic activity, such as hunters claiming the lack of receipts and others. The CFP has questioned the Government, which recognises the existence of the problems. We recognize that there are different interests which, being contradictory, cannot lead either to the gradual ban on hunting or to their elitistization and privatization or deregulation. The CFP does not accompany one another. For the CFP any legislative intervention may not abdicate from the hunt, nor from the principle that the kinetic resources are a public good and as such should be managed. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u116	Mr. Patrícia Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u117	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The projects of the PAN and the Left Block that we are discussing today are, in our understanding, technically unsustainable,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u118	What's wrong?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u119	...are politically dishonest...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u120	Dishonest? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u121	... and some are legally wrong, in particular the project that prohibits the use of poisons.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u122	But what's wrong? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u123	They also denote a total ignorance of what real Portugal is,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u124	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u125	...of what is ecological and what is conservation of nature.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u126	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u127	It also denounces the lack of knowledge of the importance of the economy that all hunting, tourism and restoration have for the rural world, for the interior areas, and, from now on, I invite Mr André Silva to visit them to get to know real Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u128	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u129	These projects are supposed to regulate the hunt, but the NAP, in its electoral program, assumes that he wants to end it. Therefore, it comes in a more or less ‘Pasito a pasito a pasito, soft,’ strategy, to bring the hunt down slowly, slowly.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u130	It's all right in the hunt! Everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u131	For example, the draft poison law is redundant, because the legislation already prohibits the use of poisons not only in hunting as in all other activities. It is a bad legislative practice to disperse by several diplomas the same norm and it is dishonest because there is no hunter who uses poison to supposedly hunt, as you say, the prey that he will then eat himself.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u132	All right! [[PAN's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u133	We also have, for example, a project on clothing, which is dishonest. The honourable Member has spoken here in degrading practice. Mr. Deputies, the suits are used to look for and raise the hunting that is on the ground, because people, the human being, the human animal, cannot get into the slaughter, while the dogs do.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u134	What's wrong? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u135	There are no fights between dogs, unlike what you want to pass to the less informed public opinion, and there are no fights between the dog and the boar...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u136	There are fights with javalis!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u137	There isn't, sir! There isn't! So again, I invite you to visit the camp. It is dishonest because without the uniforms there is no assembly hunt and it ends with the various breeds of sheep-dogs, and the honourable Member, who both defends biodiversity, will end with several breeds of them. It's dishonest because any baby dog has much more freedom to run in the field than any other animal stuck in an apartment, that, yes, has no freedom and certainly will not be as happy as a dog in the field. This project is also unsustainable because, contrary to what you are. Members here defend, we will have an uncontrolled, completely uncontrolled increase in predatory species, as in fact has already occurred, either in the Arrábida greenhouse or in the Malcata greenhouse. In fact, I hope that soon the visit can be scheduled, which the CDS proposed, to the Sierra da Malcata Natural Reserve and to the Guadiana Valley, and there Mr. Deputies can realize, in the field, what actually happens and the difference between a regime where there is chiing and where there is no hunting, where there is no even a rabbit, those rabbits that you want to protect.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u138	What's wrong? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u139	In conclusion, summarizing and concluding, because I don't have time to talk about all the projects, a party called animal and nature defender doesn't realize anything about habitat management or ecological balance.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u140	Presumption and water for sale!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u141	You don't know deep Portugal, real Portugal, you don't know, in particular, the interior territory...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u142	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u143	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I was saying, you do not know the interior territory, which, in fact, represents the largest part of the Portuguese territory. Mr Deputy, it is a challenge for the honourable Member, in particular, and for the honourable Members. Members of the Left Block leaving the comfort of your sofas...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u144	What is this about "the comfort of your sofas"? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u145	...and go to the countryside, go to the countryside, go to the interior of the country and meet the farmers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u146	Mrs. Deputy, it's been too long, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u147	Hunting takes all the social strata, not a baronato, as you defend here. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u148	Mr Nuno Serra has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we appreciate a set of diplomas that do not want to improve the animal condition, do not want to preserve biodiversity, do not want to help eradicate animal diseases, do not mitigate the wild and unethical hunt, only and they only aim to end the hunt in Portugal. However, it records the opportunity that the presentation of these initiatives has depoled in the rural world and in society in general: it has reinforced the importance that the hunting sector has for the rural economy, as well as for environmental and social development. This discussion also strengthens the hunting sector, encouraging the efforts of those who live and enjoy the rural world, which is precisely the opposite of the initiatives under discussion. However, it is regrettable that little serious form, dubious and camouflaged as the proposals are presented, which do not take their main objective. It quickly fell the mask of those who present legislative initiatives to the kilo or metro, far from the knowledge and reality in which they fit, where tolerance and freedom are replaced by prohibitions, prepotence and arrogance. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, is it serious to propose the prohibition of something which is already completely forbidden, as is the case with the use of poisons in hunting? Oh, my God! Do you really think a hunter will use poison in the hunt, which, then, will eat? Oh, my God! Mr President, let me make a correction: the hunters do not hunt domestic animals, as you have said. So domestic animals are not poisoned by hunters. [[Protests from the PAN Member, André Silva.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, will it be serious to propose the existence of a veterinarian in each venatoria act, knowing, or should it be known, that the hunting parts intended for marketing are necessarily led to a veterinary inspection, which has been done in Portugal for many years? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u150	Who said it was the Veterinary Physicians' Order Penthouse!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u151	Is it serious to compare hunting dogs and hunting dogs with what is happening in the fights between animals, which are already duly sanctioned and banned in legislative terms? Oh, my God! The gentlemen. Members are proud to be the only palladins in nature's protection. Is it not that, in the face of today's challenges, rather than prohibiting, abolishing, condemning, that we should recommend to the Government the fight against haemorrhage fever in rabbits by encouraging research?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u152	But has the PSD recommended yet?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u153	Should we not recommend greater monitoring of illegal hunting practices? Should we not recommend greater monitoring of disease and pest control by public authorities?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u154	Have you recommended the PSD yet? where are the PSD proposals?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u155	Should we not recommend greater control over the density of predators so that they cannot question cultures, material goods and often physical integrity of people, as is the case with the boar? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the lightening, the inconsistency and the obsolete content of these proposals is so great that even the value of the fines is still presented in shields! But for us, Mr President, it is no longer surprising the premeditated subversion of values. You know why? Because those who come here today ask for more hiring of veterinarians have never had the courage, nor the hombreity, to come to this Parliament to ask for the hiring of more family doctors and more and better health care for Portuguese and Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u156	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u157	That's right. This is the way of your society. Mr PAN, Mr Sr. Members of the Left Block, they courageously assume your goal, which is to end the hunt, so that the Portuguese, when deciding, know exactly what your values are and what your wishes are. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] [[Protests of PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u158	For an intervention, Mrs Júlia Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The unquestionable value of animal welfare, the protection of the nature and balance of ecosystems is the cornerstone of a modern, fair and competitive society. It's values we all share. The value attributed to nature and to the rural country is therefore unquestionable. We share concerns about public health; we share environmental concerns; we share concerns about the sustainability of kinetic exploitation; we also share with the populations, organizations and associations of the rural world common solutions for the socio-economic and territorial cohesion of our country. In summary, it is essential to alert the whole society to the following issues: poisons are banned and sanctioned throughout the country and in all activities; since 2004 the Antidoto Program which implements a strategy against the use of poisons; the sustainability of kinetic exploitation has technical, scientific and social issues that deserve our attention; abandonment of territories is certainly not the best solution. Mrs. Members, the future should be based on investment, support for management, monitoring and penalizing the prohibited use of poisons in all activities. In the future, the installation of a network of hunting meat clearance rooms with a view to their marketing should be supported; awareness-raising and penalties should be borne in mind in respect of animal welfare violations, either of clothing, of guard dogs, of pet dogs and of shepherds who are responsible for keeping flocks. The future should include strategies and measures to control diseases of the kinegetic species, such as the strategy announced by the Government in the viral hemorrhagic disease of the breeches, measures articulated with other countries in migratory species, such as the common rola, as well as the creation of habitats for its multiplication. I should like to conclude by saying that Portugal has had in recent years a strong and sustained evolution in matters of ordination and exploitation of kinetics. Currently, with the capable legislative tools that exist and which can, of course, be improved and with proactive organizations, which play a positive role in the so-called 'low-density territories', such as the Braganza district, where I come from, Portugal has a growing sensitivity to animal welfare and an increase in the importance of environmental issues. Portugal and the Portuguese require of us knowledge, responsibility and answers to the real problems of urban centers and also of the rural world. You can count on the Socialist Party for this debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u160	I have the floor, Mr Pedro do Carmo, for one speech, which has very little time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Telegraphically, I mean that the hunting sector is fundamental and essential for the development of the interior. It has its economic and cultural relevance. Hunting is a great fixer of people inside. Hunting defends the rural world, and the rural world must be seen as a guarantee of authenticity, as something genuine between people and nature and that we must preserve in this global world. The bills here reveal a lot of ignorance about reality, ignore that...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u162	I would like to conclude by saying that the time has already passed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u163	I shall conclude, Mr President. As I said, bills ignore that man is an integral part of the ecosystem... [[Congratulations from the PS and from the CDS-PP Members.]] ... and only with their participation can the ecosystem be kept balanced.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u164	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u165	Finally, I am on the left, I defend the hunt, I defend the rural world and I defend the animals. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u166	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In discussing this set of legislative initiatives, and as a first note, The Greens also consider it essential to make legislative changes in order to ensure or to reconcile the various interests involved, from the outset the defense of biodiversity, the kinetic activity, but also the regional development itself or the economic dynamics that the kinetic activity represents, especially in the low density territories. It is therefore necessary to ensure biodiversity, but at the same time it is necessary not to lose sight of an important data for discussion and that it has to do with hunting as an integral part of the rural world. We are talking about an element of importance not only as a contribution to combating the abandonment of the rural world but also to the ecological balance itself. In the field of hunting, the Greens, as a general thesis, maintain their position. In other words, since the kinetic resources are well renewable but finite, measures are required to guarantee and enhance their preservation, particularly within the framework of a policy of spatial planning, but always bearing in mind that this noble purpose cannot be sought only by excluding the pursuit of hunting by those who have less economic resources. It is therefore in all these variables that the Greens understand that the issue must be equationd. On the other hand, we believe that it will be advised that any amendments that are being made in this area are preceded not only by a technical assessment that may guide any legislative changes but also by an extended and intensive debate involving the various stakeholders. On the various initiatives today, here in discussion, we have serious reservations about some of them, some of them from a legal and other point of view, but, in the impossibility of referring to all these initiatives, I leave only two notes regarding the draft resolution of the NAP, which aims to establish a three-year moratorium regime for hunting common rolla and brevo rabbit. First of all, in the orderly regime, where management also goes through the control and identification of the number of species that exist at a given time, until it is known whether or not there can be its hunt, the fact that there is a long and prolonged moratorium could lead to the abandonment of some land. Hunters may feel that it is not worth sowing, creating shelters, food and drink, etc. When, after, they can't hunt. In addition, it is also necessary to bear in mind that hunters often go to the ground and at the end of the day do not bring animals, that is, they end up going with this intention and will but do not hunt. Therefore, it will not once again be the argument of excessive hunting that can serve as an exclusive justification, until there are other factors which have already been mentioned here, namely the fact that the roll is a migratory bird and, in the case of the rabbit, there is hemorrhagic fever. This is just one example that reinforces the need to avoid precipitation in this area. The Greens therefore consider that, before any legislative amendments, we should be in the possession of technical studies to substantiate these possible amendments and that there should be an extended debate involving all those concerned and therefore all the interests at stake. For the Greens, only in this way can problems be solved without creating others. Hunting must continue to have rules, which must be respected, and where amendments are intended they should not be made hastily. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u168	Mr João Ramos has the floor, too.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To conclude, I would like to reaffirm that the CFP defends the existence of the hunt. Regular and balanced hunting contributes to the control and balance of species and is therefore essential to ensure biodiversity and ecological balance. The PCP argues that the hunt must be accessible to all hunters, cannot be privatized or elitisted. The kinetic resources are a public good and must be managed as such. We cannot ignore the many and serious problems that the hunting sector is going through and therefore action must be taken to hunt and hunt. This debate has demonstrated the fairness of the CFP proposals by proposing a broad debate on the situation of kinetic activity in Portugal, with a broad and broad participation, so that this reflection serves as a basis for any legislative and/or regulatory adaptations necessary to safeguard biodiversity, kinetic activity and regional development that hunting can enhance. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u170	Mrs. Members, we have concluded the debate of the projects of lein.os 498, 502 and 503 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), in general, in conjunction with draft resolutions Nos 809, 810 and 849 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). We move on to the last point of our agenda, which is that of the appreciation of the projects of lein.os 497 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — prohibits the implementation of new concessions for the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the national territory ( BE and PAN) and 515 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Provides for the prior consultation of municipalities in administrative procedures relating to prospecting and research, experimental exploitation and exploitation of hydrocarbons ( PS ), generally in conjunction with draft resolutions 840 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Transparency in the process of prospecting and research of hydrocarbons and drawing up a Green Paper, contributing to the strengthening of technical and scientific mechanisms to support political decision ( PSD ) and 846 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The suspension of the research and exploration of hydrocarbons off Aljezur and the national reassessment of the other concession contracts ( PCP ). Mr Jorge Duarte Costa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This issue of oil concessions in national territory has been a recurrence in the Assembly of the Republic, depending on the imbroglio that the 15 concessions made over the last few years by successive governments have opened in the energy system and in the planning for the exploitation of hydrocarbons in Portugal. The Left Block and the PAN are an integral part of the very comprehensive movement that has been expressed in Portuguese society against the exploitation of hydrocarbons, against oil concessions on the Portuguese coast and this process has been advanced not only by the very initiative that this movement has had, becoming itself, in the greatest public protagonist of the debate on climate change and in the awareness of the importance of this issue, but also by the result of irregularities and non-compliances with various deadlines, which have caused many of these concessions to fall and lapse. Today, the proposal we have on the table at this plenary is different from those concessions and those mistakes of the past. What we are going to discuss today is how to avoid new errors in the future and how to put Portugal in line with a serious commitment to combat climate change, i.e. to keep unexplored reserves in the soil. This essential, elemental commitment has been systematically emerging in the international debate on climate change, in order not to add new hydrocarbon exploration points to those already in operation and thus to encourage and pave the way for a transition strategy for renewable energy. In Germany, internal combustion engines have already been banned by 2030, i.e. the transition to the ban is in progress by 2030. In Ireland, all investments in fossil energies are already cut. There are large cities around the world that have already stated their way to the 100% renewable energies, such as San Francisco, Stockholm, Reichavique. Paris, Athens, Madrid and Mexico City have already announced the end of the movement of diesel cars until 2025. Therefore, the imposition of serious restrictions on the exploitation and consumption of fossil fuels is the strategy that should guide countries that take the fight against climate change seriously. Our Prime Minister has assumed the aim of Portugal to be carbon neutral in 2050 and the question is this: while we announce the goal of the country to be carbon neutral in 2050, how can it be possible to keep open the possibility not only of existing concessions to enter into exploitation but also of new concessions, which today have not been granted, which today do not exist, can be considered a problem in the future? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u172	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u173	This option makes no sense and, therefore, if there is a clarification that must be given today and an example of Portugal at the international level, in the debate on climate change, it is precisely that, on this subject, it is to say that in Portugal, the reserves that may exist on the ground will eventually remain on the ground and will not be exploited. This is a law for climate, it is a law for the transition to renewables and to mark a turning point in the Portuguese energy strategy, saying that what is on the ground is in the soil that remains, because Portugal takes seriously the fight against climate change. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u174	To continue the presentation of the same project, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Donald Trump stated that in the coming weeks he will take « a great decision », with regard to the link between the United States and the Paris Agreement. By not qualifying the elevation of semantics used in these declarations, as is usual, we are concerned that Portugal will make a major decision in relation to new contracts for the development and exploration of hydrocarbons in national territory. Will this Parliament show the same determination as it showed when it rejected the implementation of the nuclear industry in Portugal? Oh, my God! Without calling into question the nine concessions that still exist in Portugal — these will be the subject of another debate — today we can fulfil a wish that the citizens have expressed: to have a country without exploitation of hydrocarbons. And here is not the politically correct one: either they reject new concessions, or they keep the fable of decarbonisation. In contrast, the PS's proposal suggests that the autarchs be heard in the process of new concessions. But if this hearing is not binding, then what is it for? Oh, my God! To throw sand into the eyes of those who understand that the sustainable development of Portugal passes through completely clean and renewable energies and not by perpetuating an obsolete model based on fossil energies? Oh, my God! Let's stop playing environmentalists and do what needs to be done. We have the courage to send a simple but clear message to Europe and to the world: in Portugal, we do not want to exploit oil and gas, we want to be reference leaders in the energy transition, and this is not done with rhetorical measures. We listen to citizens, environmental associations and alarming signs from the scientific community. The time for the end of fossil fuels is now! The big decision is now! [[Congratulations from BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u176	You have the floor now, too, for an intervention, Mr Carlos Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, the Socialist Party obviously thanks this debate on such an important issue and we take advantage of it to say that the legal regime of exploration, development and exploitation of oil, from our point of view, needs to be updated. This is a commitment which the Government itself has already made, and it must do so as soon as possible. We understand these proposals, we understand their content, because they arise as a result of what has somehow happened with the PSD/CDS government. We must not forget that the PSD/CDS government handed over half of the Algarve for exploitation to a company of a businessman they all know, and did all of this to one week of the elections.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u178	And that's the problem? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u179	The country was informed that this happened by the Journal of the Republic, when it was finally registered in the same Diary. But worse than this, sirs. Members, in order to aggravate this already atypical situation, from our point of view, this concession of half the Algarve, for oil exploration, which, as I said, was handed over to a company of a businessman who everyone knows, who had no employees, who did not have financial capacity, who did not have the knowledge of the sector, which was absolutely indispensable to act on this matter, but was nevertheless delivered, as the people say, by tuta and half. Fortunately, this situation has been overcome by the PS Government, but there is no doubt that it has seriously compromised the transparency and credibility of these processes, which naturally led to the presentation of several proposals, among which are being discussed today in this plenary. ... the transparency and credibility of these processes, which naturally led to the presentation of various proposals and also to those which are being discussed today, in this plenary. However, the State must be from our point of view and, I think, also from all of you. Ladies and gentlemen, there is, of course, a good person and there are contracts which have been signed by the State and which must be respected. [[PSD protests.]] The State is not in a position to disregard or cancel the budget for a number of reasons. It is also good to be clear and we can make it clear that the PS Government is not afraid of a regime that is demanding not only in the assessment of environmental impact, as it has been said, but also in the public consultation, making all these processes complex and that have impacts on local populations, as transparent as possible, involving the populations and entities of each locality. Although we consider it necessary to reassess the legal regime for oil exploration, we present the bill because we believe it is absolutely essential to ensure the involvement of local populations and entities in order to ensure the appropriate dialogue to ensure the best solution and the best model to satisfy the interests of the people. It is clear that this is our intention and it is our will that in the new contracts we can guarantee and ensure that this dialogue is in favour of the people and in clear commitment to the interests of the populations of these localities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u180	To present the PSD draft resolution, Mr. José Carlos Barros has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our draft resolution, one of the initiatives under discussion today, pursues two essential objectives. Firstly, clarification and transparency objectives. Transparency that the PS claims but does not practice or at least has not practiced in this area. Secondly, technical and scientific data, mechanisms that enable informed political decisions. All of this — information, transparency and rigour — is what the Socialist Party and the Government have found less in this matter. Let us see: on 14 December 2016, a PS-Algarve communiqué « welcomed...» — I am quoting — «... with the government decision to terminate contracts for the exploration and exploitation of gas and oil ». Azar: then, on January 11, this year, less than a month later, the country was surprised with the reality of an authorization to carry out a research hole in the sea off Aljezur. Surprises don't stay here. It is that there was a narrative, that the contracts were exclusively due to a malnourished minister, a malnourished government, the PSD / CDS. And after all, you will see and this search hole refers to a contract signed in 2007, in the time of a Socialist Party Government!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u182	Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u183	Now, without the need for legal and environmental scrutiny, so invoked and so proclaimed concerning other contracts, as if this ballot were in accordance with the names rather than what is really at stake. After all, in the midst of all this, what is the position of the Socialist Party? However, it has been publicly known that, in December last year, while PS-Algarve drafted statements to congratulate the government for terminating contracts, the same Government was in the United States, in a promotion action, presenting offshore oil as an investment opportunity in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u184	I'd say! Is that what you're talking
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u185	In addition to the area relating to the contract signed in 2007, the promotion map even includes the area of the contract that has already been revoked, thus assuming that this revoked contract will result in a new contract in the future. It is understood that this confuses people, but indeed it has been. It is not surprising, therefore, that in this debate there is again everything, in a kind of seeing who gives the most: if the Left Block, which proposes the pure and simple repeal of the legislation which, in our country, covers the subject under discussion; if the Portuguese Communist Party, which recommends to the Government to do the opposite of what you are saying and what you are doing, in particular to authorize search holes in the offshore; if, finally, the Socialist Party itself, which, in the year of autarchic elections, is now calling on the municipalities with a proposal for a legislative amendment which is unknown, punctual and without practical effects and which is only understood to put on the flag of the short-term electoral calendar.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u186	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u187	It follows, contradictions, saying one thing and doing another, that there are, of course, concerns that justify the presentation of our draft resolution, insisting on what we have been giving priority in this matter. We therefore call on the Government to prepare a detailed report on the situation of contracts in force—and not just on one or another, to choose, according to the year in which it was signed or according to who it is, but on everyone else, by assessing the legal and environmental aspects—and to draw up a green book on this subject, involving the scientific community, which takes account of the assumptions of the Paris Agreement, which makes it possible, in fact, to continue the path of sustainable transition to a new low-carbon energy paradigm and that these elements of a technical and scientific nature can serve as a basis for informed and, therefore, responsible political decisions. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u188	To present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal from the CFP places three central elements. The first, concerning the concrete situation currently occurring in the south of the country, in which we propose the suspension of the research and exploration of hydrocarbons off Aljezur until the conclusion and public disclosure of environmental impact assessments and the impact on other economic activities. The second element, of a national scope, proposes the re-evaluation of concession contracts for all these aspects, considering the experience already established in this context and ensuring the protection of the environment and the defence of the interests of the country at all levels. Finally, our reaffirmation of an undeniable issue in this debate: the need for State intervention and public control in the processes of prospecting, research and exploitation of our energy resources, ensuring that the decision on the exploitation of the resource is compatible with safeguarding environmental values and public interest. Less than one year ago, on 1 July 2016, the approval by this Assembly of draft resolution No 307 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) the CFP — to a large extent, of the proposals put forward here — has been a positive step, an important step towards the fairest regime we have today, with the requirement for proper assessment and weighting of the impacts these activities can have on each situation. It is therefore essential to implement the measures already mentioned: the strengthening of means in the competent services, the effective participation of the populations, the autarchs, environmental associations, economic, social and cultural actors in these processes. As the CFP has been stressing, the big issue is that of the incompatibility between protecting environmental values and developing other economic activities and, on the one hand, the exploration and exploitation of oil and/or natural gas. Since these doubts and concerns are legitimate, the CFP reaffirms that the country cannot at first reject the need to know and consider the use of its non-renewable energy resources, including hydrocarbons. We reaffirm: we need to study, evaluate, weigh. To study the viability of its commercial exploitation and potential benefits; to evaluate environmental risks and the possibility of eliminating them; to weigh impacts on other economic activities. Only with this study, only with this assessment and this weighting is that the country will be able to, in an informed manner, make a decision. National interests cannot be committed to any company in the energy sector, and the CFP therefore considers that new contracts for the granting, prospecting and research of oil and/or natural gas should not be signed without the necessary environmental and economic impact studies being carried out in advance. Finally, it is essential to take appropriate measures for the recovery of public control over the energy sector, as well as for the development of technical and scientific capacities in this sector. This is the meaning of a policy in the defence of sovereignty and development to which the Portuguese country and people have the right, this is the meaning of our proposal. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u190	Mr Hélder Amaral, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I believe that this debate is very serious and that it deserves to be done with rigour and not with insinuations or clumsy accusations such as those we have seen here, in particular by the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u192	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u193	And rigour presupposes, perhaps, to use the expression by Mr Prime Minister, who says — and I will try not to mention it many times, because I always run the risk of possibly not telling the truth — that the country should know its resources, without forgetting the renewable energies. I think you're absolutely right, one thing is not incompatible with the other.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u194	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u195	Any normal country should want to know the resources it has. If you explore them, how you exploit them and who should be involved in decision-making, it is a discussion that we should have here and try to find the maximum consensus. None of this presupposes accusations, insinuations, nor does it confuse climate change with renewable energy, putting everything in the same bag as if one thing was incompatible with the other. Therefore, it is not serious to mix the debate. I believe that we should, in fact, involve the authorities and, if necessary, review the legislation for the exploitation of resources, particularly in terms of hydrocarbons. We must obviously, as the country has successfully done, recognised in all instances, bet on renewables. The country has today—and it compares well with other countries, particularly the euro area, Europe and all over the world—, a reasonable use of its natural resources. So I would say that if we need to review the law, we must review it. But we cannot do strict debates in Parliament either by ignoring what is being done by the authorities of the Republic, who have custody and take decisions on this matter. I must say that I have consulted petition No 5 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) and the response of the National Fuel Market Authority and we found out what? Of course, Portugal has licensed these types of holdings since 1939 ; Portugal compares in comparative studies with countries such as Spain, Canada, Brazil, the United States, Ireland, the Netherlands, Norway, France, etc. ; Portugal has achieved, in a very reasonable way, a balance between environmental and social protection, biodiversity, tourism, economic activities in general, and the rural world. And he says more — that it was the doubt that could be overcome, of the initiatives presented here – in point 9 : « As regards the concessions referred to above... », i.e. all the ones we are discussing today, «... it is still important to point out that there is no obligation in the survey phase of any environmental impact study, in the same way that no hydraulic fracture is planned using only conventional methods (...) ». In other words, there is no fracking, which is what scares and, in fact, has an environmental impact. But if any entity uses these non-conventional methods, an environmental impact study is required. This is preserved in the contracts, it is preserved in the law. The gentlemen. Have Members ignored what the National Fuel Market Authority says? It is clear that we can always improve, put more rigour, add more demands, respect the power of the authorities—that I too respect, and it is not only the second, fourth and fifth...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u196	Sir, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u197	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that we should in fact be stricter or even tighten the mesh a little further. But, let us be clear, it is not worth bringing legislation that adds absolutely nothing, only lack of rigour, confusion and perhaps draw the focus from what is important and in which we all agree: protection of the environment, but knowing our resources. If we understand explore them, one day we will explore them. As and when, we'll be here to decide. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u198	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u199	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, we have several projects under discussion on diversified issues, even different. I would like to tell you that the Greens have not presented any legislative initiative for this discussion, because we have a project in the committee — which we will have to vote for next Thursday — asking for what? The suspension of research contracts and exploitation of existing hydrocarbons, with the aim of a true involvement and feeling of the community, mainly of local communities. Looking at the projects that the other parliamentary groups here brought to the discussion, we found that, on the contracts currently in force, there is one that does not touch on this issue, that of the Left Block and the PAN, and that of the PCP, also calls for the suspension of these contracts, so that they are reassessed. We believe that this is a matter that should be taken into account, because, ladies and gentlemen. Members, some solution must have these contracts, which are truly against the interests of the sustainable development of the various regions affected, against the interests of the most sustainable activities of these regions and against the interests of the people. They are also in contradiction with the country's commitments to combat climate change and the objectives it has to have in this area, and of course to drag, to be effective, concrete measures for the pursuit of these objectives. PSD and PS projects give us the idea that they don't bring anything back. It's from those situations where they seem to mean something, but they don't solve anything at all. It should be noted that the PS asks for a prior consultation of the municipalities — which the Assembly of the Republic, even by an initiative of the Greens, has already resolved, in particular with the environmental impact assessment at the research stage and at the exploration stage — but which is not binding. Therefore, neither heats nor cools. Regarding the PSD project, a detailed report on existing contracts is requested and I ask why. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I also think that it will not have a great practical effect. This is the reading that the Greens initially make of the projects that are under discussion. As I said, the Block and the NAP project does not present any solution to existing contracts, it aims at future contracts. We from this government already have the Prime Minister's assurance that there will be no new contract signatures, but the truth is that this project is aimed at other legislatures. Therefore, we must lay down a rule in Portuguese legislation on the impossibility of research and exploitation of hydrocarbons, other than for scientific purposes with certain rules.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u200	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u201	I will finish, Mr. President. The Greens obviously do not see any obstacles to the implementation of this proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u202	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u203	To close the debate, Mr Jorge Costa, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u204	Mr President: To a large extent, this debate has taken refuge in the past. We have been talking about the contracts in force, the assessment of future environmental impacts, but of what the Left Block and the PAN here have brought here little has been said. However, what is at stake in the draft law of BE and PAN is the future, namely whether we want an answer, in terms of energy model, that tells the world very clearly that Portugal closes the dossier of the exploitation of hydrocarbons. It is because there is no policy of transition to renewables, of response to climate change and in line with the Paris Agreement that is compatible with new concessions — today, non-existent, but which may exist in the future — with a view to the exploitation of oil and gas in the national territory.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u205	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u206	That is what we had to say today. But with clarity and frankness, we only heard Mrs Heloísa Apolónia joining the project of the Left Block and the PAN...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u207	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u208	...to say that, in the future, there is no longer any hole, it is not the exploitation of hydrocarbons. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-09.u209	Mrs. Members, who arrived at the end of the discussion of the projects of lein. 497 and 515 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and draft resolutions 840 and 846 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) it remains to inform me that the next plenary meeting will be held tomorrow at 3 p.m. with the 15-hour debate with the Prime Minister on employment policy under Article 224 ( a) ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 23 minutes.]]
