ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I ask the Authorities to open the galleries. Before we enter the agenda period, I ask Mr Duarte Pacheco to announce the file, which he will do with the usual proficiency.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, the drafts of lein. 548 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Alter the Law of Nationality ( PAN), 549 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — The Statute of the GNR rests justice on the right to a holiday ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 30 / 2017 of 22 March) ( PCP ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 550 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amends the Labour Code and the Labour Procedure Code by introducing amendments to the labour contract presumption regime and to a certain resolution ( PAN ), 554 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Restricts the use of temporary work and combats false temporary work ( BE ), 545 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Determines the elimination of costs for the maintenance of contractual balance ( CMEC) and energy acquisition contracts ( EDP ) with EDP and other companies in the electro-producer sector ( PCP ), 546 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates educational institutions for school integration ( PCP ) and 547 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Statute of the GNR for the weekly reference time ( first amendment to Decree-Law No 30 / 2017 of 22 March) ( PCP ), which falls to 1. the Commission. The draft resolutions 918 / XIII were also introduced ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake urgent rehabilitation and expansion of the EB School, 2, 3 El-Rei D. Manuel I, Alcochete, and removes all asbestos fibration plates ( CDS-PP ), which drops to 8. the Commission, 919 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government conduct an audit of the existing training capacities in the various health units of the National Health Service ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 920 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Research and innovation in the agroecology sector ( The Greens ), 921 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Prevention and combat of cyberbullying ( The Greens ), 922 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the State laboratories of the Ministries of Agriculture and the Sea ( CFP ), 923/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the support, monitoring and agricultural advice services of the Ministry of Agriculture ( CFP ), 924 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of information on labour rights and the strengthening of supervision within the framework of labour relations ( NAP ), 925 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends the elimination of excessive income in the so-called costs of maintaining contractual balance ( BE) and 926 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government that the amount to be determined in the final adjustment of costs for maintaining the contractual balance shall be reduced to the 2018 and subsequent electricity tariffs ( PS ) and Parliamentary assessment No 37 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 49 / 2017 of 24 May 2017 — Creates the Single Contact Point for International Police Cooperation ( PSD ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's start the agenda. The first point is a current discussion by PSD marking under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic on the withdrawal of three territories from the black offshore list. To open the debate, Mr António Leitão Amaro, of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u4	Mr President, Mr State Secretary for Tax Affairs, Mr State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The Government of the Left decided at the end of 2016 to withdraw three territories from the black offshore list. Do so, we now perceive, without the opinion of the Tax Authority or even against the opinion of the Tax Authority, without meeting the mandatory criteria of Portuguese law, that the Tax Authority says they are imperative and not voluntary. In deciding to withdraw three territories from the black offshore list, the Government has undermined control because transfers have no longer had to be communicated to the Tax Authority by banks in financial companies that do so. With this, the Government created, by its decision, a real tax blackout in the information received and received by the Tax Authority, information which states, inter alia, that between 2009 and 2015 4800 transfers were made to the territories of Uruguay, the island of Man and Jersey, amounting to EUR 1800 million. That is, before it was an average of EUR 23 million that went out each month to these territories and that the Tributary Authority now, by decision of this government, which is not substantiated, ceases to receive. This is a blackout decided by the government. But so far, the government said that it was a matter of different control techniques. There we go; it's a worse control, or the lack of it! It is important that the country also has the notion that, with this decision, this government, wealth, income, relative or related to these territories, they have become less taxed. In the discussion of the last State budget, we talked a lot about the famous Mortagua tax, such a high-value real estate tax. I remember that Mrs. Mariana Mortágua, initially, did not want to apply her higher taxation when the immobiles were in offshore. What has this government done? Looks like you did the will. by removing from the black offshore list these three territories, the buildings of entities based there cease to be subject to the additional IMI, cease to be subject to aggravated taxation in IMT and to aggravated taxation in IMI. Therefore, it is not only the end of communication to the Tax Authority, it is the lowest tax. But it is not just here; the capital incomes they had, when related, paid or received by offshore companies, a tax of 35 % to 50 % increased, with this government, ended. In other words, there was not only a suspected declassification, as there is a decision to reduce taxation for these territories and it is a decision of this government. In the meantime, what has the government been doing? It is not just the decision that is substantially wrong; the way in which the government has conducted this whole process only raises and aggravates suspicion. in the gate that declassified the territories the government did not explain why it complied with the law and how it complied with it, where it was the opinions of the Tax Authority and where it was demonstrated that the law was fulfilled. In February this year we questioned the government on this matter and the government has not responded for three months. The Minister of Finance came here, we asked him, and he replied: "No, the law is fulfilled, Mrs. Members, the law is complied with and we have the opinion of the Tax Authority". This statement lasted a week, because a week later, the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs went to the European Parliament to deny the Minister: 'After all, there is no opinion of the Tax Authority'. We were lost. We asked the Prime Minister. And what did he tell us here last week? He told us, and I quote: « The declassification has been made, the Tax Authority has been heard and was based on the announcement by the Tax Authority that the Government has taken a decision ». What are you saying? The Government, minutes after the Prime Minister said that, denied it and showed that the Prime Minister had failed the truth to Parliament. Otherwise we see the documentation that the Government has sent us on the three territories: as regards the island of Man, there is no opinion, the Government has not sent and therefore the Prime Minister has failed in the truth. As regards the second territory, Jersey, on the one hand, rejects the Government in the substance when it states in paragraph 6 that the criteria must be met and then leaves an open decision. For Uruguay, what does the Tax Authority say? What did the government send us? Did you send us any advice from the Tributary Authority to support your decision? No, what he did was to send an opinion, requested by the previous government, which was unfavourable, which did not authorize the exit of these territories from the blacklist. In other words, what the Government did, minutes later, was to reject fully the Prime Minister. We have a decision without an opinion in the case of the Isle of Man and against the Tax Authority in the case of Uruguay.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u5	It has already exceeded the time you had, Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u6	I will now finish, Mr President. The government has told us two things. Firstly, he told us that this withdrawal from the Black List of Offshores would improve control because the Tax Authority would have more information. Mr Secretary of State, the OECD, who made a report on Uruguay, which is the one you invoked last week, says that for 17 times requests for information have been sent to Uruguay and Uruguay has not responded to more than two thirds of these requests.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u7	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u8	Finally, the Government says that OECD criteria have changed. Mr Secretary of State, OECD criteria...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u9	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u10	I will finish, Mr. President. The OECD classification is prior to the decision of the Tax Authority to reject the exit from Uruguay. So there's a suspect. We have transfers that are not subject to control, that pay less taxes and the blame is on this government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u11	For an intervention on behalf of the Government, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs, Fernando Rocha Andrade.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's debate may be a good opportunity to discuss tax policy on privileged tax territories. For this, however, it is necessary to advance away the forest from fantasies and falsehoods with which CDS and PSD surrounded the issue. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Following a practice that is already becoming systematic, PSD and CDS distort statements by government members to accuse them of contradictions that clearly do not exist. Following an innovative practice, they now also invent legal rules to point out illegalities that clearly do not exist either. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Starting with the alleged contradictions: the Minister of Finance and I myself said that, on the issue of the withdrawal of countries or territories from the list, there were several AT information, which is true. The Minister of Finance and I said that the review work on the list had been accompanied by the AT, which is true. Finally, only I was confronted with the fanciful assertion that the door should have been preceded by an AT opinion on its contents, under the penalty of illegality, and I replied that such an opinion did not exist or had to exist, something that the Minister of Finance would also have clarified if it had been faced with the same nonsense.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u13	How funny! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u14	On the issue of illegality, it should be made clear, firstly, that no opinion from the AT is necessary for the approval of this portarium, contrary to what is now implied by several Members. Secondly, the inclusion or exclusion of a country from the list results in a comprehensive weighting of the criteria laid down in the General Tax Law — in fact, the Tax Studies Centre which writes so — and that weighting is, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, to the Government and not to the services. The Government has done this weighting, the government takes its decision and does not hide behind anyone's opinions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the fundamental issue, it is also important to mention the following: the fact that the Portuguese list of tax havens is the largest in Europe leads to difficulties in diplomatic and economic relations with these countries and territories, and this has led in the past to the fact that at least two governments — one from the PS, one from the PSD and CDS — have promised in various ways to several of these countries that would be removed from the list. The Government also believes that the exchange of tax information is more important than the presence on the blacklist. The Portuguese list, the famous control — which, in fact, now seems very important after the last four years has not been — can actually be deceived by mere triangulation, in which the transfer goes through another territory. [[Protests by CDS-PP Members Cecilia Meireles and Nuno Magalhães.]] on the contrary, the exchange of information allows to obtain the data that are necessary for taxation. Thus, the list referred to in Article 63. o-D of the General Tax Law should thus be progressively redirected to a list of non-cooperating jurisdictions. in fact, no jurisdiction is available for an effective exchange of information with a country that keeps it on the blacklist, so removing the country from the list is thus a necessary condition for raising the veil of opacity of income and heritage that favors tax evasion. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The Government has thus defined a set of criteria — the existence of exchange of information mechanisms, the positive assessment of these territories by the OECD, the absence of obstacles to tax cooperation — which are described in Article 63. o-D of the General Tax Law and any of the jurisdictions that have been removed from the list comply with these criteria. Finally, the Government also proposed in the State Budget for 2017 an amendment to the General Tax Law which allows the application of aggravated rates for privileged tax territories, even if they are not on the list, with special relations. In summary, the Government has chosen to give greater relevance to the exchange of information, because, in line with the international developments of recent years, this is the best way to discover and tax incomes that are hidden through preferential taxation schemes. We assume this option with frontality, frontality which is totally lacking in the PSD, which, due to the lack of willingness to speak either of economic results or of public finances, opted for this distraction, which, in fact, contradicts the positions which, as a government, took up against other States. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u15	On behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: What we are debating here today is the political decision taken by this government in December 2016 to withdraw from the black list of offshore three territories: Uruguay, the island of Man and Jersey. We have some information about this decision, but we lack other information. We know who made the decision, it was a political decision made by the government, and we know why the government made the decision. The Left Block does not accept or agree with the reasons given, but they are political justifications, are known and the arguments are clear. What is left to know about this decision? It remains to be seen whether this decision has met all the legal requirements and whether this decision is politically correct, therefore the political decision to remove these territories from the blacklist. The General Tax Law does not require the issuing of an opinion by the Tax Authority for the taking of these decisions. Perhaps it should be binding, it was in good sense that it should, but not binding, there is no legal need to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u17	So how do you know?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u18	What the law does is to establish indicative criteria that determine whether or not it belongs to a territory to this black offshore list. The problem in the analysis of this matter lies precisely in the definition of these two principles. Firstly, the Tax Authority did not issue specific opinions for this decision-making—it should have issued, but it is not legally binding to do so— nevertheless, the opinions it issued, which are old and partial, provide an understanding of the criteria set out in the General Tax Law which is different from what the Government is defending today. Therefore, when the Tributary Authority had the opportunity to do so, it was decided by a verification of the criteria that are in the Law, making it clear that, in its perspective, these criteria were mandatory and not indicative, although it assumed that a comprehensive assessment would be necessary. And this interpretation is contrary to the government's interpretation that brought us here. So what we need to know about this decision, first of all, is whether the opinion, or interpretation, of the Tax Authority has been respected in this decision, and what we have in writing is contrary to the decision taken. And if it has not been respected, the Government must take responsibility for taking a decision which does not have the full backing in the opinion of the Tax Authority — in fact, that is why the Left Block called to Parliament the Director of the Tax Research Centre responsible for drawing up these opinions. Secondly, it is necessary to understand whether the Law is clear enough and, if it is not clear enough, we will probably have to fine-tune the Law so that the issue of opinions is mandatory or to establish a hierarchy of criteria that is clear, in order to avoid dualities in its interpretation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u20	I shall finish this analysis of the problem in question, which exists and for which the Government has responsibilities, addressing me to the honourable Members. Members of the PSD and the CDS to tell them the following: they do not think that the sudden interest of the PSD and CDS in this matter is not noticed. I would say, and I think it is understood, that this sudden interest is much more because of lack of political line than because of excessive concern with transparency or tax planning. If they had so much concern about this matter, why is it written in the same opinions that we now use to contradict the government — and well! — that Secretary of State Paul Nuncio promised the representatives of the island of Jersey to remove them from the blacklist?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u21	That's a lie! It was the time of the Eng.o Socrates government!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u22	If transparency was a priority, why have they not published the data on the same blacklist for four years, which the Law required them to publish? If the investigation is so important, why did you approve a tax amnesty that prevented tax investigation of various episodes of fraud? If the fight against planning is so important, why have you approved an IRC code (tax on the income of the public) that actively facilitates planning? So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, do not make this debate an "RERT" (exceptional system of taxation) to amnify your own responsibilities in this area by using the Government. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u23	You have the floor on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Miguel Tiago.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The decision to remove these three jurisdictions from the blacklist is a political decision that must be syndicated and, by bringing this debate to Parliament, the PSD also allows all reasons for this decision to be clarified. A first question which must be clarified by the Secretary of State is whether or not there is a contradiction between the opinion of the Tax Authority, which notes that the alignment between the Portuguese blacklist and the OECD criteria of phase 2 of the OECD re-evaluation is to be promoted, and whether or not this is a decision of the Government that incorporates this re-evaluation that the OECD promotes. But all other issues on the basis of this decision must be examined. Despite the importance of the document that the Government has sent to the Assembly of the Republic, as well as the clarifications it has provided here today, it is still important to detail and understand exactly the reasons for this decision and the guarantees that the Government has to comply with and provide information by the jurisdictions that have now been removed from the blacklist. The ideal was that there were no blacklists, the ideal was that there were no offshores and that there were no jurisdictions that did not cooperate with other jurisdictions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u25	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u26	But we need to be sure that, when we remove a jurisdiction from the blacklist, there are real and substantiated reasons and guarantees to do so safely and with confidence in that jurisdiction.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u27	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u28	The fundamental, political question that we continue to debate is that of offshore and fiscal paradise. Mrs. Members, we must not fail to denounce the hypocrisy of the PSD and the CDS, the parties who actively promoted a bloody resources of the country without looking at it,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u29	It's amazing!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u30	... without looking at EUR 10 billion leaving the country for blacklist territories, and now being scandalized with an amendment to the blacklist. The territory to which most of the EUR 10 billion was located, Panama, was on the blacklist, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. The PSD and the CDS today will certainly want to lose off-shore parties, because that is what they actually promoted while they were in the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u31	But we did not remove Jersey, the island of Man and Uruguay from the blacklist! That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u32	There is still a problem to resolve, which has to do with the non-cooperating jurisdictions, and the CFP proposed in this House that transfers and trade relations with those jurisdictions should be prohibited. How will PSD and CDS vote, as well as PS? How will these parties vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u33	Exactly! [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u34	Should we or should we not prohibit relations with territories that do not provide us with information about operations with them?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u35	They're very strong... talking!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u36	The CFP believes that it is not and therefore proposes that this proposal, like the other one it has tabled, be voted on next week in the Assembly of the Republic, in the working group that has been working on it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u37	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u38	The other proposal, ladies and gentlemen. Members, perhaps even more important — and in which it was essential to know how they will vote on the PSD and the CDS — it is in the sense that profits will be taxed in Portugal whenever they are generated here.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u39	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u40	If a company works here and if it is here that generates dividends, it is here that they must be taxed, to also prevent the bleeding of resources for legal offshore. And this bloody resource did not speak, they did not speak of the billions of euros fleeing to Malta, to Luxembourg, to the Netherlands, legal offshore within the European Union. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there are only two proposals that resolve this issue: to prohibit non-cooperating offshore relations and to tax in Portugal what is done and produced in Portugal. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u41	Mrs Cecilia Meireles from the CDS-PP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: What we are discussing today is the sad story of a decision that began to be inexplicable, then we realized that it was illegal and ended up in a cover-up operation that is beginning to unfold today.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u43	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u44	And I'm talking about cover-up because when asked about this, the Minister of Finance systematically said: "It was the services. Do not keep on seeking. ” The Secretary of State may hold his shoulders at will, but does not alter the fact that the Minister has justified himself with the services, when questioned about why this — as he did also Mr Prime Minister two or three days ago. in fact, what we learned was that the services at no time said « yes », even saying « no» at any time. What Mr Minister said was: « (...) the analysis of these jurisdictions led to the conclusion that they would be in condition (...) ». It's fake! As far as it is known, no analysis was made to the island of Man and, in relation to Uruguay, what was concluded was that it was not in condition.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u45	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u46	So, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs, the first challenge I would like to leave you is that you remove the elements that you find confidential this information and make it public,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u47	... because it is unacceptable for a government to justify its decision with information from the services and then make the information of the services confidential.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u48	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u49	Secondly, this decision is illegal because the law expressly states that there are four criteria that have to be taken into account and Mr. Secretary of State says openly that he simply did not want to know what the law says or any of these criteria.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u50	That's not true! That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u51	Thirdly, Mr Secretary of State, it is inexplicable and it makes no sense for a government to say that, in order to determine whether a territory is offshore or not, it is indifferent to whether it has a tax similar to IRC, it is indifferent to whether companies pay taxes or not, as if that had nothing strictly to do with the matter. And there is something even more inexplicable, Mr. Secretary of State. Mr. Secretary of State says, with a bright air, that it is important that there is an exchange of information; but then why did he not ask the Tax Administration whether or not there was an exchange of information? Are you very concerned about whether or not there is an exchange of information, but then, in the specific case, do you not want to know whether it exists or not? How did the Secretary of State assess the exchange of information? It can only be measured in specific cases. Now, I imagine that the actual cases of taxpayers in research are not going to be in the offices of the State Secretaries, therefore, there is no other way of knowing but by asking the Tax Administration. Interestingly, Mr. Secretary of State chose precisely not to ask whether there was an effective exchange of information.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u53	Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, this clearly illegal and politically inexplicable decision, what the Government can and should do is to revoke it immediately. If it does not, the CDS will still present a draft law to repeal that decision until, once and for all, it is known which of these territories is whether or not it meets the criteria laid down in the law. This is fundamental.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u54	And then let's see what Block and PCP do!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u55	I would still like to reply to Mrs Mariana Mortagua, who made here a serious accusation, a false accusation. I have to tell you that if you carefully read the documents that the Government has sent — which your Government has sent — it will conclude that whoever made a political agreement to withdraw Jersey from the blacklist was a government that existed in 2010. And this agreement is signed by a Secretary of State who is not named Paul Nuncio, contrary to the falsity that you said, is called Sergio Vasques and is from the party with which you are now related. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It seems that for the Block, now the blacklist is whitelisted and the Block is the « Blanking Block ». [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u56	You now have the floor on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mr João Paulo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, Mr Secretary of State for Tax Affairs: We could not agree any more: this PSD schedule is a bad agenda. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The PSD and the CDS make this schedule to try to disguise the political responsibilities they have in the original sin that was the lack of scrutiny in transfers of EUR 10 billion to offshore, which did not undergo fiscal scrutiny by political option of the former Secretary for Tax Affairs Paulo Nuncio.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u58	That's the one! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u59	And since then, since this has been reported by the social communication, since some parties here, in the Assembly of the Republic, have been beaten to denounce and want to clear up responsibilities, the strategy of the PSD and the CDS is to invent facts about this matter. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] They accused the Government of being obliged to deliver the opinion of the Tax Authority. It's fake! It is known that it is not compulsory. In addition, the Tax Authority was involved, participated in all the withdrawal processes of these three countries, of these three tax jurisdictions of the so-called blacklist. Then they said that the criteria set out in Article 63 ( 2 ). that of the General Tax Law were cumulative mandatory criteria, when, according to the information given by the Tax Authority, it was known that they are indicative, provided the Government considers that the assessment made by the OECD Global Forum is positive, and thus opens the way for the withdrawal of these three countries and these three fiscal jurisdictions. They then said that it was mandatory for these tax jurisdictions to ask our country to withdraw from the blacklist, but, when consulting the legislation, there is no obligation for these countries to ask for it, it is said that these countries can request it. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] Only that this obligation would limit the sovereignty of our State and the law does not impose — and well — that these three tax jurisdictions have to request. In this particular case, and I would ask the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs to clarify this issue — these three jurisdictions have asked, although they are not required by law.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u60	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u61	But there are two aspects which also matter to be mentioned. One of them has already been mentioned by the State Secretary for Tax Affairs, who are the anti-abuse rules, which were introduced through the State Budget Act for 2017 to meet the need to accompany transfers to low-tax countries, regardless of whether or not these countries are on the blacklist. in the specific case of these three jurisdictions, if they are of low taxation, they will continue to have follow-up and will be subject to anti-abuse standards.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u62	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u63	On the work that has been done by this government, I recall two essential measures. The first is the extension of the unit of large contributors to natural persons, which was a measure of this Government in the State Budget for 2016. The second major measure — which goes against the original sin that shames the previous PSD and CDS government — was because of the change in government and it was this government that again ordered the publication of the statistics of the transfers to offshore. One thing is certain: if there had not been a change of government, everything would continue in it and the amounts and their statistical treatment would not be discovered in offshore transfers. The main objective, Mr Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, is certainly not to have a black hyperlist of countries and non-cooperating tax jurisdictions. The aim is to cooperate, exchange of information, access to tax and financial information so that effective beneficiaries can be known, in fact, where such transfers are carried out by billions of euros. [[PSD Member Protests António Leitão Amaro.]] I would like to leave a question to the PSD, if Mr. Leitão Amaro allows me, which is the following: through a statement from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Panama, that, in a 2013 bilateral meeting with the former Government, with the former Prime Minister, currently Mr. Pedro Passos Coelho,... [[PSD Member Pedro Passos Coelho's laughs.]] ... Portugal no longer regarded Panama as a fiscal paradise and the former Prime Minister committed himself to doing everything to remove Panama from the blacklist. The communiqué, which we are quoting, is public—we can distribute it to dispel doubts—is on the website of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Panama. The question I put to you, honourable Member, is whether your party, which has scheduled this debate, is in a position to ensure that, apart from Panama, there has been no further commitment to another country, with another tax jurisdiction that is on the blacklist...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u64	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u65	...and that you wanted to get off the blacklist. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u66	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira, from The Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The problem of offshores is again the subject of debate in this plenary session. As everyone will certainly be reminded, at the end of February, early in March, this House discussed this issue and, this time, motivated by the fact that the PSD/CDS Government has closed its eyes to billions of euro transfers to tax havens. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] As we said at the time, no one understands today, the Portuguese do not understand, those who pay taxes do not understand, the families, who for five years have been subject to a real tax massacre, do not realize, even today, how it was possible that a government did not have control over the fulfilment of tax obligations; that it did not want to know whether there had been taxes to charge; that it was not concerned about the amount of tax revenues that the transfer of EUR 10 billion to tax havens would represent to our country. This happened with the PSD/CDS government, which, while closing its eyes to billions of euro transfers to tax havens, throwing mortgages and clearing families of their homes for small tax debts. [[Well remembered!]] [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u68	In fact, it was necessary for the PSD/CDS government to leave so that the publication of the lists with transfers to tax havens would return to our life, and still well. I am glad that the PSD/CDS government has gone away and I am glad that the publications have returned. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] And today we are back on the subject because the government has removed three territories from the black list of tax havens. The Greens also consider that the Government should explain to this House and, above all, to the Portuguese, the reasons for this decision, from the outset because with that decision banks are no longer obliged to inform the Tax Authority of the financial transfers to these territories and tax transparency and the fight against tax evasion must be present in the conduct of this government. Therefore, it is important to realize what happened so that these three territories no longer belong to the black list of tax havens, because, in our view, what is required is to end the tax havens, but to end them is not to decorate them to pretend that they are no longer tax havens, until tax havens have come to contribute to the immorality and tax injustice that is installed in our country. And the worst thing is that these activities are often associated with the clandestine economy, tax evasion, tax fraud, organized crime, money laundering and sometimes many practices that weaken global stability, such as the drug business or even the arms business. Moreover, this real'casino economy' is inseparable from the increase in social inequalities, poverty and unsustainableness of an economic model that has been installed on our planet. The Greens therefore believe that it is necessary to eliminate tax havens as a way of contributing, too, to the credibility of the tax system, because it seems to us deeply unjust a system where some people can live in tax havens and others have to live in real tax hell. Moreover, it seems to us that it makes no sense that today there are still places in the world where justice does not enter, where the judiciary is at the door and where governments pretend that nothing has to do with the matter and that nothing can be done. Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, returning to the Government's decision to remove three territories from the black list of tax havens, I believe it would be important for the Government to tell us whether the law was respected in that decision, whether or not the criteria for the removal of those territories from the blacklist are present in this decision and whether or not there was an opinion of the Tax Authority. What we want to know is not whether or not it may be mandatory, that is not what is at stake, but it is also to understand when the PSD speaks truth. Because if the PSD, on one day it says that there was no opinion of the Tax Authority and today it has already said here that there was an opinion, but that it was negative, it is important to know whether the PSD is speaking truth, whether there was or was no opinion. One day there didn't seem to be the next day...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u69	He's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u70	But more: I was also interested to know whether the PSD is true when, for example, according to what the press says, by the voice of Mr Leitão Amaro, it states that the Banco de Portugal found that there were no conditions...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u71	It's another list!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u72	...to remove these territories from the black list of tax havens. Mr Secretary of State, did the Banco de Portugal deliver any opinions contrary to the decision of the Government? I think it would be interesting if the Government were in possession of some opinion from the Banco de Portugal where that institution was opposed to the decision taken by the Government to remove the three territories from the black list of tax havens or, then, is the PSD that is missing the truth. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u73	Mr Duarte Pacheco, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretary of State, Secretary of State for Tax Affairs: Portugal is not your backyard with all honesty! Portugal is not your backyard... [[PSD applause.]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u75	... for you to act outside the law, disrespecting the institutions, not giving you any clarification and when you give them it is entirely contradictory what the Minister says, what the Secretary of State says and what the Prime Minister says — shame! So, Mr Secretary of State, think that you are in the Portuguese Government and that this is not a backyard for you to play with serious things. [[PS MP Marisabel Moutela protests.]] Second, Mr Secretary of State, the facts are: during the previous government, the previous government did not remove any area from the black list of tax havens. [[Protests by The Greens Member José Luís Ferreira.]] Did you ask the Tax Authority? Yeah. Did you get the answer? Yeah. First of all: the answer was negative, it did not withdraw; secondly: this government does not ask for an opinion from the Tax Authority, decides politically and decides to withdraw them and here is where the matter lies, Mr Secretary of State! The Secretary of State has decided to withdraw these jurisdictions for political reasons and these political reasons have not been given. The only reason you tried to pass us here is that they have access to more information. And that's all I'm asking you, so why don't you remove all the blacklist jurisdictions? It would be much better, I would have the full information. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u76	Yeah, why not? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u77	Moreover, there are other jurisdictions which, like them, also meet the OECD criteria.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u78	It's nothing like that! You don't know what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u79	So we have to ask him: what motivated him to remove these? Tell us! Be, for once, straight! We have many doubts about your real motivation, Mr. Secretary of State! But that should be said to everyone. On the other hand, I understand that you do not give them, because in this House you have a fabulous understanding of the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block. Who saw them and who saw them! [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u80	They only look like them because we ask for them!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u81	Today, they understand everything, they criticize everything, but they accept everything that this government does, even if it goes against its principles. Mr Secretary of State, the facts are very simple: the Government has removed three jurisdictions from the blacklist, it has no opinion from the Tax Authority, the opinions that existed were from the previous Government, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, from the previous government! They were negative and therefore the government did not withdraw them.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u82	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u83	More, Mr Secretary of State: what we know is that you have explanations to give, and you know why? Because the reality is that today the biggest sponsor of tax havens is the Government of the PS, the Bloc and the PCP, I repeat: it is the Government of the PS, the Bloc and the PCP, which sponsors the tax havens, which decreases taxes, both from the estate and from the income, which are in those jurisdictions. This is a fact that the Portuguese will live with. [[Congratulations from the PSD and the CDS-PP Member Filipe Lobo d’Ávila.]] [[PS, BE, PCP and Os Verde protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u84	Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, Fernando Rocha Andrade, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, I also think that you should not play with serious things... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and therefore should not be left behind in fiscal policy, depending on whether it enters or leaves the government. It was very clear here: the previous government promised a number of countries to take them off the list. Then, from the right-hand benches, they shouted: "but he did not withdraw." Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not think that lying to foreign countries is a decent attitude of a sovereign state. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Pacheco.]] Mrs. Members, right now, the idea of having a list of more than 80 jurisdictions is only shared by us. We can all think, in the line of the « proudly alone» as a tradition, that only we are right and that everything is wrong. However, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed a political option. It is not for the services to determine whether the country prefers to bet on the exchange of information or giant blacklists. This option — taken totally within the law and, so far, no one has made any argument about illegality, only is spoken in illegality and is not justified — was the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u86	Please finish, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u87	The Assembly can, of course, re-establish countries, end the exchange of information and whoever has money and hidden heritage in those jurisdictions will appreciate it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u88	You have the floor on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u89	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, we cannot allow formal or theoretical agreements on the exchange of information, without practical verification or criteria of an existing law, to serve to legitimize territories which are, in fact, tax havens. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, you will have to explain whether these criteria are met, if they are to be fulfilled, what verification has been made and what is the government's reading of the law, because the laws are not room biombos and if they exist they must have an interpretation, which is shared and met by the Tax Authority and the Government and it is important that this matter be clarified. Mr Duarte Pacheco, the opinions which you have, which allow you to make this debate today, were requested by the Left Block,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u90	No, it was for us!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u91	... because you are always available to guerilla in the media, but then, when something needs to be done, you don't. The request for documentation was made by the Left Block. And now, Mr President, it is challenging the PSD to vote on the proposals that the Left Block constantly brings to Parliament against offshores and that the PSD has always plummeted, such is the interest in combating offshores and tax invasion. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u92	Mrs Cecilia Meireles, I do not need to invent any facts about the former Secretary of State Paul Nuncio, because unfortunately he gives us very good and real reasons to criticize him, nor do I need to whiten the attitude of this government or the PS in order to attack the PSD or the CDS, because the Block has a consistent attitude in this matter. What he said and I repeat is that former Secretary of State Paul Nuncio promised the island of Jersey to take it off the offshore list. I will read the opinion that we received and that says that the then State Secretary for Tax Affairs in January 2014 transmitted that priority would be given to this process and that it could be completed in 2014. If this isn't a promise, what is it, Your Honor? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u93	Oh, my God! Oh, my God! Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u94	It does not mean that the others had not done it, but Paul Nuncio also did it and it is not worth whitening. [[Congratulations from BE.]] In this regard, I would like to ask for the distribution of news with a report from the European Commission on tax planning, which speaks of several points of the IRC reform that promoted aggressive tax planning for large multinationals.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u95	Mrs. Deputy, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u96	I will finish, Mr. President. Consider only the concern of PSD and CDS with fiscal planning: they approved an IRC reform that privileged and allowed the tax planning of large multinationals. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u97	That will be the case, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u98	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u99	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u100	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u101	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u102	Mr President, because there is more life beyond the Left Block, I would like to clarify, and I would ask Mr President to distribute both the request and the question that the PSD asked about this in February and three weeks ago, showing that we were the first to ask for this information. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u103	The honourable Member will send the documents to the Bureau, which will, of course, be properly distributed. The Bureau did not register any entries for intervention, so Mr Cecilia Meireles of the CDS will have the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen: Mr. Secretary of State continues to answer the most obvious question of all: why did you choose these three territories? Why were these and not any others? If Mr. Secretary of State says that it is the international classification, I have here an international classification with risk factors and I can say that the islands of Man and Jersey have the same risk factors as, for example, the Cayman Islands. And I can also tell you that Uruguay has the same risk factors as Panama. Will you take them out too, Mr. Secretary of State? What Mr. Secretary of State forgot to say—and when he spoke in previous government he certainly wanted to talk about those governments or that government chaired by the Socrates Engineer, of which you were also a part—was that he was going to sign double taxation agreements as a sort of tax jackpot for offshore. I ask you if you will also take Bermuda, Gibraltar, Cayman Islands — Isle of Man already shot, Jersey has already taken —, St. Lucia, Guernsey, Belize, British Islands, Turks and Caicos Islands, Dominica, Antigua and Barbuda, Liberia. Are you gonna take these all out, too? And you will continue to hide... you can invent communications all you understand, but, Mr. Secretary of State, disclassify, declassify these documents. What is written here is an agreement signed by a Secretary of State of a Portuguese Government—that, I believe, you were also a member—sérgio Vasques, committed to withdrawing Jersey from the blacklist. Mrs Mariana Mortágua, what I know is that the previous government did not withdraw Jersey. The one who retired was the one that you supported. And we're going to find out what everyone is defending, because if the government doesn't revoke this door, the CDS is moving forward with this bill and we're going to vote to see who's defending rigour in this matter and who wants to delete transfers, eradicating blacklist countries. That's where we'll see. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u105	I now give the floor to Mr Miguel Tiago of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : It is a little difficult to understand this position of the PSD and the CDS. They complain about three countries because they were quoted at an OECD assessment stage as a complicant, and the honourable Member has forgotten to mention, for example, the United States, which is on an equal footing with Uruguay. Do you also want the United States to go to the non-cooperating offshore list? Finally, it is an international classification, on which we can have doubts and we can and should want to clarify. However, simplifying the debate, as Mrs Cecilia Meireles has tried, is indeed a very difficult exercise. And it is very difficult to understand that the PSD and CDS are now scandalized because the country has established information exchange agreements with other countries, when at the time they do not move on the blacklist. They didn't move because they didn't need them, because the countries were on the blacklist and the PSD and the CDS looked to the side and let the money go to the countries on the blacklist. [[PCP applause.]] Mrs. Members, in your term of office, EUR 10 billion came out and you cannot say that at that time they were distracted because the PCP asked—if you may remember—sometimes without account in this House how much money I was going to offshore, what was the annual value of offshore flow.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u107	And now they don't ask anything. It's all quiet!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u108	None of the ladies. At the time, Members were concerned about this and some of the Members. Members had responsibilities in the Government and were also Ministers and State Secretaries. And it is sitting on the PSD bench the Minister of Finance who denied this information to Parliament. Mrs. Members, after all, in this whole auction that tried to set up around the black list of offshores have forgotten just how will they vote on proposals that solve the problem, regardless of any blacklist: prohibit or not prohibit trade relations with non-cooperating jurisdictions?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u109	Would you like to finish, Mr. Deputies, please?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u110	The proposal from the CFP will be voted on next week. How does the PSD vote? How does the CDS vote? And how does the PS vote, what is important too?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u111	Also, too!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u112	To consider that the profits of companies should be taxed in Portugal, regardless of where they are distributed and where they are taxed, is the proposal. How do you vote PS, PSD and CDS? When this was solved, the problems of offshores ended. Until that happens, it is a biombo behind which can continue to pass a set of operations that the State will never have the conditions to unionize. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u113	To close this item on the agenda, Mr Antonio Leitão Amaro, of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Mr. Secretary of State Rocha Andrade, what a great waste of yours! Come here to talk about promises. Yes, there are promises to several States and territories of this world, signed. Do you know whose signature is? of a socialist government, of José Socrates. Several of your government colleagues sat in this Council of Ministers. The promises are yours. Do you know what the difference between us is? It is that you promise and we do not pay attention to your bad promises. You promised and, when the requests came, we asked the Tax Authority if that made sense and the Tax Authority said: « no». And what did we do? We didn't remove them from the blacklist. The promise is yours and the rejection too! The protection of taxpayers is made by us. By the way, Mr Secretary of State, on discharge, comes here to say, with great impetus, that it was a political decision. Mr. Secretary of State, a political decision that is illegal? You have no power to make illegal political decisions. If you have any doubts as to whether you are illegal, I shall read paragraph 6 of an opinion which the Tax Authority has given you, in which it says that Portugal has already notified the European Commission that the criteria in Article 63(2). o-D of the General Tax Law must be complied with. They are not flexible, they are not in the despotic discretion of a gentleman sitting in the chair of State Secretary. You are subject to the law and should have done it. Moreover, when you consult an opinion of the Tax Authority on Uruguay, which says that Uruguay does not meet the conditions, you could not have decided against that opinion. And what are you doing here? An even greater drop: it is said that it was based on an OECD classification. Mr Secretary of State, the OECD classification is prior to that opinion. It came out in March 2015, with respect to an analysis completed in 2013, and the Tax Authority replied after that analysis. Moreover, you have come here with great rejection that has removed the countries from the offshore list for more information. Mr Secretary of State, this is false, by two ways: firstly, you did not show in any document you sent, that you had one more piece of information. Secondly, there is a demonstration to you, which is the OECD report that you are quoting. You know what he says? It says that, for Uruguay, four countries requested information, 17 requests for information were made and two thirds were not answered.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u115	Would you like to finish, Mr. Deputies, please?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u116	Mr President, I am only asking for the same tolerance. Mr. Secretary of State, there is some hidden reason for your decision.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u117	Hidden is the 10 billion!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u118	This decision not only removes the territories from the black offshore list as low taxation. You make two decisions that are equally serious, do not explain them and your Prime Minister is responsible for you, because a week ago,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u119	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u120	... lying to this Parliament, he said that there was support from the Tax Authority and that these decisions were in accordance with the position of the Tax Authority and we realize that it was false and that deserves political censorship. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u121	Forget it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u122	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u123	To what effect, Mr. Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u124	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u125	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u126	It called for the distribution of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Portuguese Republic and the Government of the Principality of Andorra, where the Portuguese Republic undertook to initiate internal procedures for the exclusion of the Principality of Andorra from the list of countries, territories, regions with tax regimes clearly more favourable, Memorandum which was signed by the Government of the Portuguese Republic, in the person of the Minister of Foreign Affairs Rui Machete and the Government of the Principality of Andorra.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u127	It'll be distributed.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u128	I would like to take the floor, Mr President, on an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u129	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u130	Mr President, I would like to know, through you, whether the Government authorizes — yes, I assume, after what you have done now — the declassification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Portuguese Republic and the Government of Jersey and, now, the declassification of the information that Mr. Secretary of State or Mrs. Mariana Mortágua has already cited extensively, but they are quoting in a truncated manner and which makes it clear that the commitment was taken by the Government in 2010, then chaired by the Socrates Engineer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u131	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u132	Mr. João Paulo Correia, ask for the floor, I assume that also to make an inquiry to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u133	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u134	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u135	Mr President, despite having seen the old saying « who consents », I would like to have the communiqué, which I used in my speech by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Panama of 31 July 2013 which is entitled « Portugal no longer regards Panama as a tax haven ». [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u136	It will be distributed, Mr Deputies, thank you very much. For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr Antonio Leitão Amaro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u137	Mr President, my appeal to the Bureau is for the President to ask the Government to give us the decisions of the previous Government concerning all these requests that have removed territories from the offshore list.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u138	Did you forget? Oh, my God! There isn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u139	Mr President, let me help you, because it is probably not going to be successful because this is just a reliable conversation and there is no such decision. None! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u140	Mr. Deputies, I appreciate the attempt to help. The Bureau felt plurally interplicated at this stage...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u141	Mr President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u142	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u143	Mr President, I would like to know, through you, if the government authorizes declassification, because I have the papers in my hand but they are classified.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u144	Madam Member, in the conduct of the proceedings, the Bureau will naturally intercede with the Government to ask this question and we will inform you of the answer given to us in a timely manner. The Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the Bureau of the answer he has taken and the Bureau shall forward it to the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, the answer to this question. Mrs. Members, let us move on to the second point of our agenda, of which is the joint discussion of the projects of lein.o 137 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Combats job insecurity and strengthens workers'rights ( CFP ), 330 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the temporary work regime by limiting its use and strengthening the rights of workers (12 ). the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ( PCP ), 550 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amends the Labour Code and the Labour Procedure Code by introducing amendments to the labour contract presumption regime and to a certain resolution ( PAN ), 554 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Restricts the use of temporary work and combats false temporary work ( BE ), generally and draft resolution No 924 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of information on labour rights and the strengthening of supervision within the framework of labour relations ( NAP ). For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: An end-to-end contract is, as in other words, the name itself indicates, for a time-to-day or limited need. It is or, at least, it should be because in our country the misuse of the long-term contract to meet the company's permanent needs is « our daily bread ». Temporary workers, as the name itself indicates, should exist only to meet the transitional or provisional needs of activities of other companies to whom they provide services. They should, but that's not what's going on. The use of temporary and outsourcing companies to meet the permanent needs of other service providers is a growing reality, reaching more than 100 000 workers and a turnover of more than EUR 1, 2 billion in 2010. Will it be acceptable for a company, just because it is beginning activity, to hire all its workers through a precarious bond? Will it be acceptable for a young person, just because he is young, to be hired through a term contract, even if he responds to the permanent needs of a company up to nine years and then confronted with the non-renewal of the contract and a dismissal, as happened to 170 workers of the call center of PT, when of the business between PT and Oi? Will it be acceptable for a long-term unemployed worker, simply because he is unemployed, to be hired through a contract in the long run, even if he meets the permanent needs of a company? Will it be acceptable for a chain of luxury hotels to fire workers and subcontract workers, through temporary work companies, to perform exactly the same work, which does not have anything but, yes, of daily operation, as has happened at Hotel Ritz, in Lisbon? Will it be acceptable for the economic groups in the energy sector, telecommunications, to have virtually no workers in the framework and to subcontract through temporary work enterprises workers who every day "sufficient" profits, in support of the customer, in billing, in the system of failures, as in the call center of EDP, where there have been workers in these conditions for more than 25 years? No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not acceptable and the choice for these forms of precariousness has only one justification: to pay lower wages with less rights. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, precariousness is not today or yesterday, but in recent years it has experienced unquestionable worsenings. A study, recently published by the CES Centre for Social Studies and the University of Coimbra on Crisis and Alternatives Observatory, confirms that the data from INE and other sources have already been pointing out: job recovery is being done with a greater generalization of precariousness. Although job creation is not yet sufficient to recover values prior to 2008, the weight of full-time contracts in the new contracts does not reach 20 % in 2015. Despite positive developments in the last year and a half, effective contracts continue to represent only one third of the new contracts. The remainder corresponds to various types of precarious contracts and a marginal portion of part-time employees. of the universe of contracts in force and which were signed after November 2013, more than half are precarious, a certain term 45 % or an uncertain term 18, 4 %. The remuneration data show that the wages of workers with precarious contracts are, on average, €600, a value that is closer to the national minimum wage when it comes to temporary work. in fact, Mr. President, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, for the worst reason this data is not surprising. This is the result of successive changes to labour legislation. Paying less for more work and less rights was the real objective of successive changes to labour laws always made to worse, in particular the previous amendment promoted by PSD and CDS in 2012. This is the objective that is based on the strategy of replacing workers with rights by workers without rights. Exception has become a rule and precariousness in the reality of everyday life: term contracts, false green receipts, temporary work, outsourcing, professional internships, training and research scholarships, employment contracts and insertion. This is because what some people present and announce as successful reforms is the instability and impoverishment of thousands of workers in our country. And there is no way to hide and delude: the precariousness of many represents the scandalous profits of some. Consider the case of PT, EDP, SONAE, Jerome Martins, NOS, Vodafone, among others. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is up to justice to ensure that a permanent job corresponds to an effective bond. The alternative to unemployment is not precarious but employment with rights, and the fight against precariousness must be placed at the level of the State's commitment, as in the past with the eradication of child labour. For this reason, today, the CFP presents effective combat proposals for precariousness: to facilitate the recognition of the labour contract and to strengthen workers' rights by investing the burden of proof; to reduce the situations in which it is possible to use the term contract; to distinguish special contracts of very short duration; to increase the period in which the employer is prevented from making new admissions by means of term or temporary contracts for the same functions performed, preventing the replacement of workers for permanent needs; to reduce the duration of the contract to a certain and uncertain term for no more than three years, including renewals; and to prevent the use of temporary employment undertakings and to guarantee the right to contract when the permanent needs of the company to which the service is provided; to penalise, through economic, fiscal and contribution penalties, employers who have recourse to forms of precarious employment. Combating precariousness is not speech; concrete measures are made. Protection of employment with rights requires effective measures to enhance labour and workers' rights, and this is an unacceptable fight. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u146	Mr Álvaro Batista has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, precariousness is a serious matter, a problem that affects thousands of Portuguese and should not be used for theatres. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u148	Precautionary should not be used for political pantomime, it should not serve for the CFP to pretend that it is not responsible for what this government does. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u149	Precautionaryness should not serve the PCP to try to realise that it has no responsibility for health cuts, to pretend that it has nothing to do with the lack of assistants in schools and with the widespread degradation of public services. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u150	The CFP is trying to « shake the water from the hood » on the increase in precariousness, the huge increase in the precariousness of this government, in the state and in the private sector. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u151	First question: if the PS only governs because of the support of the Left Block and the PCP, Mrs Rita Rato does not think that the government's assailants are also your ass? [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] Pantomina, then, because if these proposals were even important to the radical left were not made to the little ones, they were not proposed to the little ones, proposals to amend labour legislation in slow chambers, to last longer. If these were important proposals for the CFP or for the Left Block, they had been negotiated in the Government Agreement and included in the Budget. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u152	Ladies and gentlemen, second question: if they were important because these amendments to the labour laws were not negotiated by the CFP in the Government of the Left? [[PCP protests.]] Madam Member, being this government responsible for the greatest increases in the precariousness of memory, come here « to account », perhaps helps to alleviate the guilt of the CFP,... [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u153	...maybe it'll be useful to deceive some unwary voters, but it won't solve the problem to people. The problem of precariousness is now more serious in Portugal than ever before, but it is not to'make sure' that the problems are solved. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u154	Madam Member, how can you explain that precariousness in the State has increased explosively with this government? How does it explain that between September 2015 and March 2017 there are more than 17 000 people with long-term contracts in the State? Explain! Why is there now more than 17 000 long-term contracts in the State than when the government took office? How do the left feel about supporting a government that is heavily engaged in long-term contracts? And what do they say about the State's precarious regularization program only to be completed in 2018 or 2019? What took you so long? [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] Then what does the PCP think about not being given the means to ACT? Why does the Working Conditions Authority lack people and budget to enforce labour law? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u155	What does the PCP think that new employees in the ACT have not yet been admitted to cover the vacancies caused by the reduction of working hours? If this government cannot comply with the current law—and it is the CFP that writes it in these proposals—how do you want it to comply with a more demanding law? If this government can't drive a car in the fight against precariousness, how does the PCP want it to drive a car without a wheel? [[PSD laughter and applause.]] Does it go through the head of someone who is sensible to prohibit a company that has an increase in orders to hire workers to do this job? Then why does the PCP now want less collective bargaining? in the PSD we want more space for the unions, especially for the true unions, the unions that really want to defend the workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u156	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u157	I'm done now, Mr. President. Unless they are destined to increase unemployment and social unrest, these proposals cannot be taken seriously. As the PCP is complicit in all these situations, as an infallible supporter of this government, let me tell you, Mrs Member, that there is a remedy for all the guilt: acknowledge it! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u158	In reply, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u159	Mr President, Mr Álvaro Batista, that the PSD, to the lack of justification for the result of its reform of the Labour Code, which has resulted in a worsening of precariousness, does not mean anything to us until we live well with that. Now, not even if you have been given the job of reading the contents of the bills is that I think you deserve more attention from the honourable Member — at least read what is being said here! [[PCP applause.]] Mr. Álvaro Batista, it is particularly serious that he comes here to call the reality of 5000 EDP call center workers who have been undercontracted through temporary work companies for more than 20 years. [[Protests by PSD MP Maria das Mercês Borges.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u160	What we wanted to bring here today was concrete proposals to respond to these problems and what the honourable Member here said was that the lives of thousands of workers in our country are a lie and that there is no precariousness. But no, sir, there exists and has owner. It's just that precariousness owns! There were successive changes to the Labour Code promoted by PS, PSD and CDS and had a particular impact during the previous PSD Government and the CDS-PP. We were still at the EDP call center here in Lisbon, where we could see that there are workers, as you know, who have been on long-term contracts for more than 20 years and have not been recognized their connection with that company. Mr. Alvaro Batista lives well with that? We don't live! So today we have brought proposals, which we want to see approved. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u161	For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in recent years we have been witnessing a gradual deterioration of the market and working conditions, notably the abuse of green receipts and the termination of contracts. in fact, what should be the exception became the rule: term contracts based, in most cases, on false assumptions. Is it so plausible that most workers in a company are hired on the basis of the alleged exceptional increase in work that lasts year after year? So in order to contribute to the improvement of the existing regime, we propose six amendments to the Labour Code and the Labour Procedure Code. The first is to change the eligibility requirements of the conclusion of a contract with the right term, making them more demanding, requiring the express and objective identification of the justification and deleting the point concerning the contract by « exceptional addition of the business activity ». Second: allocation of the right of preference in the conclusion of a contract without end to the employee of the undertaking where the employer undertakes external recruitment, both during the period of execution of his term of contract and within 45 days after the termination of the contract. Third: reduction in the duration of the contract in the case of young people seeking the first job and long-term unemployed. Fourthly, it is proposed that the duration of the contract should be reduced by a maximum of four years instead of six years. Thursday : leave for the worker to be entitled to compensation in the event of termination of the contract, both when it occurs at the initiative of the employer and in cases of non-renewal agreement.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u163	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u164	Sixth and last: in situations of false green receipts, when detected, being declared the existence of a contract of work, we propose that the employer be obliged to deliver to social security the value of the contributions and contributions due from the beginning of the contractual relationship, as well as to pay to the worker all the existing wage differences from the beginning of the employment relationship, in particular as a holiday, holiday and Christmas allowance and other cash or property benefits made available to the workers of the company in identical employment.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u165	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Temporary work establishes a triangular relationship between the worker, the user company and the temporary work company. Temporary labour users outsource their duties with respect to employees, temporary work enterprises operate as intermediaries, accumulating millionaire profits every year with the precariousness of workers. The weakest part of this tripartite relationship — workers and workers — loses rights and wages. Much has been said in this House, in the last week, about the need for modernization and innovation in the work area, but we are talking about a reality that is based on the business of renting people, so typical of other times that they do not miss. So it should be absolutely unacceptable. however, in our country, we have seen a trivialization of a perverse contract model that exempts employers — in this case, users companies — from responsibilities and payments, shielding themselves in an intermediary whose only source of income is to be part of the wage due to the worker. There are, therefore, a number of data that should deserve our attention and illustrate the reality of the problem. In Portugal, there are about 250 licensed temporary jobs, a number that has been growing rapidly in the last decade. According to the Green Paper on Labour Relations, non-permanent contracts over time took on — and I quote — historically high proportions, and in 2014 more than 30 % of workers were in that situation. It was also possible to establish from the labour compensation fund data that 82 % of work contracts started in 2014 and 2015 are non-permanent. These data are in line with the trends recommended by the study recently published by the Observatory on Crisis and Alternatives: when it comes to non-permanent contract wages, these have had a slight increase, as a result of the increase in national minimum wage. however, the average salary is €603. This is a clearly low value and, worse, it is causing all other wages, even those of permanent contracts, to be lowered from an average of € 1024 to €809 in less than three years. In addition, these data indicate that a solution is needed. More importantly, it is a situation that particularly affects the younger ones, raising problems of sustainability of the work model in the future. however, it should be borne in mind that the problem is now spread by various sectors of activity and age groups. from cleaning up sales, from customer support to journalism, from large surfaces to call centers, no sector today is immune to the existence of workers who have nothing of temporary, but, however, their employment bond is precarious. in our country, a mechanism that should be of absolute exception became a rule. Moreover, the measures to embarrass the dismissal and the attack on the collective hiring of the previous right-wing government have aggravated the situation of these workers and workers. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a real problem that calls for concrete solutions. What the Left Block brings today is concrete solutions and not debates without any practical consequences. The way forward in the past year and a half has shown that a return policy helps people's economy and lives, but it has also shown that the major impediments are in labour law. It is therefore necessary to deepen a path of protection for workers regarding the abuse in which temporary work has become. We therefore propose temporary restrictions on the use of temporary contracts, as well as the possibility of their renewal for indefinite time, which is what, in practice, happens, increasing, on the other hand, the safeguard of access to all information to the worker and also delimiting the scope in which temporary work can be used, once and with respect for the spirit with which temporary work has been legislated to correspond to an exception. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Left Block refuses to allow the future of the world of work to be built on the basis of precariousness, low wages and intermediates working with part of the workers' wages. The Left Block continues to be struck by decent working conditions and legitimate employment contracts, and it is in Parliament that we have to answer these questions, because this is where we are responding to the people's mandate, which, in a scenario of economic improvements, has not yet had their correspondence in labour rights. Today, we are trying to deal with justice for those who work and we are trying to end the abuses perpetrated in temporary work. Let us not miss the courage to adopt these measures, at the risk of contributing to abuse rather than to the necessary solution: rights for those who work. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u167	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating several legislative initiatives today to combat precariousness and strengthen workers' rights. This is a matter which some classify as pantominic, but for us, it is of great importance, because indeed, on the most diverse forms, either through term contracts outside the law, either through temporary employment contracts clearly illegal, either through the use of false green receipts, the truth is that, from a few years to a few years ago, precariousness has come to take account of the reality of work in Portugal, a reality which has also gained a new dimension with the policies of the PSD / CDS government, policies that have contributed decisively to increasing unemployment, which have left thousands and thousands of unemployed without any social support and which have generalized precariousness. We have even seen an attempt to make precarious the rule of labour relations. And that is why we need a serious fight against this serious problem that represents precariousness in our country, even because the increase in precariousness increases unemployment, which means that, by combating precariousness, we are also fighting unemployment. Moreover, precarious workers have lower wages than others, because, in fact, precarious work is always a factor of discrimination and condemns the worker to complete disprotection. The precariousness, which mainly affects women and young people, is socially unfair and degrading and affects the country itself in its productivity and its development. Nevertheless, precariousness has come to represent a recurrent, usual and almost institutionalized practice as a way of deresponsibility of the employer and accentuate the exploitation of those who are forced to work without rights. Despite everything, we continue to watch, by many employers, the misuse of end-term contracts. In fact, these contracts should only take place to meet the temporary needs of companies, but what happens is that, in most cases, they are used to fill jobs and permanent functions. The same can be said of temporary employment contracts. Much of these contracts are not intended to meet the needs of temporary work, but rather to respond to permanent functions. thus, the worker loses across the line: he loses rights or does not even acquire them, loses job security and loses wages. In good rigour, long-term contracts, as well as temporary employment contracts that aim to meet the company's permanent needs, are neither substantial long-term contracts nor temporary employment contracts, are fraud, it is a lie. And also in labor relations lies, fraud and what is false are strange concepts, which, therefore, should be fought with all firmness. The Greens will do their part: they will vote in favour of these legislative initiatives. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u169	Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: last week, in a debate scheduled by the Left Block on the end of hours bank and work contracts, we had the opportunity to discuss two drafts of the Block and three of the CFP. I recall that the Block Bills were not even voted on and the three PCPs were rejected. Not a week has passed and here we are again in a debate scheduled by the PCP, discussing two PCP bills and one of the Block, again about term hiring. I mean, nothing new to the left. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] The PCP and the Left Block are back on track and even going to meetings to see who makes the PS government the biggest voice, their government, without having any practical results and without removing any political consequences of this. I remember it's your government! This debate is just a debate to be pretended.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u171	Only if it's for the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u172	Is it to delude who? The unions? I would say once again that they do not bring the debate again. The PCP and the Left Block rescheduled these projects without listening to social consultation — nothing new, they again despised social consultation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u173	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u174	Once again, the Block project cannot be voted on because it did not meet the deadline for public consultation — nothing again. Now, I ask: have the PCP and the Block negotiated with the Socialist Party the approval of these bills, contrary to what happened last week? Has the PS changed his mind about the commitment not to change the labour law in 2017 without going to social consultation? Is the PS no longer in favour of the stability of labour legislation? Well, the PS hasn't spoken yet, but I don't think so. I'd say, again, that to the left nothing new. So, what is the point of this debate? With all honesty, it serves for very little, it is just a manifestation of your ideological prejudice, it is your sign of life. No matter how hard it takes to listen to you, sirs. Members, unemployment is falling with the legislation that was approved by the PSD/CDS government, contrary to what you have been saying.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u175	There are 500 000 unemployed don't count, do you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u176	I also use to deny another claim that the term contracts have increased with this PSD / CDS legislation. According to the National Institute of Statistics, in the last quarter of the governance of the former Government of the Socialist Party, of the Government of Eng. Socrates, contracts without term represented about 77% of contracts and contracts with term represented around 19%. However, with the legislation of the PSD and CDS, the term contracts decreased to 17 % or 18 % and the contracts without end reached 80 %. So these are the facts that your prejudice refuses to see. Now, I repeat the question: if you have not negotiated the approval of these proposals with the Socialist Party, which you know, do not even have your commitments, then you want to deceive who? Oh, my God! Are you going to withdraw any political consequences from the Socialist Party or from the government that you support? Oh, my God! Don't you? Oh, my God! Then, if not, don't fool the Portuguese! So if not, this schedule is really just talk! It's making a lot of noise for nothing. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u177	For an intervention, Mr Luís Soares now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Imagine the experience of working under a one-month contract without knowing if it will be the last: a mixture of fear, insecurity, pressure, demotivation and coercion. It is not even necessary for the company which welcomes the worker, which is not the same as the one which is linked to, to insinuate any threat, because it is already under the discriminatory, precarious, fragile and coerce contract which the worker has signed. Monthly contracts, automatically renewed, national minimum wages and the justification for the termination of the contract with a pair of exceptional orders, which led to the strengthening of the work teams. Pure makeup of reality, only to serve as a justification for the desired work flexibility. The worker's work link to the company lasted 30 months. During the first 12 months, he fulfilled all his obligations as a collaborator and even recognized him some merit, assuming greater responsibility. at the end of a year and 12 successive contracts, signed a new contract, began to receive more, but would continue with the precariousness of monthly contracts. A contract in those terms meant not having access to any of the rights in employment contracts, such as, for example, holidays, division of profits, monetary security prize... Up to the Christmas gifts, for the children, he was denied. at the end of 24 months, he took on a new role. He replied to be part of the company's frameworks and, in response, offered him a new contract, now lasting 12 months and without the need of an intermediate company. The pressure on the workers, on their functions, which even leads them to believe that they are fortunate, because otherwise, they would last a short time in those organizations, is grueling. There were even cases of meeters who spent more than two years on monthly contracts, were dispensed and re-called later, walking in this cycle for years and years. It was a multinational company — called by the worker — stable, mature, with a strong union presence, with a committee of workers constituted. However, without surprise, because he already had information, the worker signed a contract with a temporary work firm. This is the testimony of a young worker from the Vale do Ave, licensed, who, without work, in 2013 worked for 30 consecutive months in a metallurgical company. We learn in the banks of the faculties that the law of work regulates the labor relations between employers and workers, in the classic concept of division of classes, with different interests, opposite and conflicting. We also learn that labour law is intended in particular to defend the weakest part: the worker. We all know, however, that this has not always been the case. And in the years that preceded the formation of the current government and the current majority, it was not. For this reason the Socialist Party has set as its central objective the 'promoting employment and combating precariousness'. This is what can be read in the Government Programme, approved in this Parliament, and there are many examples of the implementation of this strategy. Fortunately, for the Portuguese that we represent and for the sadness of so many who would like Portugal to continue to be better with the worst Portuguese, the fact is that the results of the policy options in the promotion of employment and the fight against precariousness are obvious. I therefore ask the honourable Members. Members who excuse me for presenting such results, because, in addition to being unequivocal, that is the real perception of all Portuguese. It would therefore be contradictory that, in spite of this perception, some or some of the political forces would continue to bet on the fearlessness that everything goes wrong and goes on to worse. That is to say, the Government's programme has been met with results and I believe that we are still going in time to say today, in unity: still well! A more contemporary principle invoked, I do not know if it is positive in doctrine, is that of political and legislative stability. It is relatively consensual that legal stability is important and desirable. However, legislative stability is not an end in itself, i.e. the introduction of amendments in the legal order, and in the legal system in particular work, stems from the need to ensure a certain political and social reality. That is to say, the amendments which will appear necessary to ensure justice and protection due to workers only because of the circumstances of the last amendments have been made relatively recently. in these matters which we are discussing today, where there have been changes — the individual hour bank, the temporary working companies, the precariousness in their generality —, the short time is sufficient to conclude that unacceptable situations are set up in the legal system, as the Socialist Party has set up in its Government Programme. However, it is also important that it should be noted that the legislative dimension is not the only aspect in the fight against precariousness. One of the main problems of the Portuguese labour market — the excessive incidence of non-permanent contracts and the precariousness of labour relations — often emerges not from the legal framework but from daily practice. We have an extended set of situations of illegal precariousness, as is the case with the worker I have told you, so it is also essential to bet on the Authority's inspection capacity for working conditions and to ensure better levels of compliance with labour standards. Since the Government's programme has specifically taken on some of the commitments contained in the initiatives we are now discussing, because they result from the Socialist Party's Election Programme, and the Socialist Party has also signed, with some political forces — one of them author of an initiative — specific commitments on precariousness and there is still a public commitment to the conclusion of a medium-term agreement between the Government and the social partners, it seems to us that the path set by the government is the one that we must continue to pursue. Of course, they understand and respect — it cannot be otherwise — the initiatives now presented. Whether substantially or formally, they understand and respect each other. As we also understand and respect the position of the parties to the right of the Hemicycle, which here will certainly remain, as has already happened, in the defence of a perspective opposed to the one we bring here today, a perspective based on precarious work as a virtue for the growth of the economy, the attraction of investment, finally, the cartilage used in the last four years, with the consequences we all know. However, the Socialist Party believes that legislative action should be taken on the path defined at the heart of social dialogue. The PS will comply with its programme by introducing the necessary adjustments to labour legislation, many of which are consistent with these initiatives and which we have always defended. We will be doing so as part of what was also our commitment to the social partners, that is to say, in the context of social dialogue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u179	Mr Luís Soares, your intervention gave rise to a request for clarification, so you have the floor, to this end, Mr Antonio Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u180	Mr President, Mr Luís Soares, I confess that I have heard your speech and I think there are some points that need to be clarified. There are certainly opposite positions between the left and the right here, between the various parties who have come to this debate, but with all honesty, no one can fully grasp the position of the Socialist Party. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u181	I would even say that the Socialist Party is essentially responsible for dissimulation in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u182	Now! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u183	Mr President, is it not true that the Government of the Socialist Party has increased, and much, the number of precariouss that are working in the State? Oh, my God! Is that true or not? Oh, my God! Unfortunately, it's true! Therefore, if you are going to intervene in the pulpit, explaining the position of the Socialist Party, you would agree that you should explain first why the Socialist Party did so. Then, for us to be clear, once and for all, he makes a statement of principles, an absolutely demagogic speech on the precarious situation of many workers, which we understand and, of course, we also have that same concern, but what cannot be excluded from the responsibilities that he, as a Member who supports this government, has in the control of what are possible situations of violation of the law in matters of precariousness. But, Mr President, after this demonstration of principles, will you approve the proposals of the Bloc or the CFP? Don't! They will again reject these same proposals, and also well, because, once again, PCP and the Left Block want to make these legislative amendments without listening to social consultation, which we consider to be an absolute mistake. But to make a speech like what you have done, trying to please your left-wing coalition partners, and then to say, in evidence, that they are going to bring down the proposals presented here, with all honesty, is very little serious. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u184	To reply, Mr Luís Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u185	Mr President, Mr António Carlos Monteiro, it seems that the debate is for something. He recently accused the left of not knowing the reason for this debate, but it seems that he has already reached an end. And the end that Mr here refers to is precisely that! In contrast to what happened four years ago, when Mr Prime Minister who you supported said there was no precarious work today, we see here the real act of contribute on the right, stating that, after all, there is precarious work. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] And so much exists, Mr President, that this coalition, which gives you so many headaches, is precisely solving it. He called for VV condescendence. Ex. to excuse me from repeating the measures that the Government has already implemented in the field of combating precariousness, but I am not, of course, exempt from doing so. And therefore I thank the question, precisely to remind this House that the Government has already strengthened the inspection capacity of the ACT,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u186	Well pray Friar Tomás!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u187	... with a contest for 80 new inspectors. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I am grateful for this opportunity, Mr President, to say that we have already dealt with the interconnection of data between the Act, the Tax Authority and Social Security,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u188	Blah-blah-blah-blah!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u189	... that improvements have already been introduced in Law No 63 / 2013, which aims to make the fight against the situations of individuals with contract more effective. But there was one who spoke of the Public Administration. There's a spectrum that distinguishes the left on the right. It is that, while they had the opportunity in the government, what they did was attack the Public Administration with a requalification programme; what the Government and the majority of parliament are doing is an opposite programme, it is to recognize precariousness and admit civil servants. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] That is why, Mr President, let me tell you: you have to stand up! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] After being in the government for four years, to expel 350 000 Portuguese, to leave unemployment, to cut 130 000 contracts without end,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u190	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u191	... to increase the long-term employment contracts, it must be worth telling us what you told us today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u192	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Sandra Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing several legislative initiatives relating to the precariousness of work and the strengthening of workers'rights, one of the authors of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Portugal, others of the authorship of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block. Even last week we had similar discussion here, through a power schedule, required by the Block of the Left, exactly on these subjects. It's another one! Not that the PSD does not consider it relevant for the country to reflect on labour matters, from the outset because they are exactly the work subjects that are the object of divergence. And no — let them get away! — it is not a difference between those who are in favour of workers and those who are against workers. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]] No, it's not a difference between those who favor rights and those who deny them. It is an ideological difference between those who live tied to the past and consistently defend themselves, say, 40 years ago, provided with an obsolete speech, which denies reality and refuses to adapt to the changes generated in society,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u194	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u195	... and among us, reformists and progressives, who recognize that labour relations have undergone significant changes and new instruments and answers are needed in order to guarantee rights, yes, but to ensure the competitiveness of companies, to ensure economic growth, to guarantee more employment and better employment.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u196	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u197	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, that is why this debate cannot be held aside from social consultation. This debate closes a cause so big and so great for our country that it cannot live imprisoned to ideological concepts of parties that live only from the protest and permanent social tension.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u198	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u199	The PSD values social dialogue as a space for dialogue and social tranquility, a space for cooperation and commitment between the social partners, capable of ensuring progress and development. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Once again, today, we are talking about precariousness. in this legislative session we are already having numerous debates on this subject and have already brought in numerous legislative initiatives, all with the aim of combating precariousness, strengthening rights and reversing labour reform. What you've got here is an achievement. It is an achievement for the country and it is an achievement for the workers, because there are no consequences. It's just rhetoric. It's been just rhetoric! [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]] What has happened here is a political staging, a political staging led by the opportunistic competition between the Left Block and the Communist Party, which dispute the same electorate and dispute paternity in these matters... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u200	...and they want to be power and opposition. [[PSD applause.]] See, ladies and gentlemen. Members : they are the parties of management, they are the parties that support the government, which come here systematically pressure changes to labour law,... [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]] ... by making Parliament the resonance box of the joint positions—which were nothing joint—while the Government, which supports, is graduating with the results obtained with the fall of unemployment, as a result of existing labour law... [[PCP protests.]] ... which is the result of labour reform that the previous PSD/CDS government courageously undertaken. Reform that the PS has always criticised, in a light manner, even — not to say anti-patriot — since it was a compromise arising from the application of the Memorandum of Understanding, to which the Socialist Party was also obliged. But if not, it was a commitment to ensure the solvency of our country, which the PS failed.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u201	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u202	Ladies and gentlemen. Members : Facts are facts. Unemployment in Portugal has started a downward course since 2013. The unemployment rate fell from 17 % in 2013 to 11 % in 2015 where we left it for you. Between 2014 and 2016 the population employed increased by about 176 000 workers. In 2016 the employed population represented only 32 % of this value, which means that about 70 % of the jobs created in recent years were generated by 2015. With regard to the unemployed population, we fell in total by 282 000, and in 2016 there was only 26 % of this figure in unemployment, i.e. unemployment fell by 75 % in total between 2014 and 2015. We created jobs and created better jobs. This means that it was in the previous government that the fall in unemployment and the increase in employment were more pronounced. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u203	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u204	I will finish, Mr. President. This means that this is due to labour reform. So much so that the PS, which has been in the government for more than a year and a half, has not yet reversed labour reform, despite your constant and unrelenting insistence. And why? Oh, my God! Because the Socialist Party and the Government know that this reform was essential and decisive, that its effects are enduring and the government and the country are reaping fruit. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u205	You now have the floor, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, for an intervention, Mr José Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u206	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The parliamentary benches on the right came to this debate with the roles of last week,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u207	There was no need for others!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u208	... and they came to defend the only stability that matters to the right, the stability of abuse, which was registered in labour law by the PSD and the CDS and which is responsible for the fact that today most of the job that is being created is precarious because the law allows it to be precarious, even when we talk about permanent functions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u209	More precarious I wouldn't! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u210	But I would also like to comment on the intervention of Mr Luís Soares of the Socialist Party, because he has brought us a testimony that it is a good proof of how temporary work in Portugal is, most of the time, a lie, a way of makeup relationships to which work contracts and stable links should correspond. You said that the legislative dimension is not the only aspect of combating precariousness. Of course not! There must be supervision, public policy must be involved, worker organisation needs to be strengthened, activism, denunciation, organization, strike, labour struggle, all this is part of the fight against precariousness. But, Mr President, there is a point that depends on you, as is the case with all the Members sitting here, which is the legislative dimension.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u211	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u212	That's what we're forced to choose about. Mr President, we are in a situation where employment has grown, depending on income recovery and economic growth, but the job that has been created, 83 % of it, is not permanent. Why? Because the law allows these abuses, the law allows that the job created, even when permanent, does not have a stable contract, does not have a permanent contract. So, Mrs. Member, the question that remains is: wait on behalf of what? Wait for what? When we, the Left Block, the Portuguese Communist Party, the Greens Ecological Party and the Socialist Party, adopted legislation on forced labour, we had a complaint from employers' organizations in the International Labour Organization. That is why we have not passed legislation on forced labour. If we had waited for months for employers' confederations to accept, by agreement, to end this abuse, we would have expected to sit down. So, honourable Member, the remaining question is: what are we waiting for? We know what precariousness means; we know the consequences it has in people's lives; we know the abuse that is the business of labor brokerage; we know it's a lie. These proposals are currently under discussion to restrict the reasons that allow temporary work to be contracted, to give information and transparency to workers and to limit temporary work. In Portugal a temporary job can last two years! With 740 successive daily contracts, the law allows this, makes no sense, is an abuse of all size! So, Mr President, why is this not the time to take this step? Who are we waiting for? What are we waiting for?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u213	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u214	I will finish, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u215	There are rules!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u216	This Parliament has an obligation to respond to those whom it elects. Who elects us is most of the country, it is the workers who are suffering. They need our commitment and our choice today. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u217	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u218	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PCP Parliamentary Group, of course, regrets the devaluation that the PSD and the CDS here made the discussion...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u219	Who made it was the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u220	... which took place and the devaluation of the question of precariousness,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u221	Who does it are the gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u222	... a very serious problem for the workers but which, by the way, for the PSD and CDS represents little, is of little importance. We regret this devaluation and how they sought to discuss lateral issues. For us, precariousness is a central problem,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u223	Look!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u224	... that needs to be assumed as a central problem that is in the lives of millions of Portuguese workers, with the solution that needs to be found, with the proposals that we have brought here today. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] We know that in 2003 the PSD bench and the CDS bench approved in the Assembly of the Republic the « Code Bagão Félix », with the same argumentary as they bring here today. It was those amendments to the law that were going to solve the problems of unemployment, the problems of precariousness. Fourteen years later, here we are, with the workers in worse conditions than they were at that time, more precariously, with unemployment continuing to be a structural problem, because, as we had said at that time, your speech was just... [[PSD protests.]] ... the speech « to see», because it is not by removing the rights of workers who can guarantee better employment, it is not by attacking workers and trade union organisations who achieve better quality of employment. So, here we are, today, coherently,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u225	They're not, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u226	... to take up this battle, with the PSD and the CDS, say also consistently on the side of the patronage, on the side of whoever wants to liquidate workers' rights. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, today we are discussing this in the Assembly of the Republic, in the afternoon, having been in contact with the workers of Lisnave, with the workers of the call center of EDP (Energy of Portugal ), as we have often been with the workers of Visteon, with the workers of the call center of PT ( Portugal Telecom ), Meo, of the large commercial surfaces of the groups Jerónimo Martins and Sonae, with the workers of AIS — Automotive Interior Systems Portugal, Lda. in Montemor-o-Novo, with the workers of Bosch, in Braga, and so many other companies in this country, where there are serious problems of precariousness. in contact with these workers, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have brought a message, that it is possible, in fact, to correct that problem, it is possible to overcome the problem of precariousness, by changing the law and ensuring that the law does not allow those workers every day to face the hell they face, because they are precarious workers, because they are limited workers in their rights, limited in their working and living conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u227	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u228	I shall conclude, Mr President. This message, which we take to these workers every day, was the message we brought to this House: that it is possible to solve this problem by changing the law. And changing the law means not leaving it in the hands of social consultation, Mr. Members of the Socialist Party ; it means not to leave in the hands of social dialogue...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u229	And go on.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u230	...the power of veto...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u231	Get out of there, vote in favour of the projects!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u232	... employers' organisations to prevent limitations, to prevent disrespect for workers' rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u233	Is that a PCP? Is it now the motion of censure? [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u234	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u235	We need to change the law and that is the compromise that the CFP here assumes. And we will see — and with this conclusion, Mr President — when these projects are voted on, what position each of them takes, not only the bench of the Socialist Party but also the benches of the PSD and the CDS, we will see whether or not they will return to make their class choice against the rights of workers, even though they do, in this Chamber, this fake discourse on social concerns... [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u236	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u237	To conclude, Mr. President,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u238	Is it now the motion of censure?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u239	... I wanted to say that a lateral issue has been brought here, in which the PSD particularly wanted to insist very much on the political situation and how the CFP is or is not, coherently, on the part of the workers in this situation...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u240	Mr President, your time has already been greatly exceeded. Thank you for finishing up.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u241	Mr. President, I appreciate your tolerance. I just wanted to say that this speech by boy Tantecas, from whom nothing learns and from who says the biggest nonsense, despite everything being clear and explained long ago, will not turn us into Morais and Castro to insist, often, on the lessons that boy Tantecasnão wants to learn.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u242	So censorship or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u243	If the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen don't really want to learn about...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u244	Mr President, your time has already been greatly exceeded. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u245	...the reality in which you are speaking today, we will not give you any more lessons, because we already realize that, like Tonekas, you learn nothing. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u246	We then move on to point three of our agenda, with the appreciation of draft resolutions 435 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — An integrated strategy for wine experimentation, research and innovation in the Demarcada do Douro Region ( PSD ), 637 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strategy for Research and Innovation in the Agri-Food Sector ( PSD ) and 920 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Research and innovation in the agroecology sector ( The Greens ). To begin this point, Mr António Lima Costa has the floor on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u247	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal can also be European champion in agri-food. Natural resources, agricultural products, traditional exceptional knowledge and future vision farmers, here is a dream team. But, continuing the analogy, do we have a trainer capable of defining the best tactics and strategies? The Ministry of Agriculture has not had this strategic vision, thinking about the next generation. Only concerns the management of expectations until the next election. The trick is cheap: on what little depends on the action of the government but which can bring electoral gains, there is the Ministry of Agriculture developing national strategies. It is the National Strategy for Biological Agriculture, it is now, until, the National Strategy for Cereal Production. Be serious: they are not strategies, they are strategies to protect solutions and to manage expectations. We support organic farming and cereal production by immediately applying the concrete measures already known for a long time. But as far as much depends on the action of the government, on what requires inter-ministerial coordination, strategic vision, there the alienation of the government is total. A good example: the Government does not have a national strategy for the internationalisation of Portuguese gastronomy. It's urgent work. But the best example, because it is the key to being European champions in agri-food, is the lack of direction in research, innovation and knowledge. in a year and a half, it was limited to resume now the projects realized by the previous government, of the innovation platforms installed at the University of Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro and at the University of Évora. in a year and a half, it was very recently following up one of our proposals here under discussion, which defends an integrated strategy for the experimentation, research and wine innovation in the Douro. in a year and a half, he abandoned the strategy for research and innovation, prepared by the previous government, and became out of line. In fact, there is a specific objective that proves: the Ministry of Agriculture, facing the dynamism and investment dynamics of farmers, boasts that the implementation rate of the 2020 RDP is 30%, but in the middle of the Programme, in the area of innovation and knowledge, you and the honourable Members know. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the implementation rate? It is 8 % — 8 % is a number that speaks for itself. The two initiatives that the PSD brings to this House today aim to draw the Government's attention to how essential it is to put together, in a joint and concerted manner, on research, innovation and knowledge in national agri-food. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u248	To present the draft resolution of The Greens, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u249	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens introduce today, in the Assembly of the Republic, a new concept, that of agroecology, which has never been discussed in Parliament but which can no longer be ignored. Agriecology is mainly characterized by the management of agricultural practices with good environmental and social practices. In order to produce food goods, it respects the regeneration of natural resources and cycles of nature, preserves biodiversity, exploits the remains and by-products of plant and animal origin, restores nutrients to the earth, does not resort to chemical fertilizers, but rather organic products, ensures animal welfare. In short, it promotes clean, healthy and natural food production. To these dimensions, agroecology adds a strong social component, respecting small farmers and seeking food sovereignty. This is a truly ecological concept, which combines environmental, social, cultural, economic and political dimensions, fighting for socially just, environmentally sound and economically viable models. This is, therefore, a concept that goes beyond the simple way of production and its environmental impact, worrying about what is also happening in the amount and downstream of that same way of production, particularly the sustainability inherent in the production factors and also the marketing model. The aim of agroecology is to transform the dominant food system and seeks to resist the agribusiness that is, above all, in the hands of a set of multinationals that have constituted power structures and that manage food production according to their own interests, without the concern of ensuring food and nutrition security to the populations. Intensive agriculture, which generates widespread losses of biodiversity and chemical poisoning of soils, water and food, industrialization of processes, as well as the use of biotechnology in the food field, with the production of genetically modified organisms, have been, over the years, the cause of several food scandals that affect consumers in a lot. in this sense, agroecology is an alternative in defense of the transformation and reconfiguration of fertile lands, but also in defense of agricultural communities, local production systems, respect for the right to produce, with guarantee of social justice, environmental ethics and dignity of small producers. The promotion of agroecology also presupposes a dynamic network of proximity markets, where consumers can supply themselves, as well as fair trade rules. For producers who want to make agroecology a way of life, as well as for consumers who want to consume products from an effective environmental and social awareness, it is crucial that this supply network is operational and widespread. Given all the characteristics of agroecology, it is clear that this concept implies a strong link between traditional knowledge, acquired by experience and sustainable practices that pass from generation to generation, and technical and scientific knowledge that can help promote and generalize agroecology, especially in the context of family agriculture. in this sense, The Greens consider that research in the agri-food sector cannot ignore agroecology and its potential to ensure greater environmental and social justice, its possibility of economic viability and its contribution to food sovereignty. Finally, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, The Greens have come to propose to the Assembly of the Republic a recommendation to the Government that, in the context of agri-food research and innovation, encourage research on agroecology, with a view to establishing and consolidating an alternative agro-ecological production model in Portugal. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u250	To present the draft resolutions of the CFP, Mr João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u251	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not possible to initiate this discussion without recalling the destructive action of the former PSD/CDS Government in the national research network. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u252	We will not allow the PSD to clear its responsibilities through the projects under discussion today. They can now say that scientific research in agriculture is crucial for combating desertification, for the new food challenges, for sustainable use of resources, for valuing low-density territories. They may even consider it urgent to define national strategies for research and innovation or the reactivation of agrarian experimentation. What they now propose in the opposition did not do when they were in the government. at that time, they opened doors and took steps in the opposite direction. The state laboratories and the investigation came to the current situation due to the responsibility of successive governments, in particular the previous PSD / CDS, which closed down the laboratories of the Mirandela, Alcains / Castelo Branco, da Guarda, which kept the National Station of Fruit Culture Vieira da Natividad in Alcobaça, or the National Zootechnique Station in Santarém, which withdrew resources to the germplasma bank in Braga. The PCP denounced these actions, but also researchers, academics and senior technicians, with careers dedicated to research and state laboratories, said that, and I quote: "In recent years, we have seen with concern the degradation of the life of these institutions, with reflections on a huge decrease in their scientific valences, having already led to the total disappearance of many of them, and without any alternatives in Portuguese scientific tissue. They are laboratories that close, ending a fruitful activity for decades. They are collections of biological material, unique in Portugal and throughout the world, which are lost. They are vast heritage investments, with diverse scope, such as laboratories, land structures, buildings, libraries or others, which are at risk of total loss. Do not keep on seeking. ” Problems such as phytosanity, requiring study for more and faster intervention, well demonstrate the importance of public laboratories and the state. An appropriate system of research, innovation and experimentation at the service of the country's development, the increase in production and a fair distribution of the produced value does not exempt the strengthening of the INIAV ( National Institute for Agricultural and Veterinary Research) of the IPMA ( Portuguese Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere ) for the maintenance and development of the intervention capacity and the functions of state laboratories. To this end, it is necessary to assess the closures made by the previous Government in a perspective of consolidating a national network of public research structures and development support. The CFP also proposes that a national conference be held with the intervention of current researchers and technical staff from the laboratory network, farmers' associations, agrarian nuclei from Portuguese universities, for a reflection that helps to establish an appropriate network of laboratories and agronomic stations, technical support and technology transfer. And all this does not dispense with the necessary strengthening of the human and material resources of the services of the Ministries of Agriculture and the Sea, with the aim of creating support, monitoring and advisory services, which have disappeared to the end of the rural extension. These are the proposals of the CFP. We've introduced them before. They're still necessary. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u253	You have the floor, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos Matias.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u254	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is in fact ironic that the PSD will present draft resolutions on innovation in the agricultural sector, after four years of government with the CDS they have done nothing to create an innovation system in the agri-food sector, after drawing up a rural development plan, the RDP 2020, which little or nothing contributes to promoting innovation. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u255	Research and innovation are, in fact, essential for creating new products and services, improving and introducing new cultures, providing environmental sustainability and responding to climate change. But defining a national strategy for research and innovation implies, firstly, recognizing the contribution of small family farming to the production of quality foods with less waste and less carbon footprint. however, what we hear every day from producers and their associations are complaints about the absence of this strategy and state services when they need them most, as well as the fragility of state laboratories. However, since public services have long been deprived of financial and human resources, researchers have been referred to precariousness and the PSD has an unquestionable responsibility. Many farmers, especially the new generation of farmers, produce knowledge that shares through informal networks. PDR 2020, designed by the previous Government, leaves out these more territorial logics and the enhancement of small agriculture, especially polycultural ones, and only favours large agriculture. In turn, the current government has not yet changed this framework. The overallity of family agriculture was outside of Measure 1 — Innovation in the Agricultural Sector — and the results of the open competition are not yet known last year in 2016. Action 2 — Counselling — was limited by the PSD and the CDS and now by the Socialist Party only the mandatory minimum advice on access to the CAP (common agricultural policy) measures when it should be much more comprehensive. But the lock doesn't stay here. There are still no results of notices from the portal establishing the arrangements for the implementation of support for operations under the National Rural Network Action Plan. The opening of a new warning during the month of March, which has passed, was scheduled for June, but there is still nothing known about this warning. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, taking away some very particular cases, innovation in the agricultural sector is paralysed. It must be said that in the dairy sector, without the restoration of quotas or similar mechanism, it will not be research and innovation alone, which will allow us to face the sector's 'tubards' and, with regard to durian wine growing, the draft resolution presented by the PSD ignores the indispensable role of the House of Douro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u256	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u257	I will finish, Mr. President. Finally, the Left Block wants an inclusive and participating research system, linked to the university, institutes and producers, with due public funding and changes in the PDR 2020, which unlock the current situation and contribute to developing the agri-food sector, under the specific conditions of our country and our family agriculture. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u258	Mr Hélder Amaral of the CDS has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u259	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS considers this debate relevant and I would like to say a few things about it. If there was government that, in agriculture and agri-food, let entrepreneurs breathe, let the associations breathe, introduced innovation, introduced young people, introduced more economy, it was the previous government, it was the previous Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u260	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u261	It was in the agribusiness!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u262	We have indeed had a Minister of Agriculture and Agriculture Policy, which everyone recognises and that the data become evident, but today we have a simulation of the Ministry of Agriculture and perhaps that justifies so many initiatives on this subject. It is good to remember that so many young people have never returned to agriculture, never family farming and small agriculture have been so favored from a fiscal point of view, never have Community funds reached such high levels of implementation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u263	And the results? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u264	... never so much money has come to agriculture, never so little bureaucracy has ever bothered farmers as in the previous government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u265	All right! [[Protests from PCP MP Carla Cruz.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u266	I therefore welcome the authors of the initiatives we are discussing today, in particular that of the Greens Ecological Party, whose new approach we have taken but I ask: was the National Day of Portuguese Gastronomics proposed why government? The Mediterranean diet was classified as an Immaterial Cultural Heritage of Humanity with which government? Just look at INE data ( National Institute of Statistics ) to realize that agri-food represents 3, 3 % of GDP ( gross domestic product ), 12 % of employment, 20 % of the manufacturing industry, more than 10 500 companies. [[Protests by PCP MP João Ramos.]] Therefore, the Government agiles and takes previous measures, such as the Riev2 (Research and Experimental Network of Wine and Douro Wine) or the Rexia (National Network of Experimental and Agrarian and Animal Research) and I congratulate my colleague Lima Costa, who addressed the issue of Douro wine. It is clear that agri-food is a sector where businesses, small entrepreneurs, authorities have done a huge job of valuing and recovering wine heritage, cultural heritage, gastronomy, from the whole view of tourism integrated into the new economy. What does the government do? Little and when he doesn't do anything, he gets in the way. That is why it is essential to find mechanisms, involving, of course, universities, politics, installed capacity, as is the case for hotel schools and the Institute of Tourism of Portugal, or state laboratories, as they wish. For what? Exactly for us to take in all the installed capacity and continue to innovate, whether in the agri-food sector or in the wine sector, to be able to have well-used terroirs and protected chestnuts, to take advantage of the whole wine-related economy, whether it is tourist or not. in this way, we can do what all the banks talk about, but it is difficult to achieve: it is necessary to repopulate the interior, the low-density territories, it is necessary to get back from endogenous products and local production more economic, more employment and, eventually, to boost tourism, which is a reality that is still only happening in some parts of the country, but that can happen throughout the national territory, this happens, obviously, by more innovation, by more research and by more capacity of the state to support. The Ministry of Agriculture wants to look at the obvious — and obviously it is to protect the private initiative — and resolve once and for all what is happening on the ground, instead of wanting to make politics for the pages of newspapers or for statistical purposes, and, as someone said, and with this end, Portugal can in fact become a champion of the agri-food industry, a champion of the wine industry, a champion of agrotourism and a champion of biological production, because in fact it has all the conditions to be. It is not only because we have not had Ministers or Ministries capable of protecting this capacity,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u267	This is a strong criticism of Minister Assumption Cristas!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u268	... with the exception of the previous government, and these are data that you will not be able to rebound, as much as you are trying. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u269	Mr André Silva of the NAP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u270	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD is once again finding a way to divert taxpayers' money to offer the powerful and polluting milk industry. As the marketing performance to induce milk consumption is no longer sufficient, the Assembly of the Republic has served as an agency to promote dairy trade. And that well the PSD has played this role of distributing public money to a private sector, which operates in a free-initiative market economy. It's funny to see the PSD defending the state so much! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u271	That's good!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u272	It seems that the PSD is now looking for a supposed research and innovation agenda, with a view to valuing milk. Is that it? But, after all, what do they really want with this project? To define a scientific support that will finally allow Portuguese to have a real right of access to information? Don't you tell me that it is now that in the milk labelling you will find that this food is produced by cows fed with rations based on transgenics? Do you not tell me that it is now that the so-called "scientific support" will allow us to read in milk packages the possible health contraindications resulting from their consumption?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u273	Good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u274	By the way, does this scientific agenda to enhance milk also allow the environmental impacts of milk packaging to be discriminated against?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u275	Mr Ascenso Simões of the Socialist Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u276	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are attending a debate in plenary, which is a motion of censure to Prof.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u277	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u278	It is a motion of censure because the initiatives which the PSD brings here meet what are the central elements of a policy of failure of the previous government in the field of agriculture.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u279	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u280	Of course, the parties on the left also bring censorship initiatives to Mrs Cristian Assumption, but they always did. The novelty is that the party that was in the government with Dr. Assumption Cristas also brings a set of statements and a set of proposals that go in the same direction: that of censoring the Ministry of Agriculture of the previous Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Patrícia Fonseca.]] But, Mr President, unfortunately we cannot have Mrs Cristas with her beautiful dress with a rock pear and kiwis passing through the pink magazines during the previous government. [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u281	The rock pear was in the scarf, the dress was just Kiwi!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u282	We cannot have Mrs Cristas here because, when we discuss agricultural matters, she runs away. And why does he run? He fled because his initiative with regard to State laboratories was to destroy them; he fled because his political initiative with regard to partnerships with universities and the political ones was to destroy them; he fled because his initiative with regard to the issues of wine policy was to destroy partnerships with producers and associations; he fled because his initiative with regard to issues relating to the framework and the sharing meeting, within the framework of private initiatives for innovation, was to destroy them. Therefore, we cannot have Mrs Cristian Assumption in the Assembly of the Republic. But the PSD brings an initiative aimed at developing investment in research in the Douro and I would like the PSD to tell us what happened to this same research in the previous government. It's over! I would also like the PSD to tell us what happened to the House of Douro. It's over! And I would also like the PSD to say who is making the partnership for Douro research today. They are the municipal chamber and the University of Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro. Also the PSD should have reasons to be quiet. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u283	Mr João Ramos of the CFP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u284	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS started telling us it's okay, but then it ended up criticizing the Minister Cristos, and the PSD presented proposals saying that it's all wrong after all. You only meant to attack the state services, in particular the research services—that they had a good understanding. The false concern of the PSD with the productive sectors is clearly evident in the rhetoric around the Douro, after having destroyed the structure of representation of production in the region, the House of Douro, or having left Quinta de Santa Bárbara, which is now so critical.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u285	Have you solved these situations? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u286	Your intention is clear when they propose that the State make the resources available, but without what they call « spirit of guardianship». We know what that means. This has been the great brand of class choice in the policy of successive governments: support for large owners and conglomerates, of national or foreign capital, which have conditions for, alone and from public support, taking on the costs of monitoring and technical advice.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u287	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u288	I will finish, Mr. President. On the other hand, thousands of small farmers are left behind, most of them in Portugal who, by the size of their farms, by the dispersion of the plots, by the type of multifunctional agriculture, by the reduced turnover, have no conditions to cost such support, thus being in the hands of those who sell the products and hand them over to themselves. It is with these political options that it is necessary to break up, and the PCP here is to break up. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u289	To conclude this debate, Mr António Lima Costa, of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u290	Mr President, Mr Ascenso Simões : We reiterate that whoever launched and implemented the Innovation Platform for Wine and Wine in the Douro was the previous government, it was not the current government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u291	And he left her to do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u292	About the House of Douro, if everyone agrees, why don't they reverse the situation? It's lazy!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u293	It's a lack of courage!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u294	This represents laziness, do not pay attention to the Douro. Why don't you return something you all agree on? But it was worth the PSD to bring this issue here today, because it resulted in a very clear message: the PSD and the CDS, but also the Block, the PCP and The Greens, expunging the usual responsiveness towards the previous government,... [[Laughing from PCP MP João Ramos.]] ... consider unanimously that the current government can and should do much more in innovation and research in agri-food. It's worth it, my lords! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u295	Since Mr António Ventura, from the PSD, is still registered, I wonder if anyone from the PS wants to sign up. [[Pause.]] Mr Ventura has the floor, then, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u296	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Indeed, Mr. Ascenso Simões, our project is a motion of censure to this government, which does not meet the National Strategy for Research and Innovation for an Intelligent Specialization 2014 - 2020. [[PSD applause.]] It is a disrespect to all the academies and all the institutes that collaborated in this project, which took months of work. It's actually that. If the government was working on it, this project was not necessary. [[Protests by PS Member Idália Salvador Serrão.]] In addition to a strategy for research, we need a specific agenda for the milk sector. Why? Because the government, in that which was its publication in 2016, has forgotten the research in the dairy sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u297	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u298	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u299	Until finally we have published the mandatory labelling, which derives from the PSD project, but in order to be responsible for valuing and justifying the excellence of this product, which is milk, we need research. This is the responsibility we want to see on all benches, whether or not they will approve our project. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u300	With inflamed interventions of these, it still boils the milk!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u301	Drink the milk! [[PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u302	Mrs. Members, we thus conclude the joint discussion of draft resolutions 435 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ), 637, 920, 922 and 923 / XIII ( 2. ( a). the fourth point consists of the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.os 544 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Eighty amendments to the Nationality Act, adopted by Law No. 31 / 87 of 3 October, amended by Law No. 25 / 94 of 19 August, by Decree-Law No. 322 -A / 2001 of 14 December, and by Organic Laws No. 1 / 2004 of 15 January, No. 2 / 2006 of 17 April, No. 1 / 2013 of 29 July, No. 8 / 2015 of 22 June, and No. 9 / 2015 of 29 July ( PS ), 428 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Nineth amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October ( Nationality Act ) ( PCP ) and 548 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Alter the Nationality Act ( NAP). To initiate the debate and present the PS bill, Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u303	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The matter of nationality once again calls us to the debate in which it is certainly a central theme for the activity and structuring of the State. In addition to being a fundamental right, nationality is also the door to the exercise of civil and political rights and is, above all, an essential instrument for the integration of communities with whom they choose to share their destiny. Since 2006 we have recognized with all clarity that we are simultaneously a country of immigration and a country of immigration and the Law of Nationality has taken very important steps in that year and has deserved a positive assessment at national and international level, precisely on this matter. Now over 10 years have passed, we can in fact make a deep reflection on what was the legacy of this revision of the Nationality Law and revisit it in view of three fundamental objectives: firstly, a strengthening of the rights of those who wish to access Portuguese nationality; secondly, an effort to unburocratize and simplify the procurement procedures; and thirdly, the correction of shortcomings that the practice of day-to-day, over the last 10 years, has been revealing. It is for this purpose that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, faithful to its tradition in this area and proud of those who have achieved the extremely positive results achieved with the integration of migrant communities, proposes bringing to this debate a set of proposals for amendment to the Nationality Act. In the first place, focusing on the reduction of the necessary period of residence of the parents, access to nationality originating from those born in Portuguese territory, recognizing that, indeed, we have a bond with sufficient stability and certainty to ensure this originating nationality; clarifying and improving the regime of naturalization, facilitating the evidence of these same ties with the national community; and even ensuring, in some cases, beyond those already contained in the law, the right to naturalization for those who were born here, for those who have developed their lives, for those who have been here contacting the national community, preventing them from staying in a limbo, where they do not belong to the Portuguese national community or are strongly linked to the community of their parents and the country of origin of their descendants. In fact, we can look at the matter of the naturalization of ascendants as an innovative factor that we seek to introduce into the law, recognizing that, also in the context of nationality, the idea of family reunification and that of strengthening, under the same aegis, Portuguese nationality are, in fact, a factor of additional certainty and confidence for those with us who reside and share their destiny. Finally, to deburocratize and simplify, without prejudice to the reliability of the procedures, is something that is already required in several areas of the Nationality Law as regards the proof of the Language, as regards the criminal registration and how the public administrations of other States should provide information and how the counting of periods of residence in Portugal should be carried out. Here we find material very clear and also resulting from the dialogue that has been initiated with both public institutions, both with the associations representative of the migrant communities and that the National Law should also reflect. That is why, with complete openness and spirit of dialogue, we are open to talking to all parliamentary groups, in particular those who would like to welcome — the Left Block, the CFP and the NAP, who have also come to this debate and who have been participating in it — noting that, although we do not agree with everything that is placed on the table, one thing is certain: we all have the same purpose, we all walk in the same direction, which is the recognition of the strengthening of rights to those who want to continue to live with us and who also want to continue to be Portuguese with us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u304	To present the PCP bill, Mr.António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u305	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we would like to welcome this debate, because we are, in fact, at the threshold of a new adoption of a legislative diploma on the Law of Nationality which may be a very important step in improving the Law of Portuguese Nationality. Indeed, the change made in 2006 was very important. A few days ago, as I was, by coincidence, approached on the street by a citizen who, recognizing me as a member of the Assembly of the Republic, made it necessary to come here to thank the amendment of the legislation of nationality in 2006, which allowed him himself to acquire Portuguese nationality, being a person based in Portugal from a very tender age. It was indeed a legislative amendment which deepened the principle of jus soli, allowing many citizens — many of them born and raised in Portugal — to acquire Portuguese nationality for which they long longed. But, as Mr Delgado Alves has just said, it is time to reflect on this positive experience, to see what is still negative in the Portuguese Nationality Act and to be able to take a step forward in the field of sun juice. We understand that it is justified, taking into account the demographic characteristics that our country has taken and the fact that Portugal is not only a country of immigration, but also a country of immigration, which is justified in taking another step in relation to the consecration of jus soli. from the point of view of the CFP, which is relevant to the possibility of acquiring Portuguese nationality originating in Portugal. That is, who lives in Portugal, who lives here, who wants to live here, who has their children and wants to continue to live here, must have the possibility that the children born here would have Portuguese nationality originating. What we consider as the limit that should not be transposed is what would lead to the consideration of Portuguese nationality as something of convenience. Someone who could be born in Portugal, not wanting to live here, but wanting to come here so that the person born here can have a Portuguese passport, can have Portuguese nationality, and then have no relationship with the national community. That's not what moves us. What moves us is that those who live in Portugal, who have their children here, these children must be able to be Portuguese of origin and this is, for us, a question for which we are baptized. We recognize that the bill that the PS presented does not go so far, but indeed goes far beyond what is currently the Portuguese Nationality Act and therefore we also welcome the initiative that Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves presented here. Mr. President and Mr. Members, on the other hand, there is another relevant aspect which has to do with administrative obstacles remaining to the acquisition of nationality by naturalization. It concerns, for example, the requirement for a certificate of the criminal registration of the country of the nationality of that citizen when he is unable to obtain it. The legislation requires that this citizen obtain a criminal registration certificate from the country of his nationality when that person has never lived in that country and therefore has no possibility of obtaining such documentation. Therefore, the law should not create artificial obstacles, often inexhaustible, which make someone who is objectively part of the national community and want to fully integrate it is prevented from doing so for purely bureaucratic and administrative reasons. There too, there is something to be said about, as well as that requirement of knowledge and the area of Portuguese. It is even a bit ridiculous to require this proof of knowledge to people who were born here, who made their school here and who have always made their life here. It doesn't make any sense. It is also one of those examples of administrative impediments which, of course, must be transposed.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u306	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u307	Mr President, in conclusion, we welcome once again this debate and the legislative process which is now beginning, with the conviction that we are going to take one step — one more — very important in improving the Portuguese Nationality Act. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u308	To present the draft law of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u309	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the Socialist Party on the schedule of this important debate. Nationality represents an important link between the integration of an individual to a State with which it has an intense connection. According to the Observatory on Migration ( OM ), Portugal has since the legislative amendments it has implemented in 2006 one of the most favourable models in the world for the acquisition of nationality, collecting international recognition for the way it has progressively come to bet clearly on an integration policy of immigrants. Despite this international recognition, we believe that there are aspects to be improved. The acquisition of Portuguese nationality, through naturalization by residence in Portuguese territory, and the declaration of will, through marriage or de facto union, present some difficulties of bureaucratic and practical charism that must be eliminated. As such, on the one hand, the NAP considers that, representing the marriage and the de facto union of bonds characterized by the durability and stability of Portugal-supported links, a de facto marriage or union that has the minimum duration of five years constitutes a factor of granting immediate nationality, without the observance of other assumptions. On the other hand, we also propose that the criterion of nationality through residence be reformulated. This is because the obligation of legal residency in Portuguese territory brings enormous practical difficulties in the acquisition of nationality. Such difficulties are easily noticeable, since legal residency presupposes the fulfilment of certain requirements, such as the existence of a contract of employment. However, very difficult a resident in Portuguese territory will be able to obtain a contract of employment without having his status regularized. As such, this formulation has a pernicious effect of practical impossibility of realisation and should be amended, and for the purposes of granting Portuguese nationality, the period of actual and effective residence in Portuguese territory should be raised. Finally, we believe that the period from six to five years should be shorter. We cannot continue to compact with a reality where people who contribute to the progress of the country, who by this time build their social networks and stability, are excluded and are deprived of access to Portuguese citizenship. [[Congrats from PS MP Filipe Neto Brandão.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u310	It is the turn of the Left Block Parliamentary Group. Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u311	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When the right to have rights remains worryingly dependent on the bond of nationality, we realize that this is really a discussion of the greatest importance for a large number of people and for the increasingly important border between a cosmopolitan democracy and a discriminatory culture. In February, the Block of the Left brought to this House a bill just to set what seems to us to be the criterion to take into account in this debate: the need for an increasingly multicultural society as it is, and still comes to be, ours must enshrine the principle according to which each person born in Portugal is Portuguese. That was the regime which prevailed until 1981. We understand that this is the regime that must prevail in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u312	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u313	There is no reason why who is the son of foreign people, but who was born here, who has grown up here, who has created their socialization networks, is not enshrined in the law that is their de facto nationality, that is Portuguese nationality, and that it remains bound to a nationality that is in fact not theirs, which is the nationality of their parents. Our project then went down to the Commission, without a vote, because we believe it is necessary that all convergences be made in the specialist work so that this criterion can make its way and be emphasized in the law. It is with this perspective that we see the projects that are under discussion today. Despite our distances and criticisms regarding these projects, we believe that there is a place for maximum convergence in order for this principle to go. The Socialist Party's bill presents some solutions that seem to us to highlight. From then on, the reduction of the period of legal residence for the purposes of naturalization or the replacement of the abstract penalty for the specific penalty, as regards the grounds for refusal to naturalize, or also the reduction to five years of residence, irrespective of its title, for this purpose. They're positive. But there are also aspects that seem to us to be critical, namely: the maintenance of the double penalty—the punishment of imprisonment more refusal of naturalization—or this somewhat strange concept, a little arbitrary and risky of consolidation of nationality, or, even, the differentiation, in our view, so critical, between PALOP nationals and nationals of other countries for the purpose of testing knowledge of the Portuguese language. There's no reason for that to be so. It is also in the sense of strengthening the jus soli principle that the PCP project goes — and we welcome this project — it is also in the sense of the misburocratization of the naturalization that goes the NAP project — and we salute it for that. None of these three projects — and to this end, Mr President — take the step we consider necessary, which is to enshrine the automatic allocation of nationality originating in a principle of jus soli. For the projects under discussion today, the most important thing is to recognize that, if there is a request in this regard, then there will be the consecration of Portuguese nationality. Neither of these projects amends the regulations on emoluments to be paid for the allocation or acquisition of nationality, which the project we have submitted proposes to be equal to those defined for the issue or replacement of the Citizenship Card. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, despite these limitations and critical aspects,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u314	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u315	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, despite these limitations and critical aspects, we reiterate that it is desirable that, in the field of specialty, we move towards a unequivocal accentuation of the criterion of jus soli in our Nationality Law. This is a requirement of a country that wants cosmopolitan and multicultural democracy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u316	It is the turn of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u317	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I wanted to start by saying that we are going in the middle of 2017 and only this year, that I remember, is already the third time we have discussed the Nationality Law in this Plenary. And this isn't just a law, it's some of the most structural and important laws...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u318	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u319	... that a Parliament may have and discuss. We are concerned about the smoothing and devaluation that is sometimes made of this matter. I would like to say that the meaning of the proposals we are discussing today is gradually undoing the criteria we followed in our law and that it is Portuguese tradition, which is the system of jus sanguinas, which is being slowly, very slowly undone, and at the very least, by several successive initiatives of the gentlemen, to consecrated the system of jus soli. But this, in addition to going to the grip of the entire Portuguese tradition, goes completely to the back of the majority European tradition and, worse, goes to the back of the path that has been followed in Europe. For this outside Europe, the path that is taking is the opposite. Portugal is part of Europe and does not make sense that as part of Europe, it makes a completely different path from what is being followed throughout Europe. Portugal is therefore isolated in this fight which the left now intend to do, pretending that the problem does not exist and that there is nothing going on in Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u320	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u321	Moreover, there is still the question of reciprocity. I would like you to tell me how many and which of the countries to which they emigrate in Portugal — which is who we must first defend — establish rules as smooth as those which you now want to impose. I would like to know what these countries are. It is good to remember that there are many Portuguese who go outside and only to have their residence visa « see in orange palms». Therefore, I would like to understand why you do not think, first of all, of these Portuguese people and think, first of all, about foreigners coming to Portugal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u322	I would also like to say that our system is very balanced and that, in addition to jus sanguinas, it already enshrines rules of jus soli, provided there is effective integration. And this is the key question: effective integration. The rationality of our law is precisely that, it is that there is effective integration and, in fact, there is the consecration of jus soli, which is lost with these rules that you intend to introduce. This is absolutely irresponsible and, I have already said, and I repeat, goes completely to the back of what is being done. Even worse, this is what has given rise to populisms that are seen through this out-of-world Europe and that are going to be aggravating and fattening and that you simply ignore. If this is what they want to transform Portugal, the CDS does not compact with this debate, it will do everything to prevent it and will not fail to identify those responsible when the problem arises in Portugal. In conclusion, I wanted to say that foreigners are obviously welcome and that our system has shown that it is coherent and balanced and has not given any problems. You pretend that this is not true, but the fact is that our system has not given any trouble and does not move into a law without any substantial proof that it is necessary to do so. There is, in fact, evidence for Europe outside that this is not the way.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u323	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u324	I will finish, Mr. President. In conclusion, I wanted to say that, unlike the poet, you know very well where you go and where you want to go. The CDS doesn't want that way and you think they're gonna hit a wall. Here we are to tell you that again. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u325	Mr José Silvano, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u326	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If there are any doubts about the stability and legal certainty that are necessary to assess or make amendments to this fundamental law, many of them have already been given here. in the presentation of your bill, Mr.PAN said that with this law of nationality is in the first place the ranking or the index of evaluation of immigrant integration policies. Now, if you're in the first place, I don't know which way we want to go to get to where. If we are in the first place, we must keep it, we must stabilize the legislation and we must improve the procedures to continue this and not take risks to disturb this situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u327	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u328	I would also like to say that with this Law, over the past 10 years, Portuguese nationality has been attributed to more than 402 000 immigrants, I repeat, 402 000 immigrants, which is a significant number. But it is not just us who have this conviction about stability. Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, in a discussion he had recently discussed an amendment to this Law, said that stability was necessary, he said publicly. In fact, the Government, in introducing the regulation of nationality which it is now publishing, alludes to the legal certainty and stability that it is necessary to have in a law of this nature and of this importance. We therefore say that we need to weigh and balance in the amendments to this legislation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u329	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u330	It is clear that we are potentially in line with many of the proposed amendments, with regard to speeding up, clarifying, deepening the procedures for naturalization and attribution of nationality. We agree with the removal of many of these restrictions, of many of these obstruction mechanisms and of these obstacles and, in particular, we wish to reach a broader agreement on this subject, but we cannot agree — we must say with all our will — with the elimination of Article 6 (1) (e). as a requirement of nationality by naturalization.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u331	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u332	This paragraph states: "They do not constitute a danger or threat to national security or defence by their involvement in activities related to the practice of terrorism in accordance with their respective laws". Although the requirements are cumulative, the question that left the Socialist Party, why is it the draft law that eliminates this point, is the following: what does it mean to eliminate this point of legislation? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u333	Do we want to call into question a heritage that we have acquired, which is security and stability, essential for our tourism, for the creation of wealth and for no incidents in this country? That's the question I'm leaving. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u334	To close the debate, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u335	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I thank the comments made on the initiatives and on the spirit, I think, constructive that we can face the construction of the new regime. I begin by stressing, Mr. José Silvano, that when the last debate spoke in stability, it actually referred to amendments to the Nationality Law which affected Portuguese residents abroad, Law which was very recently amended in 2015. This matter concerning foreigners residing in Portugal who wish to gain access to nationality is not the subject of change since 2006. Therefore, we must distinguish the two fields of intervention and what we propose is to review what 11 years ago is not the subject of amendment. But I would like to focus on Mrs Vania Dias da Silva's intervention just to give notice of some aspects that seem a little perplexing to us in this debate. Firstly, the Portuguese tradition is not what the honourable Member refers to. Until 1981, the tradition was precisely the opposite, as Mr. José Manuel Pureza very well underlined. Secondly, we are not today the country that we were when the law was another. Today, we are a country of immigration and immigration, and we cannot pretend that our law must continue to be the same as when we were just a country of immigration. The inability to evolve and monitor the demographic and social reality that the country has gone through is something that makes the Law less capable of responding to the needs and rights of people seeking an answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u336	The problem is demographic! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u337	Finally, I wanted to say yes, that the path is different from many European countries. I am glad that it is because, unfortunately, we do not find good practice in Europe today in terms of the integration of residents, of migrant communities, and, if we can set the example in the opposite direction, it is with all the pride that the Socialist Party contributes to this debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Indeed, Mrs Deputy, it is the Portuguese that we defend in the first place, but being Portuguese is not a natural gift, which falls only from paper.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u338	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u339	I shall conclude, Mr President. Many of these people live among us and are Portuguese. They may not yet have Portuguese nationality, but they were born in Portugal, have all ties with the Portuguese community and if indeed they are not yet Portuguese it is because the Law is not corresponding to what associations and people themselves tell us. The honourable Member says there's no problem. Talk to the representative associations of who resides among us and find out whether or not there is a problem,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u340	... if people are or are not deprived of their rights. The question is whether we actually have the right to have first and second citizens or whether this is a line of the past that we no longer want to have in our Nationality Law. PS and PAN applause.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u341	We will move on to the fifth point of the agenda, concerning the general discussion of the projects of lein.os 477 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the public control of the technical management activity of the National Electric System by separating its exploitation activity from the national electricity network ( BE), 482 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Agrees on the free choice of domestic electricity consumers by the regulated tariff regime by amending Decree-Law No 75 / 2012 of 26 January ( CFP ) and 545 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Determines the elimination of costs for maintaining contractual balance ( CMEC) and energy acquisition contracts ( EDP ) with EDP and other companies in the electro-producer ( PCP ) sector together with resolution projects 780 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by eliminating the overcost of investment in energy networks and by public control of the REN ( PCP ), 925 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends the elimination of excessive income in the so-called costs of maintaining contractual balance ( BE) and 926 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the amount to be determined in the final adjustment of costs for the maintenance of the contractual balance should be reduced to the 2018 and subsequent electricity rates ( PS ). To present the initiatives of the Left Block, Mr Jorge Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u342	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block has taken the initiative to schedule for today this debate around a project, which is the recovery of public control of network planning and global management of the electricity system. When it was presented, this project was attacked by the REN by supposedly dealing with a renationalisation of the company. It's wrong. It is not that this is not an idea of the Left Block, it is not that the recovery for the public sphere of energy transport networks is not on the agenda in Europe, as in recent years in the campaign for the English elections, was in the view of the Labour Party's proposal. But that's not what we're going to deal with today. We are trying to recover a policy of transparency for the transport of energy. We need transparency when we have a network manager, REN, which should be independent and appropriate and is in the hands of the same shareholder, the People's Republic of China, who owns the main energy seller : the EDP. We need transparency when those who propose the investment plan, the REN, are then paid as a percentage of these same investments and the result is that for years no single investment plan has been approved on the network. We also need transparency, because this management will be increasingly critical of advances in decentralized and intermittent energy production. Therefore, we propose that these functions be separated from the private RN and delivered to an independent system operator and in the public sphere. A second agenda which, in due course, both the Left Block and the Socialist Party and the CFP have used to do so concerns excessive energy income, a debate which has reopened, and in good time, in Portuguese society. in this intervention, I will have no time to return to the origins of these excessive incomes, to the notices and recommendations that were subsequently made to the governments, to the measures that this or that government took or ceased to take. We will not have time to make that history, because today is the time to make a gesture that is clear. It is time for the Assembly of the Republic to give a strong mandate to the initiative of the public authorities—either in government action, either within the regulatory framework—in the interest of consumers and the economy, to eliminate these excessive incomes. That is why the Left Block calls for us to have a unanimous vote on the diplomas that point to the elimination of these excessive energy incomes next Wednesday. They are ahead of us for 10 years, where the stacking of maintenance and contractual balance costs and energy procurement contracts remains above Portuguese consumers. We are in time to do what Spain has already done for more than 10 years, which is to end by decree, as the Zapatero Government has done, with these costs and these meaningless, perverse compensation policies that compromise the functioning of the system and its sustainability. If there was a majority in 1995 for these contracts with guaranteed superluctures, if there was a majority in 2007 to increase the remuneration of these contracts further, in 2017 we have the political conditions of consensus—at least to assess by the public declarations made by all parties over the past few days—the international recommendations and the regulatory agreement to end this unacceptable abuse. Portugal has the highest turnover in electricity compared to other European countries in parity of purchasing power. We are records of energy poverty. Companies and families already deserve us to end this abuse. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u343	To present the initiatives of the CFP, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u344	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The scandalous situation in the energy sector in Portugal for years is a result of the political options of successive governments over the years. It wasn't for lack of warning, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, neither by mistake nor by distraction was by choice. It was by choice that the energy sector was segmented and handed over to the economic groups, in a truly criminal operation for the national interest, which included a protected liberalisation and superlucres guaranteed for the oligopoly of the electroproducers, with EDP, at the head. It was this policy that brought us to this revolting and unacceptable framework in which the country is located: the EDP alone presenting profits of more than EUR 950 million in the last year, accumulated revenues of more than EUR 2, 5 billion from the beginning of these contracts — CAE and CMEC — and the people paying the bill of the most expensive energies in Europe. It's a national scandal that has to end once and for all. The CFP today presents the debate on concrete proposals that enable us to move forward in responding to these problems, defending the public interest, populations, real economy and productive sectors, through Bill No. 545 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ), which determines the elimination of these millionaire contracts with EDP and other companies in the sector, by continuing and strengthening what has already been approved on this subject, on a proposal from the CFP, in the State Budget Act. We propose that a process be initiated with a view to the elimination of EACs and CMECs by 2019 and that the trade margins wrongly obtained with these contracts be returned to consumers by reducing electricity tariffs for the future. We propose, however, that the procedures and mechanisms for the evaluation of these contracts, which are scandalously attributed to the private company REN, are already assumed by ERSE as the function of the State that they are and must be. We present draft resolution No 780 / XIII, by eliminating the overcost of investment in energy networks, so that the REN and EDP Distribution stop passing the costs of these investments over consumers and by the public control of the REN office, taking into account the clearly public function of the State, which represents the management of the access and transport of energy and even the order of activation of production according to the needs of national electricity and natural gas networks. We also present Bill No. 482 / XIII, which allows and enshrines the free option of domestic electricity consumers by the regulated tariff regime. We want to highlight a very simple and concrete measure, which can make a huge difference for people by reducing their energy bill. The approval of this proposal from the CFP will allow consumers to exercise their freedom of choice, which is still being denied to them today. With this proposal from the CFP, the consumer can return to the regulated tariff regime, precisely the one where it has been achieved now—and where more and better will be achieved in the future—to contain increases and boost price reductions in energy. They are concrete solutions to people's problems, political options that defend the country and face the interests of the economic groups in the energy sector. But here we want to reaffirm what life is trying to prove every day: only with the recovery of public control of this strategic sector for the economy and national sovereignty itself can we fully guarantee this value, with the defence of national interest, the productive sectors, micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, with a true energy sector serving the people and the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u345	Mr Hugo Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u346	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group welcomes these initiatives today under discussion, in particular because they follow up on the concerns that the PS has been presenting. over the years, the discussion about energy services has settled in a set of techniques, some of them being discussed today, such as commonly known by CMEC (contractual balance maintenance contracts), the CEE (energy acquisition contracts) or the office center. These techniques cannot hide the impact on the Portuguese portfolio and on the costs of our companies. this year and half the Government of the Socialist Party and this new parliamentary majority was able to make much progress in the area of energy. The tariff deficit dropped more than EUR 300 million, debt interest decreased to 1, 8 %, reducing EUR 20 million. A subsidy given to electricity production companies called power guarantee was cut by 50 %. We have reached more than 800 000 families, I repeat, more than 800 000 families, the social rate that others left in about 80 000. This year we also saw a fall in natural gas tariffs between 18 and 28 % and the lower rise in electricity prices over the last 10 years and, for the first time, below the inflation rate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are available to continue this path by discussing the applications of the free market and the regulated market always in safeguarding consumer protection and the principles of competition, which leads us to want to improve and work in committee the proposal of the CFP on this matter, which we welcome. Two diplomas relating to the ownership of the REN office office are presented today, a relevant issue that deserves the highest attention of the State. The privatisation of the REN by the former Government has left the country limited and conditioned. I stress that, in the context of the 2017 State Budget, public scrutiny by the Assembly of the Republic of the REN Investment Plans was approved. This proposal aims to ensure greater transparency of the process, which may affect the tariff, and must, however, safeguard the principles of solidarity between territories and the commitment to renewable energies crucial to our country. The remuneration of such investments should be discussed. We understand the need for this discussion and are in accordance with its principles. However, the error in the way privatization has taken place puts enormous contractual limitations and the costs for Portuguese taxpayers and for the country are not completely measurable. The process of alienation of the REN by the former Government was clearly a mistake. in recent weeks we have been witnessing a great discussion about the costs of maintaining contractual balance, the so-called CMEC. The same, and it is good to remember, were created in 2004 by a PSD/CDS government. In the State Budget for 2017, its final adjustment was foreseen and this amount was assessed by the regulatory entity of the sector, yes, because also here the process of privatization of the REN was a mistake. When the legislation was prepared, the REN was a public company. How much is that worth today? Privatization was poorly done, as evidenced by the fact that the same shareholders were placed in EDP and REN. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, only in the last year were cut more than 100 million in incomes, while the former Government, through Decree-Law No. 32 / 2014, placed 240 million euros in costs with CMECs in 2017 and 2108 and stated that there were no more excessive incomes in energy, classifying the former Government this debate of « energy marialvism ». We are and will continue here for debate, consumer protection and public interest. These CMEC contracts, often called energy revenues, should be renegotiated, starting in 2017 the end of their operation and their final review which should be audited on behalf of the public interest. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u347	Mr António Topa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u348	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block Parliamentary Group, with Bill No. 477 / XIII, and the PCP Parliamentary Group, with draft resolution No. 780 / XIII, essentially aimed at the recovery by the State of ownership of the assets necessary for the overall management of the national electricity and gas system that are granted to the REN. Proponents, with their projects, according to their view, have as their objective the problems of transparency and the conflict of interests placed by the privatization of the REN, placed by the privatization of the REN, thus seeking to act in the defence of the public interest and of the consumers of electricity. In general terms, since 3 minutes is too little time to deal with this issue, it is reported that the activities of the REN are subject in a very strong way to the supervision, control and scrutiny of various entities, including the Assembly of the Republic, Government, Directorate-General for Energy and Geology, ERSE, CMM and bodies of the European Union. The European Union and ERSE did not raise any conflict of interest in the activities managed by the REN ; the REN does not have any intervention or activity involving the purchase and sale of energy; the REN was certified by the ERSE and the European Union as an energy operator. Energy policy is the sole responsibility of the Government. REN is the only part of its implementation. With regard to the situation in Europe, more than half of the operators have a majority of private capital and all operators plan their networks, with the exception of the United Kingdom, where planning is made up of another company. No country with a single transport operator has a state system operator and a private network operator. The assets of the REN will have in the next four-year period, from 2018 to 2022 — this is concrete data — a negative growth of - 15 % for the electricity grid and 24 % for the gas network. In other words, capital depreciation values will exceed investment values in the electricity and gas network. And, as the REN is paid due to the growth of its assets, it does not seem to us that there has been no concern and care of decision-makers in defending the public interest and consumers after privatisation. Assets won't grow. There is a clear criterion for the dispatch: priority is given to entering the network into lower, market-acquired, and renewable energy. In the face of the projects submitted by the PCP and the Left Block Parliamentary Groups, we ask: do the Left Block and the PCP have substantiated and proven doubts as to the impartiality or existence of conflict of interest, or the non-defence of the public interest, by the operator of the electricity and gas transmission networks? Does the Left Block estimate the amount of compensation to be paid by the Portuguese State to the operator of the national electricity and gas transport network by the integration under public control of the overall technical management of the national energy system?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u349	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u350	Mr President, just give me a second so I can finish. For draft law No 482 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), submitted by the CFP, the period of compulsory accession of consumers to the free market has already been extended until 31 December 2020. The fewer accessions to the free market are made more consumers who have joined and who can join will have to pay the overcosts of the ICES (costs of general economic interest ). [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u351	Mr President, it was a little bit more than a second, but it was within the limit. Mr. Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u352	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, three minutes to talk about this is clearly little, but I will still try to see if the proponents of these initiatives are serious in this debate or if we are before a debate of the « account », like « we do not like, we do not want, but at the end everything remains as it is ». It is crucial to realize what we are talking about: you know that between 1990 and 2004 when energy was liberalized, energy cost prices decreased. You know that's true. Mr. Jorge Costa asked when they increased.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u353	Is that a serious debate? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u354	It's a serious debate! The prices increased when the Portuguese Government decided to introduce the PRE regime (specialised production) and it was exactly the existence of feed-in tariffs under special production regime which caused the price of electricity to be increased. Then there was another episode in 2004 with the introduction of CMECs ( cost of maintaining contractual balance) by a Government of the Democratic Social Party, but this introduction was rational, had to do with the liberalisation of the sector and had coverage of the European Union, which said it had to be a monitored and retroactive regime. When does this all take unacceptable dimensions that are now outraged by the bench on the left? at that great moment in 2006, which is the « moment Pinho ». The "Pinho moment" generates tariff deficit, the "Pinho moment" generates an increase in the exploitation of some water and an increase in CMECs in a completely unusual way. This is why you are now outraged, but you have been quiet all this time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u355	We haven't been here!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u356	Who's the father of the tariff deficit? Is it someone from the PSD Government and CDS or is it Mr Manuel Pinho, former Minister of Economics of the Government of José Socrates? We give the paternity to those who have that merit. On the initiative of the Left Block, we can say that it is also bound by something that is normal in the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party, which is to say: « we do not like private people, we find that private people do not do well to the economy, we want it all to be nationalized». Now, this seems perceptible and coherent, I will say, but I no longer understand the position of the Socialist Party that leaves in the Memorandum of Understanding the privatization of the REN, negotiates a set of privatizations and now comes to say that the privatisation of the REN was badly done. But does the REN have or does it not have investment and development plans approved and monitored by ERSE? Did it or did it not make ERSE a reduction in the REN investment plan since this plan has a direct impact on the cost of energy? Do you or do you not have Parliament monitoring the same investment and development plans? Does REN have any blame for the existence of feed-in tariffs? Many of you. Members point out — and I also agree — that Portugal has four days only and only four days of renewable energy production. But do you know the cost of introducing these renewable energies into the system, with more consumption production? We have the gas or coal plants to be subsidized and, therefore, we agree that power guarantee, CMEC and CAE must be reviewed. All of this is to be reviewed and, if possible, to complete the contracts entered into by the Portuguese State. Let's do it! It is that if there is a government that did not increase a single euro in the cost of energy, it was the previous government, and it did more, cut. There are laws that I do not have time to list them, but if you consult them you will see that the cuts were 2000 million in the first phase and more than 3000 million in the second phase. If you can save a euro that is in CAE, in CMEC and in power energy, you will have the CDS a word of comfort and support to make those cuts. Have the courage to make those cuts and not just to do just demagogy, good is right, but that ultimately does not save consumers at the price of electricity they pay. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u357	You have the floor, Mr Hugo Costa, for one speech, you have the floor, 10 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u358	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, after these speeches by the Members of the Social Democratic Party and the CDS, I read only the title of an interview of 21 June 2014 on the holder of the folder at the time : « There are no more excessive energy incomes », the PSD said at the time. The same was also said: « I confess that I no longer have patience for energy marialvism or theorists who talk about the costs of maintaining the contractual balance ». I have the interview here and it's important to focus on it. The Socialist Party proposes, in this debate, something demanding and fair, that the gains with CMECs come to consumers and that these gains be taken advantage of for those who spent and spent for years and years at such costs. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u359	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor, which has only 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u360	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We note that the PSD and the CDS have responded to arguments that have not been given in the debate, while they have ignored at all central issues that we have raised. They say there if they agree that people who have moved to the liberalised tariff can return to the regulated tariff and benefit from the measures that have been taken to contain price increases and reduce tariffs. [[CDS-PP protests.]] There's a problem with that, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? Is there a problem where the CFP proposal is approved? The CDS came to defend the so-called energy liberalisation and even billionaire contracts that were guaranteed in the governments in which they participated. From the first moment and from the first hour, the CFP warned, the CFP has predicted and prevented the implications and consequences of these harmful and ruinous contracts for the country in which you have put us and, once and for all, it is time to recognise that this policy of privatization and liberalisation of the energy sector needs to be reversed. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u361	Mr Jorge Duarte Costa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u362	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We regret that the PSD has not spoken on the issue of CMEC negotiation, we count on the strength of the CDS for a strong renegotiation on behalf of consumers and we are waiting for the PSD position on Wednesday. With regard to Mr António Topa's objections to the REN, he referred us to the regulator to entrust the regulator. I would like to remind you, Mr President, that there are strong limitations on the overlap of shareholders between those who transport energy, who manage the system and producers. Previously, it was forbidden by law that they had overlapping quotas and now it is no longer because the PSD lifted that ban. This is what introduces a suspicion of conflict of interest and lack of transparency that only the public ownership of system management can allow. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u363	Mrs. Members, let us move to the last point of our agenda, which is from the discussion of draft resolution No 860 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote measures to prevent and combat cyberbullying and cybercrime ( CDS-PP ) in general with Bill No 546 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates the school integration pedagogical offices ( PCP ) and draft resolution No 921 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Prevention and combat of cyberbullying ( The Greens ). To present the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u364	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss three initiatives that generally deal with the subject of cyberbullying, although, in good rigour, the PCP bill is a little away from this topic, having a broader approach to indiscipline in school. in the case of the CDS, the motivation to present this draft resolution results from constantly receiving news, and often complaints, about the difficulty and impreparation with which society in general is to prevent and deal with digital phenomena, such as cyberbullying and cybercrime. The fact that the use of the Internet and digital tools is almost universalized today, especially in younger generations and for several times with less agile or more proficient use in older generations, creates a challenge for everyone, such as knowing through which instruments and through which institutions we can prevent — and in some cases, if necessary, repress — what damage can happen to this potentially more computerized use of the Internet. The recent case of 'Blue Whale' is well paradigmatic of a phenomenon for which the adult world only woke up later and, in some cases, too late and must be treated in a multidimensional way, with a particular focus on information and training. According to a study of the Beat Cyberbullying research project : Embrace Safer Cyberspace, funded by Erasmus + project and attended by Portuguese teachers from the Faculty of Psychology and Education at the University of Coimbra says that— and I quote— "there is much work to do to prevent the phenomenon, especially at the level of awareness among children and adolescents for potential risks of communication mediated by technologies." Young people say they need to receive information on the various aspects of the problem, i.e. to receive training in terms of both the prevention of cyberbullying and the use of technologies. In addition, young people also say they do not know whether their schools have measures to prevent and deal with this form of violence. This means that there is, in fact, a lot to do and in continuous terms even because of the dynamism that characterizes these digital phenomena. For this work, it is necessary to promote a concerted action of families, schools, health services and the judiciary, the latter as a specialized entity through the National Unit of Combating Cybercrime and Technological Crime. For all this, the CDS Parliamentary Group recommends that the Government use the specialized means available, such as UNC3T, with its duly extended scope for training and prevention in school, be basic, secondary or higher; that this information dimension be extended to parents, in particular by promoting the proper use of parental control tools; that the Safenet programme, which has existed for several years in schools; that its actions and results be made transparent; that a more effective link be promoted with the field of health in proximity, in particular in the areas of pedopsychiatry and mental health; and that a link be promoted between the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Internal Administration and the Ministry of Justice, in order to allow rapid mechanisms of action, such as the blockade for access to applications, as in the case of 'Blue Balleia Azul'. The safety of our young people, whether inside or outside the school, has been a constant concern of the CDS-PP and it is precisely in this line of action that this draft resolution is included. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u365	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u366	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Violence in the school environment is one of the ways social conflicts take place in school communities, constituting a cross-cutting phenomenon. The inability of many schools to deal with this reality comes objectively from the lack or insufficiency of human and material resources. The reflection of the CFP on this subject, based on the experience and life of the school, of those who work there, of those who study there, of those responsible for education, is that only an integrated political intervention that takes into account the specific social and cultural conditions of the community can respond to the various concrete problems that are felt. For this reason, the CFP advocates the taking of measures that are true instruments to promote an environment of teaching, learning and socialization that is more inclusive and more democratic within and outside the school. with regard to the interior of the school, it is essential that work lines be adopted that effectively contribute to the suppression of the phenomena of exclusion, indiscipline and violence. We have presented several initiatives in this regard and today, once again, we propose the creation of educational offices for school integration in groups of schools and non-grouped schools, as applicable. The aim of these offices is to discuss and promote active and proactive measures to dynamize the socio-cultural aspects of the school and follow-up measures to signaled students to whom corrective measures have been applied.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u367	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u368	We also understand that multidisciplinaryity is of great importance in combating these phenomena, together with democratic, participatory and participatory intervention. in this sense, we propose that these offices be composed of psychologists, professionals of education sciences, social workers, teachers, non-teachers and representatives of student associations, and may be called to participation other educational agents or the surrounding environment. We believe that the necessary response to violence in the school environment in its various aspects, through bullying and cyberbullying, cannot be restricted to a specifically oriented response and must go through ensuring well-being in schools and creating a healthy, motivating and happy environment for school communities. Violence at school does not cease to exist in the face of a tight surveillance of a human or technological nature, becoming masked, as reality has shown, of other and new forms of violence. Agitating the penalty to the detriment of inclusion, removing the component of the elaboration and adoption of concrete measures at the political and social level, does not act on the genesis of the problem and rather acts on only one of its manifestations. Thus, what the CFP proposes is that we can act in order to build a freer, more inclusive, more democratic, more healthy school, with material and human resources suitable for its role in the formation of the individual's integral culture, making the school an instrument of development and true emancipation and individual and collective overcoming.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u369	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u370	I also address a word about the initiatives we are discussing today and, in particular, about the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, which deserves us some doubts about the solutions it proposes, especially when it speaks of some functions that it now intends to assign to the National Combat Unit for Cybercrime and Technological Crime. It seems to us that some measures effectively lack effective judicial control mechanisms and may cause some confusion between the specific mission of this Unit and what should be the specific mission in school and the development of the educational role of the school. Therefore, we consider that there are some solutions that deserve further reflection and we present as a broader and more diverse solution the proposal of the Portuguese Communist Party in relation to the pedagogical offices of school integration. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u371	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u372	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As soon as possible, the Internet has taken up a very significant space in the lives of many people, especially children and young people. Despite the undeniable advantages of using the Internet, particularly at the level of information research for school work, it is important to be aware that the Internet has opened a door to reach a wide audience that requires real care, especially for children and young people. Through social networks, space has been extended to bullying, which has already led to situations for tragic purposes, such as, moreover, public knowledge. Cyberbullying is a phenomenon that society in general and public authorities in particular should not be indifferent. If it is true that there is a responsibility of families to structure their children for the safe use of the Internet, it is also true that there are, among other things, two public areas that can and should play an important role, which are health services and school. in fact, the existence of a family doctor for all citizens is a way of preventing and diagnosing early problems of vulnerability, depression or any level of mental health problems, which, in fact, should be taken as seriously as physical health problems. On the other hand, I am talking about educational establishments. It is true that teachers are decisive agents in the detection of problems and in the search for their resolution, but it is not the teachers who are responsible for technical assistance for children and young people, who require psychological monitoring. This is one of the responsibilities of the psychologist in school and the provision of this technical assistance in school is crucial to detect cases of frailty and victims of violence that, being accompanied, can prevent many desperate situations and prevent the worsening of other cases. The benefits resulting from the existence of psychologists in schools are now widely proven at various levels and may also have a crucial role in preventing and combating cyberbullying. The problem is that the instability or professional precariousness of school psychologists, as well as the excessive number of students that each of them has to accompany, does not allow to create the conditions indicated for the greatest success of the relevant intervention of these professionals. The successive governments have, moreover, largely neglected the usefulness and creation of effective working conditions for school psychologists. It is recalled that the last contest to admit to the career psychologists for the services of psychology and guidance occurred in 1997, therefore 20 years ago. In fact, in Portugal there is a school psychologist for more than 1600 students, when there should be one psychologist for every 500 students. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, The Greens give great importance to the work of psychologists in school context and, over time, we have proposed the integration of professionals into the career and the effective recruitment of more psychologists into schools. We believe that the importance of preventive awareness of children and young people in bullying and cyberbullying matters should not be overlooked, so training and information in schools directed to students is absolutely crucial. For this reason, Les Verdes presents its legislative initiative to propose, on the one hand, the implementation of an agenda, with defined objectives of information and awareness-raising on cyberbullying aimed at compulsory school communities and involving the entire school community and, on the other hand, the hiring of more psychologists in school context so as to reduce the ratio of students to follow, thus allowing better working conditions and thus better results in the success of children and young people. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u373	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Alves Moreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u374	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Of course we are all concerned about the phenomenon of cyberbullying. I believe that sometimes there is some confusion in the draft resolution presented by the CDS between cyberbullying and cybercrime and often cyberbullying is not necessarily a crime, so one of the first recommendations of the CDS would in fact require judicial authorization. But the phenomenon of cyberbullying is being faced by the current government. The cores Secure School and the teams of the Secure School Program are known. PSP collaborates directly with the Portugal Telecom Foundation in the development of the Communication in Security program. Also within the framework of the Secure School Programme, the current government has reactivated the Secure School Programme Coordinator Group. It could refer to other initiatives such as the Safer Internet or the Security Click operation. Regarding the last three recommendations of the CDS resolution project, PSP is already developing a pilot project that aims to study a joint response between schools, PSP, families and specialized teams of pediatricians and clinical psychologists. As for the PCP bill, when creating the pedagogical offices of school integration, it emphasizes the intervention of other professionals than teachers and restricts their intervention in this sphere of action. The questions of behavior are essentially questions of classroom management, from which they are essentially from the teaching and teaching forum. in schools where these problems reach a more worrying dimension, this response already exists, requiring, yes, to be densityd and improved. As for the draft resolution of the Greens Ecological Party, with the planned development of the project of autonomy and curriculum flexibility, the Ministry of Education has planned measures to enable them to intervene at this level. On the one hand, the provision to all students, in the different years of schooling, of content that covers information and communication technologies, which will allow a more conscious and intended work of learning about the use of the Internet; on the other hand, and in conjunction with that, the integrated approach to the issues of citizenship and development, which will enable these topics to be worked with the students. In addition, the Ministry of Education, by the Directorate-General for Education, develops several initiatives, through the SeguraNet programme, with schools and students, in order to raise awareness of good practices in the use of the Internet and social networks. In addition, in the classroom, in the context of health education, the topics related to mental health are already discussed, cross-sectionally, in order to raise awareness of the warning signs that some students can highlight and emphasize the essential role that families, teachers and peers have in preventing this type of behavior. with regard to the allocation of schools with more psychologists, it reaffirms the effort that the Ministry of Education has been making, unlike the previous government, in order to meet all needs. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u375	You now have the floor to Mrs Sara Madruga from the Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u376	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Cyberspace is at first sight a fascinating reality, where there are no faces, where there are no places and where there is no space. The day and night borders are lost in the virtual reality of the Internet, but it is behind this reality that great risks and dangers are hidden. Risks, above all, for our children, who have been sailing, interacting and communicating over the Internet for a long time, are often greater than those whose parents imagine. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: in recent times there has been an increase in the phenomenon of violence, persecution and humiliation through the Internet and games have emerged that incite children and young people to commit suicide. From day to day, we were confronted with the Blue Whale game, which left the whole country in shock. Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Members, you cannot be indifferent to this new reality and to the particular vulnerability of children and young people. That is why the PSD accompanies the concerns of the CDS-PP initiative in order to strengthen prevention and combat cyberbullying and cybercrime. There is much work to be done in this area and the CDS initiative is therefore very welcome. We believe that the front line in the fight against these crimes is prevention. Prevention must begin in our homes and continue in schools. The PSD considers it the duty of the Government to bet on the information and training of children and to invest in the digital literacy of parents and teachers. It is therefore important, ladies and gentlemen. Members, let the children make good use and secure access to the Internet and be fully aware of the risks of their misuse. Schools must be prepared for these situations and have measures to prevent and deal with these new forms of violence. We therefore need to find new approaches and strategies to motivate and involve different audiences in the safest use of the Internet and in the fight against cyberbullying. Concerns about these matters began with the former Government and should therefore continue to be considered priority by the current Executive. Similarly, and to that end, the Government should allocate more means to the National Cybercrime Combat Unit and create rules governing the conduct of social media users. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Other measures are always possible, the important thing is that, at the end of the line, they can eliminate or at least minimize the risks inherent in the digital revolution and the use of the Internet and thus ensure greater security for our children and our young people. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u377	Mr. Luís Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u378	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The role of the Internet today is unequivocal. It has invaded the lives and daily lives of millions of people, including children and young people, today represents an expansion of research instruments, an expansion of freedom of expression, but it has also brought with it the possibility of crimes and abuses, as is the case with cyberbullying. And here it is important to reflect on the subject, to point out ways to combat this new crime wave and to understand how the Internet is an instrument of these same abuses. What is crime must be punished and, in this sense, it is up to the security forces and justice to do this work, be said of passage, meritorious. But in this debate, it is also important to address bullying and cyberbullying in the context of school and youth, to study it as a social and youth phenomenon and also to study it as a problem that deserves answers beyond repression and punishment. And these answers, which have to go beyond punishment, as I said, begin by building an open school, free of prejudice and discrimination, which supports victims of abuse, without forgetting that all must be included. Support offices and the strengthening of the number of psychologists, students and clinicians are important steps to this design. The school must be exactly that: the desire and the mirror of fighting bullying, the fight that goes beyond this or that circumstantial measure but which is assumed as a structural pillar of its public service mission that wants to prepare young critics, free of homophobic prejudices, xenophobics and others. And that is precisely why today, in the face of the projects under discussion, the Left Block has the willingness to discuss them, to improve them, because it is a worrying theme but also because it is a challenging theme for the next few days, ensuring that the Internet is no longer an area of freedom but at the same time has a new reading and a new framework for the protection of the most disadvantaged. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u379	For a second intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u380	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To clarify, we spoke on a training mission of UNC3T (National Unit for Combating Cybercrime and Technological Crime) not on a prospect of police action but on a prospect of benefiting from its specialized and updated information, in a generalized preventive logic. As for the work that the Government is doing, the fact is that it has increased the number of cases that have been reported and it is not easy to find information on the various sites mentioned, exactly what the Government is doing. And I give as an example the specific case of SeguraNet. in this sense, the initiative of the CDS has the merit of, at least, bringing to this Chamber, for discussion, an issue that is in the concern of many, in particular parents, and of bringing, above all, in this logic, that continuous and up-to-date training of educational agents on the ground is needed. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u381	Mrs. Members, we have reached the end of the joint debate on draft resolution No 860 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ), of Bill No 546 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), in general, and draft resolution No 921 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). Before closing our work, I ask Mr. Secretary, Mr.António Carlos Monteiro, to give us an account of an initiative that has entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u382	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, he entered the Bureau, and was admitted, Bill No. 552 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Ensures the duty of professional disconnection and reinforces the supervision of working hours by 15. the amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 7 February ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-12.u383	Mrs. Members, the next plenary session will be held on Wednesday at 3 p.m. and we will proceed to the debate of Question No 11/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — On health policy ( PSD ). at the end of the debate, there will be scheduled votes. I wish everyone a good holiday. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 46 minutes.]]
