ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. [[It was 10 hours and 7 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary Emília Santos will read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau, and the following legislative initiatives have been admitted: Parliamentary assessment No 32 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — With regard to Decree-Law No 18 / 2017 of 10 February, which regulates the legal regime and the statutes applicable to health units of the National Health Service with the nature of business public entities as well as those integrated in the administrative public sector ( CFP ) ; Bill No 458 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Gives the nature of the executive title to the final decisions of the Act and amends the procedural regime applicable to labour and social security counter-ordinations by amending Law No 107 / 2009 of 14 September ( CFP ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; and draft resolutions 738 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government allow the use of analytical results obtained with spot samples in the control of polluting discharges ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 739 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government report to the Secretariat of the Espoo Convention the violation of the Convention by Spain due to the lack of communication to Portugal of the intentions to extend the useful life of the Santa María de Garoña nuclear power plant, as well as the absence of a cross-border EIA ( PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission, and 740 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establishment of a possible committee for decentralization of powers at the level of local authority ( PSD ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u3	Mrs. Members, we turn to the first item on today's agenda with the general assessment of Bill No 50 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates the legal regime for transport by vehicle from an electronic platform and from draft law No 450 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establish a new legal regime for passenger transport activity in decharacterised light motor vehicles ( BE) together with draft resolution No 724 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures that modernize and introduce transparency in the taxi sector ( BE). To present the bill, Mr Minister for the Environment has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It does not make sense that activities involving the transport of people are not regulated, even in a country where the economic initiative is free. The emergence of new forms of business based on the digital economy poses complex challenges where rigidity undermines the emergence of businesses, job creation and the provision of services to the common public. The least formality in passenger transport has existed for years, but the emergence of platforms for mobility has given a dimension to this business of which the State cannot withdraw for reasons of consumer protection, guarantee of workers' rights and compliance with tax obligations. The Government's proposed law has exactly this object: it defines rules for platforms; it creates rules for operators, requiring them to be companies and thus ending with the occasional biscuit and driver; it defends consumers by imposing rules for vehicles and drivers, ensuring standards of high demand in the quality of the service provided; and it imposes electronic billing, inhibiting tax evasion. Transport in decharacterized vehicle is not a public service and therefore does not benefit from tax exemptions from taxis, cannot use the bus tracks or occupy public space in the squares. In other words, the requirements imposed on TVDE(carriage in uncharacterized vehicle from electronic platform) are much greater than taxis, and it is normal so. TVDE vehicles, for example, cannot have more than seven years of life, while taxis simply pass the inspection. In all the text of the bill, they can only say that the training hours of TVDE drivers are lower in number than those required to be taxi drivers, but here the absurdity is in the number of hours required to taxi drivers, which can and should be reduced. Quotation and alvará are the language of the New State. Tell me if the taxi quota has improved the service provided; tell me - if the quota per municipality is positive, that it is good for the air quality that a taxi returning to its city of origin has to go empty and that it is the customer to pay for this trip of going and returning, when I only enjoy the trip; tell me that it guarantees the balance of the distribution of taxis within the municipality, which is positive for the economy and for the tax that a municipal licence, which costs hundreds of euros, can be sold in the OLX for more than 100 000 € last day. For those who think so, the truth is exactly the opposite. Taxis and TVDE are fundamental ways in the urban mobility ecosystem that has a common competitor: individual transport. The rules proposed by the Government to this House guarantee the loyalty of the position of TVDE and taxi to strengthen their competitive role in urban mobility. in our proposal there is no opposition to each other. Taxi and TVDE, in their specificities, can and should operate in parallel, as is already the case in so many countries. The citizen will choose, for each of his travels, what best serves his purposes. I want to believe that the benches of this Parliament will seek to find a path of convergence that goes beyond the mere political struggle and that honours the innovative vocation that we all want to be proud of. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u5	To present the initiatives of the Left Block, Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Three years after the multinational Uber began to carry out a paid activity of passenger transport in light motor vehicles, setting up a typage without being licensed to the effect, three years after two petitions, one in favour of Uber and the other against, had been discussed in this Chamber, three years after several and energetic demonstrations of taxi professionals, who denounced the immobility of governments and authorities, which took too long to implement court decisions, which pointed out clearly for the prohibition of Uber's activity and continued to develop its activity illegally, three years later this matter finally arrives to the plenary of the Assembly to, it is expected to start to be discussed and have, in the coming weeks, an epilogue that defends the public interest, restores respect for the law and makes these activities compatible with the right to mobility in the context of transport systems, public and private, existing in the municipalities and in the main metropolitan regions. Because the subject is related to the provision of the same type of provision of a public transport service on vehicles which must be licensed for a taxi service and also because the Government has submitted the proposal for a new legal regime for this activity, the Block proposals have two components: one first, a draft law, which is formally equivalent to the Government proposal and which defends a new legal regime for the transport of passengers on decharacterised motor vehicles; and one second, a draft resolution, which recommends the adoption of a set of measures that accelerate the modernization and transparency of the traditional taxi sector. The government, erroneously speaking to us, believes that the essential feature of the public transport service provided by those companies is the fact that it organizes itself from electronic platforms on unidentified motor vehicles as taxis. We don't think so. We believe that the government reverses the terms of the issue, that the so-called electronic platform is only a means of providing services, as is the case with a telephone station that works for taxis, but with a great difference, is that behind the so-called electronic platform, a company, which does not appear on mobility radars, but allows multinationals in the sector to organize a huge transfer of resources outside the country without having to pay, in the course of the sale of transport, a substantial amount of tax, which adds to the fact that they are exempt from compliance with the legislation in the country, either at the level of passenger transport, or at the level of labour and tax legislation. How? Remitting these obligations to a myriad of small service providers, whom they call partners, but who are completely crushed and sucked by a monopoly company that holds the software and which puts and disposes of conditions, prices and contracts, from then on with the professionals for whom this activity constitutes their main means of life. In fact, we are faced with a case of sending out the provision of a transport service, intermittent with an electronic platform, through which the provision of the transport service takes place. The market for these companies is that of the transport, more specifically, of the individual transport of passengers on request, in forms similar to taxis, as the courts have ruled. The reality proves this market coincidence: the individual passenger transport on request, which until 2014 was occupied exclusively by taxis and has since been disputed by Uber and Cabify, from uncharacterized vehicles. On the contrary, the proposals we stand for are aimed at correcting the political and legal transmission of the Government's proposal. For this reason, a fair legal framework is proposed, with regard to licensing of the activity, of vehicles and drivers, as well as the quota of vehicles in activity by each municipality, in terms similar to that already occurring with regular taxis, allowing as a general rule a maximum of 25 % of uncharacterised vehicles, compared to the number of existing taxis. Quotaation is a fundamental instrument for planning and regulating mobility and environmental protection policies. However, in the larger municipalities, the chambers have ceased to issue licences for a long time, and a parallel taxi licensing market has been created, usually with prices far higher than the authorities issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u7	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u8	I will now finish, Mr President. With this process, the rules of concentration, which the public tenders impose, are distorted. Therefore, something essential has to change to end the parallel market for the purchase and sale of taxi licenses. Finally, the generalization of the application of the georeference technology of the vehicle to taxis will certainly allow for greater transparency as regards the perception of the routes and their fares by taxi customers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u9	Mr Paulo Neves has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u10	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Social Democratic Party has been very attentive to this matter concerning urban mobility platforms. We have always been clear: the legislation that exists at this time is to be respected; however, we believe that it is inadequate legislation and that it must be quickly updated. We, PSD, are ready to contribute to that. For us, platforms are welcome and should be regulated. However, we have insisted on some principles that we do not abdicate. Of course, we consider that there is room for all, be taxi drivers, be the new platforms of urban mobility, which, in fact, can and should help each other. There are no absolute incompatibilities. The PSD is in favour of technological innovation, but it is also in favour of, of course, the legality and compatibility of all actors. We have done our homework: we have heard and received all the institutions that we consider to be the main subjects of this discussion, our opinions therefore have a huge technical support which makes them absolutely solid and valid for any legislative update. in this sense, we will present a proposal in the Assembly. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We do not accept that a new occupation, especially for thousands of young people working, directly or indirectly, for these platforms, is the victim of excessive hours and also low wages. We don't accept this happening! We are due to fair and regulated competition, through legislation that enables the proper functioning of platforms, with quality of service, that does not destroy the role of taxis, that must also be updated to new consumer trends, and that avoid unfair or rude competition. The PSD therefore advocates balanced legislation. A party like ours, the PSD, which when leading the government did everything — and managed — to bring Portugal to the Web Summit, is a party that looks at new information technologies as priorities for the development of the country. however, the proposal presented by the Government in this House does not satisfy us. We believe that it is a proposal that falls short of a legislative initiative that upholds the dignity of all those who work for and through platforms. It is also a proposal that deregulates the sector too much. The PSD defends common sense on this issue. however, allow me, Mr President: what comes from the Government, as is the case with this proposal, must of course be supported by the parties that support this government solution. And the political scenario in this House is clear: the coalition that supports the current government consists of four parties and none of them is the PSD. The PSD is not the mule of anyone, much less of a Socialist Party Government, who, by losing elections, set a solution to occupy the government. It is of course this coalition that must work when the government submits its own proposals. We naturally point out that, after all, ‘the cohesive and lasting coalition’ — I quote — does not work in decisive matters for national governance. We therefore advise the Government and its partners to support it. Mr President, in conclusion, we are a constructive party and we fulfil our parliamentary obligations. We have our ideas and positions on this matter and we will be very pleased to contribute to a legislative update. The PSD will present its proposals, where they will all be systematized, and hopes it will be useful. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u11	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and Mrs and Mrs. Members, the CFP reaffirms, in this debate, the fundamental principle which, from the outset, has been stressed on this matter: the law must be equal for all, no one can be above the law and it is not acceptable that there should be laws adopted in accordance with the interests of the economic power, by establishing a status of privilege for multinationals.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u14	In Portugal, passenger transport in light vehicles is carried out within the legal framework of the scheme known as « taxi ». Faced with the entry into Portugal of a multinational company, which has been operating illegally, in a clear and denouncing manner by unfair competition, precariousness, exploitation and crushing of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, what was necessary was to effectively combat this illegal competition and to work in defense of modernisation, improvement of the quality and adequacy of the rules in force for passenger transport. This was the priority rather than the option which is reflected in the legislative proposals now under discussion, which is, after all, to legalise unfair competition.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u15	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u16	Therefore, the CFP did not submit and do not present draft laws, but it presented concrete proposals on fundamental issues that urgently need to be resolved and clearly defined to address the problems that are left open in the proposed law that the Government submits. The CFP is proposing amendments to this bill, in order to establish that this activity cannot be carried out by mere communication but by licence. There's got to be both transport license and platforms. The training course for drivers cannot be discriminated against in relation to taxi drivers and therefore we propose that the provisions of the legal training regime for access to the taxi driver certificate should apply with appropriate adaptations. If there is justice to solve the problem, let it be applied to everyone. We propose that, with regard to the driver's employment contract, safeguard measures should be taken with regard to the accreditation and consideration of the working instruments. For example, in this sector, cars are often not owned by the operator, but are used and exploited under lease and leasing arrangements, which the Labour Code does not provide.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u17	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u18	We present clear quota rules concerning the rule we consider essential, that an operator cannot place as many cars as he wants, there must be fair competition, there must be clear rules for all and the same with regard to the issue of municipal regulations, which must provide for mechanisms for decharacterization and transfer to the TVDE quota. We are putting forward proposals for another central issue, which has to do with the tariff, which cannot be freely defined. The tariff cannot be put in an untransparent manner, as it is enshrined today, it is not acceptable this rule of dynamic tariffs, in which no one knows what he expects, for example, in London, has already meant 300 % increase in the tariff on a day when there was no metropolitan. This is unacceptable and the bill allows it to happen. It can't be that way, ladies. Members of the Government. We propose, in particular, that there be a mandatory location, both on the legal level and on the physical level.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u19	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u20	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I was saying, we propose that there should be a mandatory location, both in the legal and physical context, of the technological infrastructures which safeguard the capacity of the State authorities in Portugal to monitor not only tax, tax and billing issues but also the issue of the protection of personal data, which is very sensitive and which must be duly guarded in this process. We have a lot of work to do, we will have a debate ahead which will require the best solutions to be found, and the CFP is once again available to hold this debate seriously so that the final consequence of this legislative process is not to leave the problems to be solved in essential matters. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u21	Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u22	Mr. President, Mr. Minister for the Environment, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: We are going to have a lot of work on this subject in fact, but more work will be done by the Government and the Minister to convince their coalition partners, the parties that support the government, because this last week it seems more and more evident that there are strong and deep fractures in this coalition. [[Protests from BE, PCP and the Greens.]] In fact, this will be seen when we vote, that is, half of the initiatives contained in our low vote script to the committees without a vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u23	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u24	In other words, there seem to be parties there that support the government, but then they like to talk more to the bench than to the country, to resolve the interests of the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u25	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u26	Mr Minister, on the part of the CDS will have clarity, consistency and, in this matter, our full collaboration, but the choice of partners was VV. Ex.. Therefore, as the people say, "Tell me who you are, I will tell you, who you are!"
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u27	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u28	So, on this matter, let us be clear: we are not going to talk to any particular sector, we are not going to defend any particular business or anything else. We will defend very simple things, such as the right to install, freedom of initiative and the right of citizens to freedom of choice. For us, limit these rights only as a last resort. Mr President, we must put an end to the biscuit, which is indeed a reality, which makes no sense, in addition to harming these principles, and we have tougher demands for TVDEs, which I think is clear. what we would not like was that there were requirements for some and no demands for others.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u30	In other words, there must be a balance here and a reasonable sharing of demands in the defence of a rule of law, of course, but also of the freedom of initiative and of citizens. Minister, the platforms are not bad in themselves. In addition, the sector has commissioned a study, and the IMT (Instituto de Mobility et de Transportes ) has a study, which says that taxis that are connected to electronic platforms make more than 30 % of the service, have less than 29 % of the empty mileage and a higher profitability than the taxis that are outside these platforms. Therefore, they have advantages and virtualities. Therefore, we would like to work on this matter to find clear, simple and stable rules.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u32	For what? Of course, so that it can generate confidence in investors, so that there can be a sector that generates resources and that it can, in essence, protect innovation. But we must be careful, Mr Minister, and I remember one, with which I agree, and which was now said by Mr Bruno Dias, which is data protection. But I am going further: this relationship between electronic platforms and companies — and the Minister spoke in business to end the biscuit — generates, on our part, some doubts, of course, about how to avoid abuse of dominant position, about how to avoid, perhaps, economic dependence and restrictive practices of competition, and it seems to us that it is necessary. however, there are some subjects with which we agree, because we are not in favour of quota, we are in favour of licensing, quality and characteristic of the fleet. So here are some things that we must work on — and, as I say and repeat, to finish — to protect the public interest, the interest of consumers and, of course, the business. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u33	For an intervention, Mr Hugo Costa now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u34	Mr. President, Mr. Minister for the Environment, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : The Government is coming to this House today to present a proposal for a law in line with its Programme, with the aim of modernising the transport sector. Citizens' mobility has undergone a profound transformation in recent years and cities must contain mechanisms against the use of the car individually. The environment, quality of life and the economy thank you. To that end, we need more instruments, more resources, which bring new mobility solutions to the large urban centres, which help to combat the exclusion of the peripheries and promote access to new transport solutions. We think all the benches will agree with this statement. The draft law presented by the Government in the Assembly is on an innovative subject in the transport sector and has led to numerous discussions at European level, particularly in the application of innovation from information technologies in individual passenger transport. Moreover, public opinion has shown a generic acceptance of the existence of new mobility solutions through platforms, which leads us to conclude that there is, on the part of Portuguese society, the expectation of regulating these new mobility services. Parliament is aware of its role. If it is true that we will never deal with illegality, as demonstrated by the vote on an earlier bill on sanctions, we must not close the door to new forms of innovation. We believe that the traditional sector of taxis should be preserved by the public service it offers, but we do not forget that innovation is already there and that thousands of trips can be avoided by individual transport, by uncharacterised vehicles and by electronic platforms, especially in the most sought places. It is therefore important to find a regulatory framework for reality, a reality which often runs faster than law and legislation. This is a case where this happens. The current proposal is on the right track to safeguard workers' rights. It is a proposal that, by safeguarding workers' rights, honours the heritage of the Socialist Party and consumers, and still implements the necessary control and regulation mechanisms. With regard to future specialist work, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is available to contribute to improving the Government's proposal here, in dialogue with all parliamentary groups and actors in the sector. This is our obligation, we have the frontier to take our differences, to converge essentially and to bring tranquility to a sector where we must defend all actors, whether they are from the traditional sector, or not — workers, companies and especially consumers — as well as open the door to necessary innovation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u35	As the Bureau no longer registers Mr. Members, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr Minister for the Environment, Mr Pedro Matos Fernandes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: of the interventions I have heard, it seems clear to me that there is one way and our purpose is one: to serve people better with the certainty that there are mobility problems in cities. On the quota, I have to say two things: if there are quotas in taxis today, it is because taxis are a public service and, as such, we need to know how many of the benefits are granted to taxi services because they are a public service. And, with due respect, the Left Block, which agrees with us when it says that there is a parallel taxi licence market, by proposing a quota for TVDE is indirectly proposing the existence of a parallel market for TVDE, and with this we cannot agree. I address the Social Democratic Party to say that we can always do better and build better, but the rights of workers are absolutely safeguarded in the bill that we present, which actually ends with the biscuit and the direct relationship between the driver and the platform. That's it. That's it. It doesn't exist! We can always, of course, do better, but I don't see where we can get it right away. With regard to what moves us, I believe that we then have the possibility of working together, and I cannot believe, nor can I ever believe, that the party struggle can surpass the public interest,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u37	Believe me, believe me! They're your partners!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u38	...to the wishes of citizens and to improve urban mobility. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u39	The debate on Bill No 50 / XIII ( 2 ) is thus closed. ( a ), of Bill No 450 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and draft resolution No 724 / XIII ( 2. ( a). We move on to the discussion required by BE on the Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement between the European Union and Canada. To open the debate, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: CETA is an international free trade agreement between Canada and the European Union and has been negotiated on the back of peoples between 2009 and 2014 in total secrecy and without any involvement of society. It is therefore another example of how European powers continue to operate in total opacity and are horrified by informed and participatory debates. And the one who runs away from the debate, we have already learned, is because it is not defending the common good but, yes, the interest of some privileged ones. CETA is not just a common trade agreement, it is an international agreement that addresses almost all areas of activity, from trade to labour relations, from the environment to public health, from agriculture to data protection, through public services. No area stays outside. It is an agreement that calls into question fundamental advances in our country. For example, how many times has this House voted to ratify International Labour Organization ( ILO ) conventions? How many times did the parties represented here point to the benefits of these ratifications? For now all this could lose effectiveness, because Canada has not ratified the vast majority of ILO conventions. But contrary to what had been promised, CETA benefits Canada and provides coverage for this lack of protection of workers, especially in relation to collective bargaining. In addition, several existing studies show that this agreement will bring unemployment: more than 200 000 jobs lost in the European Union and wage inequalities will still be increased. in the environmental context, CETA is the open way for abuse and deregulation, lowering environmental requirements, disrespecting sustainable development and leaving the world even more fragile in the face of climate change. Let us look at the ridiculous: the chapter of the agreement on sustainable development has no binding commitment; the chapter on the environment accepts exceptions to compliance with international treaties to combat climate change; and the concept of investment covers the exploitation and extraction of resources such as oil or natural gas. Also in agriculture, CETA has no real protection of products of controlled designation of origin ( DOC ), since only 173 are protected from a total of 4523 DOC products in the European Union. On the other hand, it gives green light to the large agricultural industry to swallow the small and medium-sized farmers. The same is true in protecting the interests of large corporations of the transgenics. The European territory, well, has a degree of regulation and ban on the use of GMOs (genetically modified organisms) from the highest in the world, but Canada is on the opposite side. With CETA, it is the corporations that win the war, terraplanning the protection of consumers and public health, increasing the risk of diseases resulting from food consumption with hormones or GMOs. It's an unacceptable retreat. But the evils of this agreement don't stay here. CETA is a clear step back in the protection of public health: it clearly benefits the pharmaceutical industry and empowers the privatization of health services. It's another impulse to turn health into a business and not a right. Mr President, the complaints we make here are real. Just hear the Order of Doctors in Portugal, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs of the European Parliament, the Portuguese Federation of Associations of Pig growers, environmental experts and international law of the UN, the National Data Protection Commission. So many whose voice has been repeatedly ignored. We cannot shut up, nor ignore, the disaster that can mean the ratification of CETA. This is an agreement that can and must be rejected by Portugal! [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr President, these are anti-democratic processes such as the negotiation of this treaty that undermine the confidence of citizens and citizens. The whole process leads to the erosion of democracy, sovereignty and the European and national legal systems and the pinnacle of this attack on democracy and the decision-making capacity for the welfare of citizens is the chapter on investment. The proposal on the table has to do with the establishment of a private arbitral tribunal, which will decide on the disputes between investors and States, a private arbitral tribunal that will tell who is right. The conclusion of this proposal is obvious: investors and profit are protected, states and public interest are not. As simple and as creepy as this! This agreement doesn't want to know about people, it's written to protect only and only the profit of big corporations, and it won't be in our name. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr President, the presentation of CETA as a mixed agreement is only and only so that national parliaments cannot pronounce themselves on the most serious effects and it is to put the agreement into operation without even being ratified or discussed by States. This is another plea in the caxion of respect for the sovereignty of peoples and the rule of law. The path of CETA is a Europe that decides on the backs of citizens, dark and secret negotiations, the lack of democracy, the reduction of rights and the backwardness of civilization. It is a path to the past that we do not want for our future. For that, don't count on the Left Block! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u41	Mr Margarida Marques, Secretary of State for European Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I thank the renewed opportunity to discuss the merits and possible merits of the Global Economic Agreement, CETA, between the European Union and Canada, in this House, which has the final word on Portugal's link to this treaty. We must ask ourselves about the relevance of this Agreement for the European Union and Portugal. What is the reason for the Government to propose its approval? The immediate response points to the economic gains that CETA will certainly bring, starting with the annual savings in customs duties and procedures for companies and, in particular, for SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises). Portugal will be no exception in collecting these benefits; on the contrary, our trade position with Canada will be strengthened. However, it is a shortening of CETA and these aspects more easily measurable. Trade agreements are not a novelty, but few times in the past they will have been as important as they are now. Globalization is a phenomenon of our time that we cannot stave or ignore. Recognizing the many benefits that globalization has brought not invalidity that we are aware of the negative effects it can and has generated, and deregulation is one of them. I believe that none of us believe, even though there are also those who understand it, but not this government, that the rules that must frame and manage the problems of globalisation will arise by spontaneous generation. We must be political leaders to take the initiative to beat ourselves by these rules that ensure proper regulation of globalisation based on the social and environmental values of the European Union. Inaction will lead us to one of two scenarios: lack of rules or passive acceptance of rules, to which we do not contribute. Insulationist drifts, such as those that currently belong in international order, can prove not only fruitless as counterproductive. CETA is not a perfect agreement but it is certainly the benchmark for trade agreements, the most demanding ever negotiated by the parties. It is a treaty that recognizes that trade should promote sustainable development and binds Europeans and Canadians to the highest social and environmental standards. But this was only possible because the European Union has been struck by very clear red lines and has worked with one of its closest allies, which, moreover, welcomes a vast Portuguese community, a country that shares our values, whether in the workplace or in the fight against climate change. This made it possible to reach an ambitious agreement with positive innovations, such as the elimination of non-tariff barriers and the recognition of 143 European geographical indications, 20 of which Portuguese, thus contributing to the protection of national economic and cultural value and of Europe. I cannot, of course, speak of CETA's innovations without mentioning the ICS (investmentcourt system ), a system designed to improve the previous ISDS (investor-state dispute settlement ), which so many legitimately raised doubts from public opinions, despite the Member States of the European Union being the ones most resorting to this dispute resolution mechanism. There seems to be a general tendency to see this mechanism in the perspective of the foreign investor, forgetting the national investor's point of view. With CETA, all European investors in Canada will be treated equally, overcoming the current situation where only a few benefit from protection: the seven countries that have bilateral agreements with Canada. I also remember that the investor, in most cases where he resorts to ISDS, does not win the action. Against the limits of ISDS, I have no doubt that we can achieve a satisfactory mid-term solution. The model that is now proposed is far from the private justice matrix coming from and is closer to the public justice models we know in internal legal orders or in permanent international courts. We're not satisfied. It's a transitional solution. We will continue to work on this matter in a global perspective. Finally, both parties, the European Union and Canada, undertake to adopt a sound mechanism, a civil society forum which will meet at least once a year an inclusive and transparent dispute resolution mechanism relating to trade in labour or environmental matters involving governments, external experts, civil society and other independent bodies, as is the case with ILO (International Labour Organisation ). [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u43	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us start the first round of the debate. Mr António Costa Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: On 30 October, the European Union and Canada signed the Global Economic and Trade Agreement, which was approved by the European Parliament on 17 February 2017. This opens up a path for the Agreement to enter into force on a provisional basis as soon as it is ratified by Canada. The ECTA will be fully implemented when the parliaments of all Member States ratify the Agreement in accordance with their internal constitutional obligations. There is clear evidence that free trade agreements stimulate growth and job creation in Europe. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u45	The Agreement between the European Union and South Korea was also provisionally applied during its ratification process. On average, each additional fraction of EUR 1000 million of exports promotes 15 000 new jobs in the European Union, and this is a significant figure. What will CETA bring us? The Agreement will create new opportunities for European Union companies. The Agreement will save more than EUR 500 million per year to European Union companies currently paid in customs duties on goods exported to Canada. The Agreement will guarantee companies in the European Union unprecedented access to Canadian public contracts. The Agreement will benefit heavily from smaller companies, which have the least capacity to bear bureaucracy charges. The Agreement will create new opportunities for farmers and food producers, without failing to fully protect the sensitivities of the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u46	He never spoke so well!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u47	The openness of the European Union to certain products is limited and calibrated, being compensated by the opening of Canada, which satisfies important export interests of the European Union, including cheeses, wines, spirit drinks, fruit, vegetables and processed products, and by the protection of 143 high-quality European Union products, of which 20 are Portuguese products. in the general context, we do not have the size of France, but together with Spain, Italy and Greece, we will certainly fight for this podium. The 500 million consumers in the European Union will also benefit from CETA. The Agreement provides for a greater supply, while maintaining European standards, since only products and services that fully comply with all the EU's regulatory provisions can enter the European market. The Agreement will provide greater legal certainty in the services sector, better mobility for business workers and a framework that will allow recognition of professional qualifications. The current form of dispute resolution between investors and the State, which exists in many bilateral trade agreements negotiated by the governments of the European Union, has been replaced by a new and better system of investment courts, the mechanism will be transparent and not based on ad hoc courts. Member States shall continue to be able to organise public services in their own way. This and other questions have been clarified in an Interpretative Common Instrument, which will have binding force. in the background, what are the main criticisms that the left, in particular the radical left, and some anti-globalization groups do to CETA? They say it has not been negotiated in a transparent way, but this is not true. In fact, they are the same criticisms as the Left Block did here and they are the same criticisms as the PCP makes. Says the Left Block: « The CETA does not guarantee anything to the populations, but guarantees everything to the great capital! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” « We speak of an agreement negotiated on the back of the peoples », says the CFP. They say: 'The negotiations have been marked by a profound democratic deficit! The main objective of CETA is to make further progress in the liberalisation of trade and services! CETA is an instrument to lower social, labour, environmental and public health rights, to place the interests of multinationals above the sovereign rights of States! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[Protests from BE, PCP and the Greens.]] We've known this old conversation! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u48	We've known that old conversation! You are against everything that is the evolution of societies. To maintain and preserve the most ankylosed models, to limit any freedoms — that is what you understand. All that is shared by sovereignty to the left is loss of sovereignty. Whatever is the most advanced economy, to the left we will always be talking about loss of rights. in the background, the model of the left-wings of this Parliament is to guarantee the « proudly alone! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” I must point out that before the start of the negotiations the European Union and Canada decided to jointly carry out a study in 2007 to analyse and evaluate the benefits of a closer economic partnership. [[Protests by the Member of the BE Isabel Pires.]] The PSD believes in freer, more balanced, fairer societies that all have the same opportunities. A more open and transparent model will certainly be better for all. The Global Economic and Commercial Agreement, CETA, with the United States of Europe will allow us to deepen economic relations and also benefit the Portuguese economy. That's what we believe in. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u49	Mrs. Lara Martinho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to thank the Block on the Left for the scheduling of this debate on CETA — the third on this issue since the beginning of the Parliament — because it is indeed happening at a particularly timely time. A timely moment because, after eight years of negotiations, CETA was approved by the European Parliament last month, and can now provisionally enter into force in the field of exclusive competence of the European Union. This means, of course, the entry into force of the eliminations and tariff reductions with savings of EUR 500 million per year. A timely moment, because one of the major current political issues is precisely that of global economic integration, i.e. globalisation. The Socialist Party has a very clear view of globalisation and trade agreements. We are, of course, against a model of globalization without rules, nor social and environmental standards. We are, however, in favour of a model of global economic integration that is oriented in accordance with just rules, which redistributes the advantages of trade openness fairly and respects the highest social and environmental standards. Trade agreements negotiated by the European Union are an opportunity to regulate globalisation in the light of the European economic and social model. That is why CETA's approval is also of our national strategic interest. It is important to remember that Canada, in addition to being a strategic partner of the European Union since 1996 and an important ally on the international scene, is the most prosperous economy with which the European Union has negotiated a trade agreement and where levels of social, environmental and public health protection are similar to European standards. In addition, CETA introduces truly pioneering instruments and forecasts. In addition to the elimination of customs duties and non-tariff barriers and the inflexibility of labour and environmental rights, ensuring and maintaining, unequivocally, the rights of States to decide freely on their public policies, introduce a permanent investment tribunal with provisions guaranteeing impartiality in the appointment of judges and the balance of investors and States' rights and, in addition, recognises protected geographical indications, which is of great interest to us. For these reasons, we must not fail to recognize that CETA will be an instrument of growth and sustainable development for our country, while it will serve as a normative model in future agreements negotiated by the European Commission with the most diverse regions of the world. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the European Union is the largest trading bloc in the world. One in seven jobs in Europe is due to international trade. contrary to what critical voices say, it is because we are part of the European Union and because we are part of this trade bloc open to the global economy that we will have more opportunities for economic development and prosperity. Closing ourselves to the world is not the right answer, nor is it part of our country's vocation. It is also because we recognize the importance of our economy if we maintain this positive growth path, that our small and medium-sized enterprises must be supported in the conquest of new markets and that we have a duty to create conditions for their development, which we believe that CETA responds to the strategic interest of our country. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the protectionist rhetoric, which promises growth and employment, warming up the return to a glorious and prosperous past in which there was no globalisation is back to political today — I fear - I hear it in the new American administration, I fear - I hear it in several European countries and also in our country. But this rhetoric does not take into account the fact that trade is the driving force of the global economy and economic and social development, to facilitate the transfer of knowledge and new technologies, to promote integration between regions and global prosperity. So that, really, so and all these advantages are distributed fairly, we trust the opportunity of trade agreements, especially when they are negotiated with one of the world's most prosperous countries and with a high rate of human development and, above all, a tradition of respect for democratic values, as is the case with Canada. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party supports and welcomes the position of the Government, which the Secretary of State here once again came to defend. We therefore look forward to sending the motion for a resolution to Parliament's due consideration, and we are, as always, prepared to follow the process of entry into force with great interest. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u51	Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u52	Mr President, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members : It is important to clarify a few questions here. It is important to put aside the false arguments, to stop using the propaganda that has been used so far on the Agreement and to examine the Agreement itself, because the objective of this debate is to analyze exactly the content of the Agreement, which has not been done so far, say. I am going to dismantle some arguments that have been presented. On the potential for economic growth that this Agreement has, I must say that the European Commission's own estimates indicate a possible growth from 0, 08 % to 7 years. Therefore, there is not even immediate growth and there is no proof, even, that this growth is sustainable. With regard to the ICS mechanism, I must say that it was, not by chance, the most debated and the most altered in this whole process, and this happened for some reason, because it was the most doubtful thing. But it is important to look at what similar mechanisms meant, such as ISDS, where Canada, under ISDS, at the NAFTA (North American Free Trade Agreement), has been processed 39 times, and we also have to look at what many experts say. By now, speaking in democracy, it is indeed strange to say that this is one of the most open and transparent agreements. For almost 10 years, no one has heard of this agreement, civil society has not been heard and citizens have no knowledge based on what we are talking about,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u53	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u54	... and this is a huge failure and, in this sense, it is not possible to say that it is an open agreement. Secondly, the Left Block, in order to analyze the Agreement, was also to talk to those involved and the experts, such as the Order of Doctors, which I have already mentioned, but I will be able to mention the Union of the Magistrates of the Public Ministry, who have also published many studies and many analyses on the ICS mechanism. To say that all civil society is on board this great agreement, which is very ambitious, is not true, because, if we had gone to hear this same civil society and these organizations, we would know that this is not true. On the other hand, the benefits that have been pointed out so far are, in fact, mirages. For example, the assessment of CETA's sustainability impact on SMEs does not indicate any long-term positive effect; the European SME support network also says that global economic benefits will be minimal for SMEs themselves; on DOC products, as I said here, we are talking in a European total of 4 % of the products that are protected. So this is minimal! So continue to say and propaganda that this Agreement is good for the people, continue to say that this Agreement protects the regulations that exist, it is not true. Mrs. Members, read the Agreement and will realize that, in each chapter, there is an exception point and these exceptions allow everything to be done on behalf of investments and profit. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u55	That is what we are talking about, and that is what we should be discussing here and not continuing to propagate false arguments about the Agreement. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u56	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u57	Mr President, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: I think that is at least the third time at this Legislative Session we are discussing this trade agreement between the European Union and Canada here in plenary. This is positive, even very positive, because these debates show that in Portugal, as in the European Union, there are voices of populists, protectionists, voices that are against free trade, voices that are against globalisation, voices that are against European integration, voices that are against the market economy and that are still very alive and curiously, in Portugal, even deserve the protection and affection of the Portuguese Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u58	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u59	in this debate, we always see this when the Left Block speaks and I am sure that, when the Communist Party speaks next, we will see again. In fact, it is interesting to note that yesterday the Minister for Foreign Affairs said that this year could be the year of the end of the populism trend in Europe. He agrees that the Minister for Foreign Affairs should look at the benches in front of me to remember that populists are here and that, curiously, it is the Government of the Socialist Party that is caressing for these same populisms. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[BE's protests.]] It seems to me, therefore, that this news of the death of populism is, like others, manifestly being exaggerated. The Socialist Party which today makes proclamations about the European Union is exactly the same Socialist Party which, for internal purposes, has an agreement with those who represent the worst of isolationism and protectionism at European level. For that reason, it is enough to see who the Left Block and the Communist Party voted in the European Parliament and how they voted on this matter. They voted against, with Mrs Le Pen and the French extremists; they voted against, with the Dutch extremists of the PVV, who said they were diabolical;...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u60	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u61	... voted against, with populist movements, such as the 5 Stars Movement, of Beppe Grillo, in Italy, or as the Podemo, in Spain, but also voted against, with the German nationalists and with the UKIP of Mr Farage. These are your fellow voters in the European Parliament. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u62	It is, in fact, curious to realize that the Left Block often tells us that it was necessary to follow the voices of prudence. We know very well who the voices of prudence are. The voices of prudence are extremist voices either to the extreme right, or to the extreme left that the Communist Party and the Left Block continue to follow. [[BE's protests.]] That is why, Madam Secretary of State, I would like to quote a popular saying to her: « Tell me who you are with, I will tell you-CL-who you are». in this case, the Socialist Party walks hand in hand with those who, outside, represent the worst that exists from the point of view of protectionism and isolationism. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u63	Madam Secretary of State, for us this debate is not about ideology, it is a debate on economics. What we really want to know is what the Portuguese Government is doing in order to help the economic sectors that, with this Agreement, can see their business opportunities grow, but also realize — because we are not euphoric about this matter — what the Portuguese Government is doing to protect economic sectors that can be harmed by this Agreement,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u64	Really? Oh, my God! Don't say anything like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u65	... as, for example, the agro-industry sector and the agricultural sectors that may have difficulties.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u66	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u67	Finally, Mr President, with a question addressed to the Secretary of State, because there is an issue which I honestly do not understand. This government, which has been in office for more than a year, has never, never led, a business mission to Canada. We know that, in these matters, arriving first, often, means having business opportunities. The previous government, with Mr. Vice-First Minister, with Mrs. Minister of Agriculture, went to Canada and tried to establish a set of bridges, but the fact is that this government says that only by the end of the year will it possibly consider doing a business mission to Canada.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u68	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u69	Do you understand, Madam Secretary of State, the loss that this means for many and many companies? Do you agree with that? Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u70	Mr Carla Cruz of the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is curious that the CDS-PP says this is a debate that is not ideological but about economics, but not a word about economic aspects.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u72	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u73	In fact, the Agreement was a marvel, but after all it said it was a threat.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u74	Let's hear it first!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u75	As for the PSD, we knew that it always aligns with the onset of attacks on the rights of workers and peoples. That is the alignment of PSD and CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u76	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u77	Mrs. Members of the Government, the CFP rejects the nature, objectives and purposes of the trade treaty between the European Union and Canada, rejects the provisional entry of CETA and considers that the Agreement must be subject to the process of ratification by the States, rejected by this Assembly, and therefore we already present an initiative in this regard. After several years of negotiations—yes, Mr. PSD members, CDS members, but also PS — under secrecy...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u78	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u79	... and brought to the attention of the peoples, translating the disrespect for democracy and sovereignty of States by the European Union and Canada, signed the CETA in October. on 15 February, the European Parliament adopted the Agreement by a majority, despite strong protests. The European Commission now wants the Agreement to enter into force in part and on a provisional basis, i.e. without the ratification of national parliaments. The European Commission claims that only the part which corresponds to the so-called ‘exclusive powers of the EU’ will enter into force and not the part of the shared powers of the States. The CFP categorically rejects this purpose, insofar as it would constitute another unacceptable disregard for the sovereignty of States. The Agreement, to be ratified, will have a strong impact on our country, particularly in important productive sectors. More: the Agreement aims to 'clear' the technical and regulatory barriers by means of the so-called'regulation cooperation', the aim of which is to force legislative harmonisation, i.e. to lower the social, labour, environmental and also sanitary matters. Moreover, the Agreement provides for the establishment of a mechanism and the imposition of standards in accordance with transnational interests, thus placing the profits above the sovereignty of States and the well-being of workers and peoples. In this debate, it is important to understand how the Government intends to preserve national interests, defend national production, social and labour rights, public services, in response to this Agreement. It is important to know how the Government will defend products of protected designation of origin, of protected geographical indication, existing in Portugal and which have not been covered by the Agreement. Reiterating the rejection of this and other free trade agreements, as well as the provisional entry of CETA, we completely depart from the position taken by the Portuguese Government of accepting this imposition of the European Commission. And, yes, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u80	Attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u81	I will finish, Mr. President. And, yes, Mrs. Members, we are not for isolationism and we are fighting for mutually advantageous cooperation agreements, which safeguard, yes, national sovereignty, which respond to the needs and interests of peoples, which defend and promote social, labour and democratic rights and the right to economic and social development. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u82	Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u83	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by telling the Secretary of State for European Affairs that we have different readings about the advantages of CETA for our country. And it is not just because it is a hidden, almost secret agreement that has been negotiated in the clandestine, far from the eyes of the citizens and the back of the Europeans. It is, above all, because of what this secrecy represents. This is because the lack of transparency in the negotiating process shows us that this Agreement is not good for the citizens, because if it were, there was no need to hide. It hides because it's bad—it seems obvious to me. Therefore, it is not difficult to see that what is intended with CETA is to crystallize economic models which are not compatible with social progress and with the sustainable development of peoples. What matters is not to disturb the profit expectations of multinationals, at any cost. Moreover, it will not be surprising that in the future our country may be taken to court for having decided to increase the national minimum wage, because any multinational believes that this measure has disrupted its expected profit. And it will not be in the courts of the state but in arbitral courts, as multinationals very much like it. Unfortunately, we are not talking about fiction, we are talking about facts that have already occurred with similar agreements. in the same way, it will not be fiction if the Portuguese Government decides to take anti-smoking measures, for example, and if a multinational tobacco company comes to claim that this measure interfered with its expected profit and therefore seeks judicial action against the Portuguese State demanding millions, as happened with the State of Uruguay or Australia. Therefore, CETA only seeks to respond to the requirements of multinationals, either through the removal of regulatory barriers, either by reducing standards of demand and regulation in areas such as agriculture or by abolishing restrictions on genetically modified organisms, creating new markets such as the water market or health market and delivering public services to the voracious appetite of multinationals. What is intended is more liberalisation and less social protection. What we see is that economic power is preparing itself to finally give orders to political power, because that is what this is about. Mr Secretary of State, the European Parliament approved CETA, under strong protests throughout Europe. We are now following their ratification procedures, but the European Commission intends to bring into force a significant part of the Agreement, even before the Member States' parliaments decide on its ratification. This is an unprecedented thing, from the point of view of international treaties. The Treaty shall enter into force before the ratification procedures of the Member States. Now this seems to us to be absolutely unacceptable and unbelievable. I was interested to know what the Portuguese Government's position was in this European Commission, but I was also interested to know what will happen to matters that will enter into force before the ratification procedures if the Agreement does not then enter into force because a State has decided to refuse its ratification, as I think the Portuguese Parliament should do. What will happen to those matters which will now provisionally enter into force if a State does not then ratify the Agreement, so if the same does not enter into force? By the way, what is the court responsible for disputes which are to be settled before the final entry into force of the treaty? Since it will enter partly into force, it was interested to know, before the entry into force, which is the competent court in the event of disputes. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u84	To close the first round, you have the floor of the Secretary of State for European Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u85	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the questions that have been raised. We are discussing a trade treaty, CETA. It is a treaty that actually represents a new generation of trade treaties. We are not discussing previous generations of trade treaties. I must say that our doubt, the doubt of the government and of many governments and of the European Union is whether we are able to achieve the standards we have achieved with the treaty with Canada in relation to the trade treaties currently under negotiation. That's the big challenge. For example, we are talking about the provisional entry into force of the treaty. I must say that it is provided for in the Treaties — and it has legal basis — for the provisional entry into force of a trade agreement and it is on that basis that this Agreement may provisionally enter into force. But we need to clarify very well what comes into force, when we talk about the provisional entry into force, which is planned for April, if the ratification process on the side of Canada is completed. Firstly, this treaty has three components: one, exclusive competence of the European Union; another, shared competence; and another, exclusive competence of the Member States. What comes into force is the exclusive competence of the European Union. But it was not the European Union, it was not the European Commission that decided. It was the Council, where democratically appointed ministers are appointed by the governments of the Member States of the European Union and by the European Parliament. Therefore, there is a democratic decision-making process and not an authoritarian decision-making process, and the European Parliament has thus understood it. This agreement was ratified by the European Parliament, with 403 votes in favour of ratification. It is important to take this into account when it comes to the entry into force on a provisional basis. A second aspect which I would like to react is the question of debate, or not debate, and of secrecy in the process. This treaty began to be negotiated in 2009. From 2009 to today, great progress has been made both on the side of offers, on the one hand and on the political path, within the framework of the negotiation itself. In 2009 it was clear that the dispute resolution process was the ISDS. That is not the system that will be in force with CETA, the system that will be in force is the ICS. We have passed from an arbitrary court system to a case, although in the case of the tobacco industry it has not been exactly the result that the honourable Member has referred to, but I repeat, we have moved from the court to a system which has permanent judges, judges with the requirement of professional competences and a code of conduct as did not exist before. I think it is very important to underline this process. And why? Because this process was not in origin in 2009. We have come to this process, which is different from the private system of justice, because European public opinions have so demanded. In fact, it was the European public opinion that required the modification of this dispute resolution system. However, if European public opinion had the ability to propose to the European institutions the modification of a system that was an acquired system at origin was because they participated in the debate, they presented proposals and had the opportunity to raise awareness and convince the European institutions and national governments to change the dispute resolution system. A third question is qualifications and cooperation on social and environmental rights. I would like to say this: the right to regulate and maintain public services and the capacity of political initiative by governments remained completely untouchable. The audiovisual sector and public services for education, health, social services and sanitation are outside the Agreement. The European Union and Canada agree not to reduce or cease to apply environmental or labour protection measures to attract trade or investment and propose to improve this protection in the future. I am referring to Chapter 22, more specifically Article 22.3. As Mrs. Isabel Pires said, we should know exactly what we are talking about. But if we move to Chapter 23, to Article 23.3, we have a direct answer to questions relating to labour rights. The Parties agree to ratify and implement the main ILO conventions in such areas as: equal pay, social consultation, discrimination in employment. It is worth noting here that Canada has already ratified another ILO convention, which had not ratified before and which is related to the minimum age for work. If we can talk about labour rights, what we have here is an instrument that allows us not only to maintain labour rights but also to push towards ratifying ILO conventions. Each State has its mechanism to ratify ILO conventions and this Agreement will not build up any capacity either to national governments or to Parliaments — this Parliament and this Government will continue to have the capacity to ratify ILO conventions — as clearly stipulated in the Treaty. with regard to investment, this is an important issue, but once again it is necessary to look at exactly what the treaty says. And the ECTA Treaty, in Article 8.9 thereof, explicitly states: « For the purposes of this Chapter,... » — which is the chapter « Investment » — «... the Parties reiterate the right to regulate in their territories to achieve legitimate political objectives, in areas such as public health protection, safety, the environment, public morals, social protection and consumer protection or the promotion and protection of cultural diversity; ». What I just read is not an interpretation of the treaty, it is the text of the treaty. And that's what we're talking about, because it's this CETA, this trade treaty we're talking about. Mr Pedro Mota Soares said — and I fully support your statement — that this debate is not just a debate on the economy. I can't support you anymore! This debate is political, it is a debate on politics, it is a debate on rights, it is a debate on regulation of globalisation. That is what we need to take into account, because it is the CETA and the other trade treaties that enable us to act in the context of globalisation. If we all refuse wild globalization and we understand that it has to be regulated, it is through these instruments that we have the capacity to regulate it. And when we confirm social rights, environmental rights, we realize that we can have trade with Canada without having the concern that Europe's social, environmental and public health rights, which are the world's highest standards, are not respected across the Atlantic in Canada.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u86	Attention to time, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u87	I shall finish, Mr President, but if I may, I would just like to answer a question which is of interest to the national economy, which is the issue of agricultural products. It is very important to note that this Treaty provides for import quotas for agricultural products, such as pigmeat and beef, and is of the few areas where quotas exist. under these quotas, the rules that apply are those of the Treaty; in so far as these quotas are exceeded, what applies are the current tariff rules, which means that this treaty will not disturb the European market in this area, which is an area that clearly affects or could affect the national economy. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u88	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the second round. First of all, Mr Manuel Rodrigues, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The Global Economic and Trade Agreement between the European Union and Canada represents another milestone in opening up the European Union abroad and reinforces mainly what is the geo-strategic centrality of Portugal on the Atlantic axis. I believe it is a consolidated vision among all in this House. But CETA is more than a trade agreement. CETA is an investment agreement that will enable us to leverage more investment, growth and employment for Portugal. I would like to point out three reasons that make this Agreement a particularly relevant agreement for our country. First, today, in Europe and in the world, we live a period of great uncertainty. The answer to periods of greater uncertainty is not isolation, but multilateralism. Neither we as Europeans nor Canada have given up our transatlantic relationship and this agreement contributes precisely to strengthening the transatlantic axis with Canada, creating conditions of greater security and predictability in trade and investment relations. Second aspect: why Canada? Canada is even the ideal partner for us to strengthen this transatlantic relationship and I believe that here in this House we will all agree. And why? Because Canada shares with Europe the European social model and the social state, which we all value so much, but also because Canada has strict rules that promote the protection of labour rights and environmental rights. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] Thirdly, it is very important to deepen economic relations, because they are important for both Canada and Portugal, but also because we have a very relevant Portuguese community in Canada. But, then, in a pragmatic and concrete way, what benefits does this agreement really bring to Portugal? Does it really bring benefits to Portugal? How can we measure them? Does it even benefit small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs)? in a concrete and objective way, let us analyze some ratios. First: how can we measure the level of benefits for a country in an agreement with this nature? First indicator: commercial balance. It was very difficult to benefit greatly from this Agreement if Portugal had a large trade deficit with Canada. Now, Portugal has one of the largest trade balances with Canada in terms of our trading partners. The level of Portuguese exports to Canada is four times higher than the level of imports and that is why this Agreement will translate into a greater growth impact in Portugal than in Europe. The second question that we ask is this: then, what about small and medium-sized enterprises? Is this really an agreement that values small and medium-sized enterprises? And how can we think about it? So let's look at the level of companies — and I ask for your tolerance, Mr President — and let's see which companies export to Canada.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u90	Small businesses don't need tolerance, they need support!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u91	Now, we have 1224 national companies exporting to Canada. How many are small and medium-sized enterprises? We could assume that it is a minority, but not : of the 1224 national companies exporting to Canada, 1089, i.e. 89 %, are SMEs. Therefore, in this particular case, I am sure that all of us in this House agree that, for these 1089 companies, it is essential to let practically stop paying customs duties. Finally, with the tolerance of Mr President, I will say the following: the PSD has always defended the openness of the European Union abroad. And this agreement, in particular, brings concrete, tangible and objective benefits, both at the level of small and medium-sized enterprises and at the level of the balance of our trade balance and the growth potential of our economy. So, we understand you're gathering...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u92	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u93	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I was saying, we believe that this Agreement establishes a new basis for sustainability and balance in trade and investment relations. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u94	Mr Carlos Pereira, from the PS, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by saying, very clearly, that the PS did not change one millimeter of its intervention matrix in international trade. We continue to find what we found, that is, we continue to consider that free trade promotes employment and wealth. But we also continue to believe, as we previously thought, that the Socialist Party — in this case the Government of the Socialist Party — should value the agreements that promote and guarantee the rights of each State, whether the labour rights, whether social rights or environmental rights, which have already been mentioned here. in this perspective, I would like to refer to three levels of analysis in this debate which I think is important, the first of which has to do with the context in which we are discussing this Agreement. And the context seems very relevant to me. We have discussed in this Parliament over the past few months an important aspect for a small, fragile and external economy, as is the case with the Portuguese economy, which is the importance of external demand. It has, in fact, been something that has greatly encouraged all the benches of this House. And the importance of external demand is obviously related to the importance of exports, which this Agreement closes and promotes. Therefore, it seems to me relevant and consensual among all the banks that the more we do for international trade, the more we do to ensure that our exports have the easier way we make sure that our external demand grows and the more we ensure that GDP (gross domestic product) grows with external demand and not with domestic demand, in a country where domestic consumption is still 60% of GDP. The second level of intervention in this context has to do with the observation that we have also made in this Parliament at all levels of what has been the growth of isolated populism in Europe and outside Europe, particularly in North America. This has been the subject of criticism in this House itself. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Therefore, it seems that it should also be consensual that a discussion on an agreement of this nature, which goes against precisely this isolationism, against this populism that isolates populations, goods and services, as is the case with this CETA, seems obviously a positive fact that should encourage all benches. Another aspect that I cannot but underline has to do with the issue of globalisation and also with the deepening of technology which, as we all understand, promotes market deregulation. However, this deregulation of the markets that occur usually has a more negative influence on the weaker countries in countries that have less capacity to defend themselves from this type of matter. And, as the Secretary of State has already said, we are weaker alone and we cannot combat that same deregulation of globalisation. Therefore, in fact, the best way in this multilateral framework is to help protect the country, protect its citizens, as this Agreement guarantees and closes. Finally, another aspect which seems very important to me is, of course, that of the benefits of this Agreement, which are of various levels, the first being, of course, the economics, as has already been clarified here. Within the economic benefits, I would like to highlight the increase of 23 % of trade between the European Union and Canada and we must not forget, as has already been mentioned here.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u96	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u97	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, we cannot forget, as has already been mentioned here, that our positive trade balance will have substantial gains with this greater openness to the Canadian market and the use we can make of it. A second aspect which is assured is, as I said at the beginning of the intervention, the 'contribution' of labour and social rights which this Agreement closes. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u98	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u99	Mr President, Mrs Secretary of State for European Affairs, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: Mr Pedro Mota Soares made an interesting exercise in the first intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u100	You'll hear another one, then!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u101	He made a simplification of a popular saying, saying something like 'Tell me who you vote with, I will tell you who you are'.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u102	Tell me what you're saying, I'll-I'll-I'll tell you who you are!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u103	Beyond the manicated vision of democracy that presents this claim, I must tell you that, on several occasions, the Left Block voted along with the CDS and the CDS along with the Left Block and that does not make us equal, nor do we get contaminated by each other in our political positions. But I will be more demanding than the honourable Member in the way he has presented in this Parliament the European relations of the various parties and I will take to the letter the popular saying: 'Tell me who you are, I will tell you who you are. Do not keep on seeking. ” I therefore ask you whether the CDS, for being part of the same political group in the European Parliament, which, for example, Euro MPs of the party that is in power in Hungary, has exactly the same political profile as these Euro MPs. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u104	It is because, if so, I would like you to tell me if you could call the CDS xenophobic because the CDS Members are sitting next to the ruling party Members in Hungary, who wants to put migrants in containers and treat them without respect for human rights. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Or, then, tell me if I can accuse the CDS of not respecting the rule of law because that is not what is respected in Hungary by the same party that is sitting next to the CDS in the European Parliament. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u105	Or also tell me whether I can accuse the CDS of not respecting freedom of the press, because that is the charge that European bodies make to the party which is in power in Hungary and who sits next to the CDS in the European Parliament. Or even if I can accuse the CDS of being authoritarian, because that is the accusation, extended in the European courts, to the party which is in power in Hungary and who sits next to Mr Nuno Melo, of the CDS, in the European Parliament. Is that how you look at international policy? If so, we now learn how the CDS is also positioned in the Portuguese Parliament and how it outlines these political positions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u107	Mr President, what I just did was not a defense of honor, because it only hurts our honor that we let the fair have to have some elevation to do so. Mr President, I would ask you only one minute to respond to the content of the debate, which is important. Mr Pedro Mota Soares and also the PSD Members did not want to answer about CETA. They don't know, they don't read it, or worse than everything, they don't want to know it, and that's more serious. They used terms as « extremists », to speak of those who did not agree with the treaty. I recall what was said at the opening of this debate, because we talked to civil society, we heard who wanted to talk to us. The National Data Protection Commission is against the Agreement; the Order of the Doctors is against the Agreement; the Trade Union of the Portuguese Judges is against the Agreement; the Union of the Magistrates of the Public Prosecutors is against the Agreement!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u108	It's fascism! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u109	All these « extremists », accused of such a thing by the CDS, are against the Agreement. More: Deco is against the Agreement; Quercus is against the Agreement and ILO (International Labour Organisation) has already said that this Agreement will land the positions agreed by the Portuguese Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u110	They must all be totalitarian! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u111	If these are against the Agreement, the extremists, the totalitarians, then we see the subservience of the PSD and the CDS to the European bodies. We already knew everything was accepted over four years. We didn't expect it to be different now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u112	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u113	Mr. Secretary of State...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u114	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u115	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, what we do not accept is that you can tell us what you said and accept that we consider it normal. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] It is true that the requirements in Europe in relation to a set of matters, from labour rights, environmental rights, collective bargaining, respect for data protection, are much greater than in other parts of the world, including Canada.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u116	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u117	What we do not accept is that this is exactly why we make an agreement with Canada, which says that everything is required equally, but then in each of the chapters I repeat, in each one, put a lever saying that after all everything can be by the rules of Canada, which are much less demanding than those of the European Union. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u118	Well, that's a back-up, and that back-up we don't accept! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u119	Mr Pedro Mota Soares of the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: How useful was this intervention of the Left Block. We realize that the Left Block is very uncomfortable when we denounce here who the Left Block votes with in Brussels.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u121	The problem is that you don't mind who you vote for!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u122	But, Mr. Deputies, you're going to be more uncomfortable now. You know why? I will not only tell you who you voted with, I will read a series of quotations from the debates that took place on CETA. He said a member of the Dutch extreme right: « CETA is a step towards poverty and dictatorship,... »...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u123	What about Hungary? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u124	......... the dictatorship of multinationals and the poverty of unemployment. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u125	Listen, listen, it's good for you!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u126	This far-right Euro MP sitting next to the Left Block says exactly the same thing the Left Block says in this Parliament. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u127	No, no. It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u128	But, Mr President, let me read you another quote. [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u129	The honourable Member says what comes to your mind!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u130	As in the European Parliament, they do not leave and do not like people to talk. Let me read a quote from UKIP, the extreme right in England : « The treaty has been negotiated at the closed door ». It could be a statement by Mrs Catarina Martins of the Left Block, but no, it was a statement by the UKIP leader, who with you voted against the CETA. Mrs Le Pen said: "It is important that each country regain its sovereignty and determine its own future. Do not keep on seeking. ” I could be Mrs. Catarina Martins saying this, but no, it was Mrs. Le Pen. These are your colleagues, fellow roadmen, in Brussels,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u131	Have shame! Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u132	... that they vote as you vote and say exactly the same things as you say here. [[BE's protests.]] You don't like to be denounced, but here's the CDS to report you on your populism,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u133	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u134	...to your isolationism,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u135	Aldrabice!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u136	... the fight against an open market, a market economy. They always count on the CDS to denounce what the Left Block does! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[BE's protests.]] In fact, it is amazing that the Left Block and the Communist Party have never voted in favour of a free trade agreement. Tell me, what is the free trade agreement that you support?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u137	North Korea!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u138	If even with Canada, which has levels of social protection, has levels of labour protection, has levels of environmental protection of European standards, you vote, with whom can you vote? Look at the map. Portugal, which is a peripheral country within the framework of the European Union, certainly has to win in the Atlantic framework because it gains centrality. That is exactly why, for us, this debate is not ideological,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u139	Don't! Is that what
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u140	...is not a debate on globalisation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u141	It's a debate of lies!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u142	... it is a debate to understand, effectively, from the point of view of the Portuguese economy, what we can win and what we can lose, because there are certainly risks in this matter. [[BE's protests.]] The Secretary of State has answered to me recently — and I thank her for her reply — regarding a sector which concerns us, which is the agricultural sector, of agro-industry. But, Madam Secretary of State, did not answer me to another matter, which is as important as this: what is being done at this time by the Portuguese Government to help companies in the textile sector, pharmaceutical sector, service sectors, mill sectors, metalmechanics, which can win many market shares in Canada, but which certainly need a boost? The internationalisation of the Portuguese economy is also due to the political capacity of the government, and that is what we do not see. Madam Secretary of State, I know that the former Government has gone to Canada more than once — the Deputy Prime Minister, the Minister of Agriculture — to work on economic partnerships. When we asked the question to the government, the same said that only there by the end of the year was that I would start thinking about going to Canada, leading a business mission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u143	Attention to time, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u144	I'm done now, Mr. President. You understand the Secretary of State that this is losing business opportunities, which is a luxury that Portugal does not have. I ask you once again when the government will finally lead a business mission to Canada. I thank you for your tolerance, Mr President. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u145	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u146	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u147	Now, yes, to defend the honor of the bench, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u148	Can you explain the grounds, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u149	Mr President, Mr. Pedro Mota Soares made a statement that is a lie and I wanted to defend the honor of my bench for that lie stated by Mr. Pedro Mota Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u150	Mr President, I do not deny it, but I would ask you to explain what the statement was.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u151	Mr President, Mr. Pedro Mota Soares' accusation that the Left Block sits next to Members of the extreme right is false.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u152	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u153	There's an attempt to circumvent reality...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u154	Mr President, I have not yet given you the floor to defend honor. What I asked you to do was, in the appeal to the Bureau, to substantiate your request. It is therefore in relation to this statement by Mr Pedro Mota Soares. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u155	Mr President, as a regimentist who is, you know, in the first reply I gave to the Bureau, I justified my request for honour. Therefore, the announcement of the Bureau is not a condescension, it is respect for the rights of the parliamentary bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u156	I did not say otherwise, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u157	So what we want is to defend the honor of the bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u158	Mr President, it is not worth the honourable Member to suspect that the Bureau will not give you the floor. I just asked you to explain the basis for the request to defend honour and I believe that you have already done so. So now my duty is to give you the word to defend the honor of your bench, as you asked. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u159	Mr President, I have already done so, as I said in my first call to the Bureau, as the Rules of Procedure require.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u160	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Pedro Mota Soares, accused that this bench sits in the European Parliament next to an extremely right-wing Member. It's a lie. It's a lie. [[CDS-PP protests.]] ... and of two, one : or Mr. Deputies has fled his mouth to lie and assumes that he has been incorrect in his statement, or deliberately lied, and there it is already clearer what the real agenda of the CDS is. [[CDS-PP protests.]] However, it did not respond to how the CDS, that is to say, sits in the European Parliament in the same parliamentary group as the elements of the party of Viktor Orbán, Hungary,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u162	That's true. It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u163	... who are accused of xenophobia, of not respecting the rule of law, of not respecting freedom of the press, of not respecting fundamental rights. There, yes, the CDS, cheerful and apparently uncritical, sits next to those supporters of Viktor Orbán. Mr President, of two: either you tried to create a different fact to ignore the responsibility you have in choosing seats in the European Parliament and to profile this parliamentary group with extremists from the far right of Europe, xenophobics, or then you have to say clearly that you lied to Parliament and portray that lie. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u164	Mr Pedro Mota Soares, would you like to explain?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u165	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u166	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u167	Mr President, I think Mr Pedro Filipe Soares' speech speaks for himself. [[Protests by BE Mésos Ferreira.]] I repeat that he said:...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u168	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u169	... in the European Parliament, the Left Block and now also the Portuguese Communist Party voted alongside parties such as the party of the Dutch extreme right, PVV ; they voted alongside Mrs Le Pen of the French extreme right;...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u170	That's not what I said a short time ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u171	... they voted next to the German extreme right; they voted next to the Spanish extreme left;... [[BE's protests.]] ... they voted next to all these people. And they didn't vote side by side for different arguments, they voted side by side for exactly the same arguments...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u172	We realize there's no honor in the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u173	It's extremism without shame of lying!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u174	... exactly with the same speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u175	Assume you lied!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u176	That's exactly why Mr. Deputy is so extremist, populist and isolationist,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u177	There's no honor on the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u178	...as all these extremes that exist in Europe, either on the left or on the right. The honourable Member is exactly the same as those!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u179	Stand back from the lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u180	But, Mr President, I am glad that you have allowed me to answer to a question which I had not actually been able to talk about, because I had no time, which is that of Hungary. Mr President, I would like to remind you that last week, not only in this Parliament, we voted for a vote condemning...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u181	You assume you're extremist!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u182	... for example, a decision by the Hungarian Parliament against migrants currently in that country...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u183	Stand back from the lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u184	... but also that your colleagues in the Socialist Party, alongside whom you feel, have made this decision possible in this Parliament. [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] So if you want to accuse someone of being extremist, you also start looking at your colleagues in the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u185	Assume you lied!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u186	Mr President, I am sorry, but I have to ask you one question: do you feel the legitimacy of condemning a political party for criticizing, for oppressing press freedom, after what your colleagues in the Podemos are doing in Spain?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u187	Stand back! Assume you lied!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u188	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u189	After what your colleagues, who are the example for you, are you doing in Spain? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u190	There's no honor on the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u191	Mr President, I am sorry, but at least I should have a little bit of shame in my face! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u192	There's no honor on the CDS! Stand back from the lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u193	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us resume the debate. Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : On Catholicism, which we have just heard from Mr Pedro Mota Soares, we just want to say that the past of the PCP, of fighting the extreme right and fascism, does not allow the CDS, party of the offshore, without any past of fighting fascism or neofascism, to give lessons of democracy to whoever it is, much less the Portuguese Communist Party! [[PCP applause.]] Having said this, the CFP has come to alert and denounce the implications and threats of these true treaties of multinationals that directly deal with the legal systems, the well-being and the development of peoples. This agreement is an example of this, with all the consequences for States such as Portugal, particularly industrial and agricultural production, food security, labour law. These are objective questions that we would like to ask: what guarantees can the Government give in relation to matters that leave the threats to the production and marketing of regional products completely open? With regard to threats to small and medium-sized agriculture, when the ECTA only recognises, except for error, a hundred and a half of the more than 2000 existing geographical designations, is that acceptable to the Government? It's just that for the PCP it's not! As regards the import of pig and bovine meat, what is the objective of the estimate of the increase in imports from the current table made possible by this Agreement? the level of food safety, particularly as regards genetically modified organisms, growth factors or hormones, the differences between Canada and the European Union are enormous. in the Agreement it is not explicit who will and how the control of the tonnes of beef will be carried out which will enter the various countries of the European Union. Doesn't this raise concerns for the government? CETA aims to promote the privatization of public services, blocking the possibility of such services returning to the public sphere, if a State decides sovereignly that certain services should be provided and managed in a public and universal manner.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u195	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u196	In other words, public services that have already been privatized or operate in a concessional logic are covered by CETA and at the disposal of transnationals and their interests. Does the government take these political options and respond to them? Does the Government accept that there are no mechanisms in this Agreement to defend workers' rights, to prevent lower levels of protection, to avoid more than foreseeable dumping in labour matters? The Secretary of State said that Canada has now ratified an ILO convention. But were they not close to 190 ILO conventions to be ratified in Canada, including regarding collective bargaining?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u197	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u198	Does this resolve the concerns raised in this area? Does the Government support this denial of the principle of equality of all before the law enshrined in the Agreement? That is why it is because the establishment of the so-called “arbitrary tribunal” is envisaged, now called ICS, and which, even with the amendments introduced at the final stage, has the power to protect the interests of transnationals by placing them above the sovereignty of peoples, states and the justice of each State. The Secretary of State speaks in a transitional way, but that is what comes into force if CETA is not rejected. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Secretary of State, Portugal needs to combat its energy, food, technological and demographic deficits; it needs to affirm its sovereignty and resist the economic war of capitalist globalization, defend its internal market and national production, not to trade less...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u199	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u200	I will finish, Mr. President. He said, not to trade less, but to trade more, not to close Portugal to the world, but to develop commercial relations and mutually advantageous cooperation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u201	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u202	Therefore, Madam Secretary of State, it is not acceptable to generalize the isolationist drifts! This country is not doomed to decline and to an increasingly subaltern position in the International Labour Organization! It needs investment to promote the production and competitiveness of growth, employment and social welfare.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u203	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u204	It is not with agreements such as this, defended by PS, PSD and CDS, that these objectives are achieved, quite the contrary. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u205	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u206	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u207	Mr. President, it is to defend the honor of the bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u208	I also ask you to state the basis for this request.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u209	Of course, Mr. President. These are two reasons: first, Mr Bruno Dias described the CDS as 'offshore party'; second, he said that the CDS was taxary of a neo-fascist ideology.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u210	I give you the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u211	Mr President, we are not going to prolong this debate, but Mr Bruno Dias, I mean two very simple things.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u212	Are you going to recognize that you're lying? Are you going to defend the honor? Oh, my God! What honor? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u213	The populists won't let you talk!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u214	First of all, the CDS is not a party of anything other than a tax party of Christian democracy, political current—and there we go—which fought neo-fascism.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u215	You didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u216	The CDS is no longer, no less than a party of its militants and supporters.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u217	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u218	Therefore, Mr President, we do not accept that you qualify the CDS in any other way. Moreover, instead, I would have some party to talk about offshore parties, because the only party that we know has an offshore is the Portuguese Communist Party! [[Rice from PCP MP Miguel Tiago.]] It is situated annually in Atalaia, Sixal, at the feast of the Avante, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u219	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u220	It is good for you to have some parity.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u221	All without charge, free tax!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u222	Turning to the second plea, Mr President, we are not the ones who say that wages must be cut from those who disagree with us!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u223	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u224	It's not us! He is a member of the Portuguese Communist Party, Mr Miguel Tiago, who, yes, seems to be a tribute to certain authoritarian ideologies, when an independent body of the State disagrees from a political position of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, it says: 'The matter is settled. Cutting the maturity or extinguishing the organ»!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u225	He's lying!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u226	Where have we seen this?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u227	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u228	Liar! He's lying!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u229	Finally, Mr President, I must say that we have always been on the side of those who, with suffering and many dead, have always fought against any neo-fascist or national-socialist ideology.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u230	Don't say nonsense!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u231	But, Mr President, we have also always been on the side of countries that have signed this treaty, for example, such as France or the United Kingdom, which have also always fought Stalinist and Leninist ideologies, which have caused millions of deaths.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u232	Don't say nonsense! Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u233	You've wasted your time, Mr Nuno Magalhães.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u234	I will finish, Mr. President. Therefore, Mr President, I would have more parity when qualifying the CDS, because it may, as it will have in this case, have a boomerang effect on the political positions it has taken in the past and, unfortunately, it assumes in the present. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u235	Mr Bruno Dias, would you like to explain yourself?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u236	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u237	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u238	Mr President, Mr Nuno Magalhães, it is appropriate to say: the rounds Mr has gone to hide the fact that he is not right at all! [[PCP applause.]] You have already gone to Atalaia and you have returned to France and have come here and have not answered the concrete questions that the CFP has put here. About offshore, who has explanations to give is the CDS and not the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u239	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u240	And much remains to be discussed—and here we will continue to do this work—with regard to the action of the CDS in the Government, particularly with regard to the work of his colleague Paulo Nuncio, who has much to tell the Assembly of the Republic!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u241	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u242	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u243	That is why we spoke in offshore and how much you have to tell. It's true to say, when the CDS doesn't have any arguments, he'll get the habit!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u244	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u245	Even that operation of the whitening of the Nazi-fascism, which is to put in the same bag the Nazi-fascism and the Hitlerian action of the Second World War with those who are still taxing our respect for 40 million dead who fought Nazi-fascism, as was the case of the Soviet Union and other countries who did so. [[PCP applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] That is why this is a political option by which the CDS responds to the position it places. We did not say here that the CDS has a neo-fascist ideology; what we said was that the PCP, which prides itself and has the honour of being the party in this country, who, with more firmness, with more courage and more loss, faced and fought against fascism and neo-fascism, does not accept any lesson from the CDS in the matter of democracy! [[PCP applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u246	We will resume the normal course of the debate. Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u247	Mr President, Secretary of State for European Affairs: We are still not aware of the reasons why Europe gives large multinationals a broad set of rights and privileges without any counterpart. Perhaps that is why these investment protection mechanisms have already been nicknamed, and with all the property, it is said, of "impunity architecture". In fact, this is what it is about, because multinationals will be able to prosecute States if they make decisions that compromise their expectations of profits. This means that the concern of States is no longer the concern of the people, it is no longer the public interest, because, first of all, it is necessary not to disturb the profits of multinationals. This is absolutely unacceptable! For this reason, the Greens take advantage to announce that they intend to present a legislative initiative in the sense that Portugal will reject CETA. However, within the framework of the ECTA the European Commission launched a public consultation on the establishment of the so-called ‘Multilateral Investment Court’. This court, the MIC ( Multilateral Investment Court ), is assumed as a permanent body to decide on investment disputes and, despite seeking to replace the controversial mechanisms of ISDS or ICS, the most serious aspects will remain, not solving problems related to the unmeasured protection of multinationals, to the detriment of democracy, of citizens' rights, of development, of sustainability, but also of the survival of our micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. This so-called 'public consultation' took place until this week; however, the text was only available in English. We therefore consider this manner of public consultation to be completely wrong and even unacceptable, not only because it is very restrictive, but above all because it is contrary to the principles which must guide a process of this nature and which are, in fact, not compatible with democratic rules. Mr Secretary of State, in good rigour, can we call 'public consultation' what has happened with regard to the level of the MIC? That one more looks like a clown! At the same time, the Secretary of State also asks whether there has been any disclosure by the Government of this public consultation to citizens and organizations. The Secretary of State spoke about the transparency of this process and even said that the negotiations began in 2009. What we want to know is that if this negotiation started in 2009, when did European citizens become aware? When did the European Commission make this negotiation public? at the level of free trade agreements...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u248	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u249	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, at the level of free trade agreements, we have many examples of cases where States have been forced to compensate multinationals in millions and millions of euros. What I would like to know was whether the Secretary of State is aware of any judicial decision requiring a multinational to compensate any of the States. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u250	To close the debate, I call on the Secretary of State for European Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u251	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by referring to the trade situation between Portugal and Canada. Canada represents for Portugal 9. the exporting country, outside the European Union, and 10. in relation to services. The value of exports is EUR 578 million and between 2011 and 2015 there was an increase of 28 %. Here is the question of how Portugal intends to support Portuguese companies with regard to the use of this trade agreement. The first question I would like to mention is: exports of goods to Canada amount to EUR 358 million, distributed by various sectors. The fundamental issue of Portugal's support for exports and Portuguese companies was, as part of the negotiation, to try to reduce and remove tariff patterns and peaks that significantly increased the cost of Portuguese goods on the Canadian market, in areas such as chemicals, machinery and electrical equipment, clothing, textiles, footwear, etc. , and there is a significant reduction of tariffs in tariff peaks today of 18 %, 7%, 8%. In fact, Portugal has been focused on reducing these tariff peaks in the most important sectors in terms of Portuguese exports to Canada. A second question is that of small businesses. Small businesses will clearly benefit from this agreement. Firstly, because of the reduction in customs weight in exports — and when I say customs weight I refer to the costs of customs tariffs, but also as regards administrative overload, duplication of quality tests, etc. , that Portuguese companies have known in the trade relationship with Canada and that they will disappear with the entry into force of this agreement. I must say that I have visited many companies, talked to many entrepreneurs, and this is the fundamental concern of small businesses in the business relationship with Canada. Still returning to the public debate which, as I said, started in 2009, the European Commission has announced it to the citizens, and I am not speaking on behalf of it, but on behalf of the Portuguese Government, and indeed I have had the opportunity, although I have only arrived at the government about a year ago, to see what has been done in terms of public debate since the start of the ECTA negotiations. Indeed, there was consultation by governments with the social partners, professional associations, sectoral associations, which in fact had the opportunity to participate in this public debate in Portugal. But they also had the opportunity to participate at European level, having been heard by the European institutions throughout this period, because much of the social partners and the Portuguese professional and sectoral associations integrate European networks, integrate their European partners and, as a result, have also been heard at European level. I am glad that there was this public debate, because if there are areas where I feel there has been progress in hearing civil society, social partners and social actors, it was exactly CETA. And in CETA we can thank the important work that civil society has had and, as I said recently, its ability to influence political decision makers. I would also like to inform you that, following the approval by this Assembly of the need of the Government to organise a public debate before the discussion and vote on the ratification of this treaty in the Assembly of the Republic, with its Resolution No 19 / 2017, the Government decided to organize three debates in Lisbon, Porto and Leiria, in order to promote discussion with the various political parties with seats in this House, but also with social partners, with European Members participating in the Committee on Foreign Trade of the European Parliament and with civil society organisations, so that there is an even more in-depth debate with regard to CETA. I would also like to return to the question of rights, because it is a very important and very expensive issue for the Socialist Party. With regard to public services, I had the opportunity to read the article that concerns them and I explicitly stated, firstly, that the audiovisual is not integrated in this treaty and public services for education, health, etc. are services that are outside the scope of this treaty. with regard to social rights, not only are those that exist today in the framework of this treaty, as it is explicitly envisaged that countries can make progress in these rights and progress in the field of labour and social rights are still being respected within the framework of the implementation of this treaty of this trade agreement. Responding to specific issues raised here on the issue of hormone meat, it is explicitly determined that hormone meat does not enter the European Union unless it respects the European framework, and verification is made outside Canada. I think that's very important.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u252	There's the problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u253	I would also like to point out that under the current ISDS ( Investor-State Dispute Settlement ), 26, 7 % of cases were decided in favour of investors, but 36, 4 % of cases were decided in favour of governments.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u254	With compensation!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u255	with regard to specific cases that were cited, particularly with the tobacco industry, in a case against the Government of Uruguay and the Government of Australia, neither in one or another case Philip Morris was able to win his trial in court.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u256	Less bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u257	It is very important that this issue is mentioned here, not because of the question itself, but because, and it is worth remembering, these data that I have just mentioned are data that are included in the previous mechanism, which is not the CETA application mechanism. In other words, the previous mechanism was not a sufficiently confident mechanism, while this mechanism is more confident and therefore we are sure that we are more protected in this area and governments do not lose their ability to decide and improve the living conditions and rights of citizens in the European Union. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u258	We have reached the end of the current debate and now move on to the next item on our agenda. In view of the scheduled time, we shall proceed to the vote, after which the next item will be discussed. I call on the services that operate the electronic system for the verification of the deliberation quorum. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 202 presences, to which are added 3 ( Isabel Alves Moreira, PS, Telmo Correia, CDS-PP and Antonio Filipe, PCP ), which makes 205 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote. Let us begin by voting No 250 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Congratulations on the distinction made by Prof. David Rodrigues with the Distinguished International Leader Award 2017 ( BE, CDS-PP, PS, PS, PCP and Os Verdes ), which will be read by the Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u259	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Professor David Rodrigues has just been distinguished with the 2017 Distinguished International Leader Award of the Council for Exceptional Children, a world-class reference institution, made up of academics and professionals in the field of special and inclusive education, based in Boston. This award, which will be delivered on 21 April, is awarded for the first time to a European. David Rodrigues is President of the Pro-Inclusion — National Association of Special Education Teachers, Director of the magazine Education Inclusive and member of the Research Centre of the Institute of Education of the University of Lisbon. Professor of special education, doctored in 1987 and obtained the title of aggregate in 1999. He taught at the University of Lisbon and other Portuguese and foreign universities. He was Professor Coordinator of the School of Education Jean Piaget, in Almada, and Professor of Cathedral at the Portuguese University. He worked on international projects for UNESCO, UNICEF and International Handicap. He is also an OECD consultant for the development and analysis of the curriculum within the Education and Skills 2030 Project. He received the Latin Union Research Award in 2007 and has been National Councillor for Education since June 2015. The award now awarded represents a fair recognition for the work carried out by Prof. David Rodrigues over several years with the educational community, in favor of the education of young people with difficulties and the condition of disability. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary on 17 March 2017, welcomes the award of this award to Professor David Rodrigues and reaffirms its commitment to inclusive education ».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u260	Let's vote for the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[General applause, stand up.]] I am pleased to note, informing the House, that Prof. David Rodrigues is in the galleries. I therefore, with great pleasure, have the opportunity to wish you, on behalf of the Bureau, also to congratulate you on the vote just taken. We turn to vote No 251 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Of praise for the results achieved by the National Athletics Selection of the National Sports Association for Intellectual Development No 8. The European Championship of Covering Athletics, held in Prague ( BE, CDS-PP, PSD, PS, PCP and Os Verdes ). To read the vote, Mr Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u261	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It took place between 8 and 13 days of this month of March in the Czech Republic, the 8th. the European Championship of Covered Track Athletics ( INAS ), having its sporting event with the presence and participation of the National Selection of Athletics of ANDDI ( National Association of Sports for Intellectual Development ). Portugal obtained 13 medals in Prague, six of which are gold, five silver and two bronze, reaching this fact in the most varied modalities, such as pentatlo, high jump and triple jump, among others. Together with this conquest, Portugal has rallied Europe's champion by teams in the women's sector, reaching the first place, an extraordinary result that prides the country. The Assembly of the Republic, like other events welcomed here, presents a vote of praise for the results obtained by the National Athletics Selection of the National Sports Association for Intellectual Development, recognizing the commitment and delivery of athletes and recognizing the importance that the same institution has in promoting and promoting a greater and better inclusion of people with disabilities. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u262	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now turn to vote No 252 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Protest for the Minister of Health's allegations regarding investment in the National Health Service in recent years ( PSD ). For the assessment of this vote, each bench will have 2 minutes. Mr. Miguel Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u263	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Political discourse may always have some arbitrariness and some discretion, but, if it is expressed in this vote, it cannot violate the truth, especially because of lack of foundation. And, in this case, it is sufficient to physically verify the existence of the infrastructures that were made available to the National Health Service. Therefore, it is not possible to have extensive or alternative interpretations. The Minister's statements distance the political discourse from the Portuguese reality, which is incomprehensible, but can only be proposed, with the aim of misleading the Portuguese. In fact, Mr Minister's statements, seeking to change the information and knowledge of reality, translate a practice that is widespread to the parties of the situation. The PS, BE and PCP profess exactly the same line of speech. The Minister said that since 2010, 2011 the National Health Service stopped in terms of rehabilitation and reinvestment, when what happened was exactly the opposite and the investment in the SNS was in fact one of the biggest ever. To prove it, it is enough to check the seven new hospitals that were opened, namely Loures, Vila Franca de Xira, Lamego, Amarante, Guarda, the Center for Rehabilitation of the North or the Centro Materno-Infantil do Norte, or the 37 new health centers. It is also an example of the renewal of various hospital emergency services, namely the Amadora-Sintra hospitals, Vila Nova de Gaia, Faro, Portalegre, Santarém or Barreiro-Montijo, and the funding of the SNS which between 2011 and 2015, exactly in that period, increased by 23 %, which actually denies the version of the investment of recent years. This vote is a clear and perennial statement, which aims to restore the truth about the volume of investment that was made between 2011 and 2015 in SNS infrastructures and which significantly improved the level and quality of access to health care by the population. And it is still a vote based on what the levels of government investment were, supported by the parties here present that support it, and that last year...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u264	Pay attention to time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u265	... had a decrease of 34 % compared to 2015. This is the truth of the facts that we invite the parties to express in our vote. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u266	For an intervention, Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u267	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Indeed, the PSD is not obliged to agree with the Minister of Health. But to bring to the Assembly of the Republic a protest vote on a part of a statement by the Minister of Health disinherited in context, it is at least regrettable. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not how the PSD manages to bring about the social croissance that it seeks so much. I can only argue that in the previous government, there was the greatest investment in human capital, that is the main factor in the qualification and development of the National Health Service. As for the hospitals which you mentioned, in fact, the hospitals opened at that time, when you did. Members were in the government, but the capital for these investments was not the PSD government that made it available. And, between 2011 and 2015, what I remember and we all remember is that we saw the greatest devaluation of professionals, with remuneration reductions of hundreds of millions of euros, as well as the greater reduction of effects that there is memory, leading the National Health Service for the minimum. Against that, yes, we should protest and that, yes, we should never forget. The gentlemen. PSD members protest, continue to protest, but can be certain: they do not divert us from continuing to bring social justice with rigour in management without generating social crispaction. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u268	For an intervention, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u269	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS condemns the increasing debt policy in the SNS by this government — it has done so in multiple debates and in committee, field visits and public positions. The CDS disagrees with the content of Mr. Minister of Health's statements on the alleged de-investment in the SNS by the previous Government. We shall vote in favour of this vote. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u270	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u271	Mr President, a first reference to say the following : we note that after the discussion held at the Conference of Leaders on votes, the PSD insists and does not want to contribute to the proper functioning of the Assembly of the Republic. Now we already have this novelty of voting on statements by members of the government. [[PCP, P.S. and Greens applauded.]] But if we want to discuss health policies, then let us discuss those that were the consequences of the policies that the PSD and the CDS have implemented, during the four years they were in the government, and that they have prevented — and that is exactly what happened — the access of many and many people to health care to which they are entitled. [[PSD protests.]] They insist on whitening and wanting to hide the consequences of the same policy. But we remember them: they brutally increased moderate rates; they prevented many citizens from having access to, inter alia, oncological treatments; they closed, reduced and concentrated services and valences; they denied treatment to patients with hepatitis C; hospitals had no materials to function in conditions. We remember that there was a specific hospital where there were no diapers and, to replace them, they wrapped towels in plastic bags.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u272	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u273	This was your policy while you were there for four years:... [[PCP, P.S. and Greens applauded.]] ... devaluation of professionals and devaluation of the National Health Service. [[PSD protests.]] But we can also recall the deplorable statements of the, then, Secretary of State about emergencies: when we saw that people were in dramatic situations, he said that everything was very good.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u274	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u275	Mr President, I will end by saying the following: in fact, there is a lot to do for the SNS, but it is not with your policies. [[PSD protests.]] Professionals, careers, progressions, wages must be valued. Of course, primary health care must be valued...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u276	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u277	...and guarantee an offer that effectively responds to the needs of citizens. It is in this fight and in that path that is the PCP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u278	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u279	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A first word to acknowledge the originality of this vote, a protest vote on public statements and, above all, public statements which the whole society recognises as true, but on which, however, the PSD decided to make a protest vote. The PSD calls it « protest vote », because indeed the regiment figure for what the PSD wanted to do in this Parliament does not exist, which was a « whitening vote »,... [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] ... i.e., it was to whiteen the responsibilities it had in the previous government, particularly in the destruction and weakening of the National Health Service. [[Protests from PSD MP Carlos Abreu Amorim.]] We understand that the PSD lives in the vain hope that the population will forget what the PSD is in government, that the population will forget what the PSD defends. [[Protests from PSD MP Carlos Abreu Amorim.]] Sir, calm down! You're so excited, calm down!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u280	I don't like lies!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u281	But — listen, Mr President! — I will recall what happened between 2010 and 2015 with the PSD in the Government : a cut of EUR 1430 million in the financing of the National Health Service ; a cut of EUR 969 million in transfers via State budget to the National Health Service ; a loss of 4400 professionals; an increase in moderate rates for double ( in 2010, the State charged EUR 67 million in moderate rates and, in 2015, raised EUR 189 million, i.e. three times more ). This is what the PSD wants to bleach with the vote it presented here. If the gentlemen. Members would like to have a serious discussion on health policy and vote on health policy, but would be here to present a vote of protest and repudiation by the previous government and by the policy that the previous Government followed with regard to the National Health Service. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u282	Let us then vote on vote No 252 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Protest for the Minister of Health's allegations regarding investment in the National Health Service in recent years ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 687 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Move of the President of the Republic to Luxembourg ( RA President ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, having no objection, we shall vote together on requests submitted by the authors of their diplomas, asking the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works for a period of 45 days without voting on the projects of lein. 438 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Determines the subjection of consumer disputes of reduced economic value to the necessary arbitration, where this is chosen by the consumer, and determines the obligation to set up a lawyer in consumer shares ( PSD ), 439 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Determines the establishment within the Directorate-General for Consumer Affairs of a national consumer registration portal for telephone advertising ( PSD ) and 451 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strengthen consumer rights with regard to the consumption of food goods ( PAN) and draft resolutions 717 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures promoting alternative means of resolving consumer disputes ( PSD ), 718 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to train, inform and monitor consumer rights ( PSD ) and 727 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote a more effective consumer information culture ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] These diplomas fall to 6. the Commission. We now turn to the vote on draft resolution No 740 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establishment of a possible committee for decentralization of powers at the level of local authority ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention of 1 Member of the PS (Paulo Trigo Pereira).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u283	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u284	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u285	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u286	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, let us vote on four requests, asking the Committee on the Environment, Planning of the Territory, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing for 90 days without a vote of the proposed law No 62 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — establishes the framework for the transfer of competences to local authorities and to inter-municipal entities, implementing the principles of subsidiarity, administrative decentralization and autonomy of local authority (the original text was replaced by the author) — application by the PS — of Bill No 442 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Framework Law laying down the conditions and requirements for the transfer of responsibilities and competences to local authorities ( PCP ) and draft resolutions 722 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Decentralisation of competences for local authorities ( BE) and 725 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government work towards the reformulation of the system of transfer of competences to local authorities and to inter-municipal entities (NAP) — requests were submitted by the authors of the diplomas. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The diplomas then go down to 11. the Commission. We shall generally vote on Bill No 383 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — establishes the framework for the transfer of competences to local authorities and to inter-municipal entities, implementing the principles of subsidiarity, administrative decentralization and autonomy of local authority ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] The diploma goes down to 11. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u287	We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 449 / XIII ( 2 ). a ) — decentralization of competences for municipalities and intermunicipal entities in education, health, social action, civil protection, beaches, forest management, animal health and food security, heritage and housing ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] The diploma goes down to 11. the Commission. We shall vote on draft resolution No 629 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government continue the process of achieving decentralization in the field of health, education and culture through the conclusion of inter-administrative contracts ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] Let us now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 628 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake the reorganization and provision of service services of the Public Administration ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 630 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish shared service centres and value added at the level of inter-municipal entities ( PSDs ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] Mrs. Members, having no objection, we shall vote for three requests, asking the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works to be discharged, without a vote, for a period of 45 days, of Bill No 50 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates the legal regime for transport by vehicle from an electronic platform ( submitted by PS ) of Bill No 450 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — establishes a new legal regime for the transport of passengers in decharacterised light motor vehicles ( BE) and draft resolution No 724 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures that modernize and introduce transparency in the taxi sector ( BE) submitted by its author. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] The diplomas are down to 6. the Commission. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 591/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government determine the immediate reduction in the production of Celtejo ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against PS, PS, CDS-PP and PCP, with votes against BE and PAN and the Greens' abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u288	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u289	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u290	Mr President, it is to announce that, with regard to this vote, I shall, together with Mr António Gameiro and Mrs Idália Salvador Serrão, deliver a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u291	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Luís Testa now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u292	Mr President, it is also to announce that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u293	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Ana Virginia still has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u294	Mr President, it is also to inform that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u295	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, the vote on the remaining diplomas in the script is, of course, postponed. We are therefore giving an end to the voting period. We will enter the third point of the order of business, with the general appreciation of Bill No. 416 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establishs mechanisms to protect the blue heritage by proceeding with 13. the amendment to the Urbanization and Building Legal Regime ( PS ), together with draft resolutions 645 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Consecrate on May 6 as the National Tile Day ( PS ), 683/ XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Protection of Portuguese tile heritage ( PCP ), 720 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of Portuguese tile heritage protection mechanisms ( CDS-PP ) and 723 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Protection and enhancement of Portuguese tile heritage ( BE). For the first intervention on this point, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u296	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The enhancement of Portuguese blue heritage is a matter which can and should produce legislative and resolution measures by this House. As many years ago it has been underlined, particularly through the work of the project SOS Azulejo, constituted in the framework of the Museum of Judicial Police and whose coordinator, Dr. Leonor Sá, today present in the Chamber, greeting, this is a matter that constitutes incalculable wealth and value and occupies a place of importance, not only in the historical and artistic heritage of our country, as in the heritage of Humanity, highlighting itself by the quality and quantity of themes, styles, materials, techniques and uses. With ancestral roots of the Arab presence in our territory, with a dialogue with numerous techniques and arts over the centuries, with particular emphasis from the 16th century, with a dialogue also increasingly evident, with other artistic formulas and with another participation, creating a fundamental intertextuality for its characterization, this is effectively an artistic manifestation that values the national reality, which produced and ensured the flowering of a very significant tile industry with international expression and which, thanks to the Portuguese presence in various corners of the world, is also a heritage with an international scale. Despite its characteristics of blue and white, it is also a rich demonstration of the chromatic pallets that adorn our facades and much of that which is the national heritage. The 19th and 20th centuries also marked its presence in the public space with the arrival of names of the greatest bulk of our plastic expression, such as Rafael Bordalo Pinheiro, Carlos Botelho, Sá Nogueira, Cherubim Lapa, Júlio Pomar, Eduardo Nery, Maria Keil or João Abel Manta. by its originality, by its global dissemination, by the importance of the techniques and the involvement of artists in its construction, the Portuguese tile heritage deserves the protection of public institutions and deserves the attention of Parliament. But it is also, unfortunately, an estate at risk — at risk of theft, at risk of degradation by the incuria, at risk of intentional destruction by vandalism and at risk of interventions in the building that do not adequately care for its preservation and preservation. Thanks to many of the measures implemented between 2007 and 2013, it was possible to reduce by about 80 % the number of tiled heritage thefts. however, especially on the axis that concerns requalification, we still find, effectively, a very significant work to be done. Nevertheless, it is fair to highlight the work that some municipalities have already done, with the city of Lisbon on the front line, but which was also accompanied by Coruche, Santa Comba Dão and Vale de Cambra. These municipalities have entered into their municipal regulations measures of protection, guarantee and safeguard so that facades covered with tiles or panels of tiles with artistic relief and with heritage value cannot be destroyed without at least validating by the competent municipal licensing authorities. For this reason, today we present not only legislative, concrete measures to amend the regulatory framework and the legislative framework precisely in this area, extending to the 308 municipalities the reality that we have already found in these four, but also, symbolically, we add the recognition of May 6 as National Tile Day. We understand that it is a path that will be made in the coming years and that surely the Portuguese tiled heritage can find a space in the heritage of Humanity, making company also to the fado. In fact, the fairy and tile have already been found in the past, thanks to the words of Ary dos Santos and the voice of Carlos do Carmo.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u297	Pay attention to time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u298	Therefore, let us remember that « The tiles of the city, on a wall or on a bench, are plates of longing dress blue and white». Let us hope that the tiled heritage will soon be accompanied by other Portuguese artistic events and that we will be able to safeguard it in the coming years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u299	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u300	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party begins by welcoming the commitment of all entities and organizations, as well as the various researchers and individuals, individually, who have fought in defense of the Portuguese tiled heritage over the years. We particularly welcome the SOS Tile Project, of initiative and coordination of the Judicial Police Museum, an organ of the Judicial Police School, which, in addition to the multidisciplinary approach in the field they have developed in this area, brought to the parliamentary groups and to the Assembly of the Republic, in an open and constructive manner, the need to develop legislation in order to protect, preserve and disseminate this important part of our country's cultural heritage. The draft resolution presented by the CFP today results from this joint dialogue and reflection work, recommending to the Government that it develop a specific plan to protect the Portuguese blue heritage that includes its inventory, its preventive conservation and a strategy of awareness for its study, dissemination and valuation. We believe that there should be a comprehensive approach and treatment of protection of Portuguese blue heritage in a coherent and balanced way throughout the national territory, avoiding the atomization of policies and the inequality of approach to this subject. As a result of the lack of development of a substantive policy by successive governments, it must be recalled that many political options, not only in terms of heritage, but also in terms of abandonment and devaluation of sectors and services of strategic value for the country, such as rail, have contributed to major difficulties in the registration, inventory and conservation in situ and ex situ of Portuguese tile heritage. It is necessary to make this specific reference to the railway because the closure of lines, bridges and stations and the dismantling of stations and other facilities—even when they continued to have railway service— leaving them abandoned and without support for the users, had consequences for the populations, for the workers, for the national economy, for the cultural heritage and, in particular, for the tiled heritage of our country, which knows great examples at the railway stations from North to South of the country, which saw them, in some cases, harm or even disappear. We also appreciate in this chapter the concrete intervention of the SOS Tile Project with the REFER (National Railway Network, E.P.E. ) Could not connect with command "%s": %s. We also recall the need for agileization and urgent intervention in cases of flagrant destruction of the tiled heritage, such as the sadly famous ancient Factory of Ceramics in Vila Nova de Gaia. For decades the PCP has intervened in this matter, with formal complaints to the then IGESPAR(Instituto de Gesão do Patrimonio Architectónico e Archaeological ), having come to present a draft law with a view to protecting the installations for conversion to the Museum of Ceramics, whose lead in the Assembly of the Republic has contributed decisively to the current degradation, having already been lost multiple elements of high value, by the action of the natural elements and by vandalism or theft. Finally — and because it is also related to all this — it is necessary to consider the intervention and development of measures with regard to combating the theft of tiles, in particular in terms of the registration and monitoring of the flow of sale of old tiles. This is a matter which, because of its complexity, as we have had the opportunity to address, debate and develop in meetings with the SOS Tile Project, we consider that we still have great challenges and that we lack greater maturity and reflection. On the part of the CFP we will be, of course, always open and available to continue this struggle in defense of our cultural heritage, in this perspective of valuing our country's blue heritage, which is an important and very representative piece of our knowledge, of our art and our culture, which we very much value, and we consider today to have, in hand, a wonderful opportunity to contribute to this effort. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u301	For an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u302	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The art of Portuguese tiles was introduced in the 16th century from the Spanish-Arab root and has been a prominent place in national culture for centuries. If, initially, it was used only for the purpose of completing and enriching the interior of civil and religious buildings, it quickly began to be used in other aspects, from simple geometry, avulsive figures, complex patterns and storied panels. The tiles are present today in our daily newspapers in churches, palaces, convents, hospitals, schools, barracks, markets, in a huge set of buildings and facades of buildings, in toponyms, in advertising ads and even in cemeteries and the themes that are represented are of the noblest to the most trivial, ancient and modern, covering various times and various styles and techniques. Also the main Portuguese artists left their personal concoction in tiled panels. Even today, contemporary artists and architects use the tiles in panels and in facade coating. All this diversity of rich color, geometry, styles, themes, techniques and materials motivates experts and art historians and dazzles the foreigners who visit Portugal, but they also awaken the appetence of the trade of antiques and national and international collectors. For all this, coupled with the lack of conservation, for lack of interest, neglect or ignorance, perhaps also because of the fact that tiles are so present in our daily lives, there has been a delapidation over the years of this vast and rich heritage, also through thefts and acts of vandalism. The SOS Tile Project, mentioned above, was in fact an excellent initiative of the Judicial Police Museum, which in 2007 emerged due to the imperative need to combat and reverse this trend, having the virtue of encompassing not only the criminal prevention aspect but also that of preventive conservation and awareness of the population. Some municipalities have also played an important role in safeguarding this heritage, but these measures have not proved sufficient. In fact, tiles have an indelible mark in Portuguese culture and landscape and it is imperative to defend and preserve this heritage. For this reason, the CDS presents this draft resolution which recommends to the Government that it create mechanisms that include the conservation, restoration and preventive aspects of the tile heritage; that it create mechanisms for the inventory of the public and, where possible, private tile heritage; that it create mechanisms that contemplate the measures necessary to prevent and monitor the demolition of facades with tiles or the removal of tiles thereof. The project further recommends that the Government promote awareness-raising actions of the university, academic and research community for the study of the history of the heritage tile and also promote awareness-raising, dissemination and enhancement of the heritage tile with the Portuguese population. It was also important to follow closely and strengthen the candidature of the Portuguese tile to UNESCO's world heritage, which was urgent to be approved and, in essence, caressed, to complete this whole framework and could in fact have a very important role and relevance at international level, since Portugal is the country with the richest set of tiles throughout Europe. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Finally, I would like to point out that the role of municipalities has been fundamental. As such, I cannot fail to regret that, in a lecture where I have recently been in one of the municipalities referred to by Pedro Delgado Alves, the municipality of Santarém, it has been said that, despite being the municipality of the country with the largest set of tiles at national level and covering all the painters, all the artists and all the time, no decision has yet been made. in this sense, the CDS submitted very recently a request to the City Hall of Santarém and asked the Government, the Ministry of Culture, for this issue to be developed. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u303	Mr Jorge Campos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u304	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at this point, the subject under discussion is always risky, since I am going to repeat some of the statements already produced here, which, moreover, could not stop happening. The Lusitanian and Portuguese heritage is a reference to our history and our culture: I believe it is evidence for all and that has just become patent. Initially only used within civil and religious buildings, the tile quickly became seen also on the facades either for decorative purposes or for the protection of the building. Based on the Spanish-Arab tradition introduced in Portugal in the 16th century, it soon gained its own identity. Today, according to the studies conducted by national and foreign historians and researchers and the curiosity and interest of creators who saw in it an inspiration for innovative experiences, if the Portuguese tile is already national heritage, it would be good that soon it would also be the heritage of Humanity. It characterizes it a great diversity of styles and languages, which have overlapped and evolved over time. We find examples that attest you in churches, convents, museums, houses, gardens, fountains, stairways, railway stations and in public and urban spaces, where you rose with new dynamism by the hands of artists in highly diversified areas, certainly in architecture, as Siza Vieira noted, but also in graphic design, fashion, furniture, plastic arts and multimedia art. In this regard, I draw even attention to the work of American artist Joshua Davis, who made a very complete survey of Portuguese tile and who is a leading artist in digital context. In short, we are therefore faced with a form of artistic expression of enormous potential for innovation and the future. This, moreover, can be attested through the spoils of the National Tile Museum. But the story of tile is also a story of vicissitudes, greed and even police. Just because the value is recognized, theft and trafficking have become recurrent. The demolition of buildings, without any concern about tiles, degradation, vandalization, lack of investment in the area of culture and, consequently, restoration and preservation have contributed to their loss and degradation. It is true that, along with the National Tile Museum, even with few means, several institutions and initiatives have contributed to controlling damage and preventing major evils. This is the case of the annual awards project SOS Tile, promoted by the Museum of Judicial Police, in partnership with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, the Directorate-General of Cultural Heritage, the Research Network in Tile, the Institute of Art History of the Faculty of Letters of the University of Lisbon, the University of Aveiro, the Political Institute of Tomar, the Republican National Guard and the Public Security Police. But, of course, the work of these institutions is very worthwhile, so we need to go further. It is the duty of the State to protect and value cultural heritage, it is urgent to take measures in conjunction, in particular, with the entities I have just mentioned, and in this sense goes the draft resolution of the Left Block. It is a project, within the framework of public policies for culture, which allows the establishment of protective mechanisms, with regard to the Urbanisation and Building Legal Regime (RJEU), in particular with regard to the licensing mechanisms for the removal of tiles in the facades and interiors. It is a shared project of inventory, study and disclosure, with a view to valuing and preserving this heritage. Soon the Left Block will vote in favour of all the projects and all the documents appreciated and, in this case, despite the exchange of handcuffs that we have seen recently, of course we do not fear contamination to the CDS and we will also vote on the CDS project. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u305	Mr António Tropa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u306	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Bill No. 416 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), which establishes the mechanisms for the protection of the tiled heritage, proceeds to the tenth amendment of the legal regime of urbanization and construction. The proposers intend to provide the municipalities with means of intervention, within their competences, in the context of urban operations, with a view to preserving and protecting the Portuguese tiled heritage. The historical evolution of this historical and cultural heritage, which began by being found in convents, palaces and others, was then universalized, also existing within and outside public and private buildings. Conscious of the risks and threats to which it is subjected — thefts, vandalism, demolitions and wastes — and the importance of its preservation for future generations — it is intended to start an appropriate form of protection through legislation. It is therefore proposed to amend the Urbanization and Building Legal Regime, in order to subject the administrative licence to the realization of works resulting in the removal of tiles or the demolition of facades of buildings and to which the demolition of facades coated with tile with heritage value is grounds for the refusal of urban operations. Today, draft resolutions 683/ XIII ( 2 ) are also under discussion and vote. ( a ), 720 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and 723 / XIII ( 2. a ) that, in general terms, they are all very similar, as they recommend to the Government that they create mechanisms and plans for protection, conservation, maintenance and restoration and inventory and disclosure of the Portuguese tile heritage, recommendations we follow. A special word for the work of the National Tile Museum, the Research Network in Tile, the Directorate-General of Heritage, the SOS Tile project, an initiative with coordination of the Museum of Judicial Police, the body of the School of Judicial Police and many other entities that do fantastic work in defending the building heritage. Finally, draft resolution No 645 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), which recommends to the Government the consecration of May 6 as the National Tile Day. The PSD Parliamentary Group supports this proposal to set up the National Tile Day, in particular the Members. Members elected by the circle of Aveiro, because this will be a tribute to all the factories and workers of the ceramic factories, which exist in large numbers in the country and in large numbers in the district of Aveiro, and to the municipalities of the district of Aveiro which, perhaps because they have a very close connection to the factories of tiles, have done a work to collect and preserve the numerous incalculable value copies in the district, in public and private panels and buildings, in particular the new art copies in Aveiro, in Ílhavo and in many other municipalities of the district. I leave here a special highlight for the municipality of Ovar, which has several years in a workshop to preserve and restore tile, with an inventory of all the buildings held by tiles with high heritage value, which gave rise to the title Ovar, City-Museum Vivo do Azulejo. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u307	Mr President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u308	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u309	Mr President, I know that this request is not very common, but I cannot help doing so. I would like to ask for a vote to be rectified and I will quickly say what this is and why it is. It happens that, with the leaps in the vote script in order not to vote on the proposals and projects that had not yet been discussed in plenary, at some point the Greens had the perception that they were at the end of the vote script when we had not yet arrived there. For this confusion, we thought we were voting on draft resolution No 601/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) the Left Block, which recommends to the Government the establishment of an emergency response plan to incidents at the Almaraz nuclear power plant, when we were finally voting on draft resolution No 591/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ), also from the Left Block, which recommends that the Government determine the immediate reduction in the production of Celtejo. And therefore for draft resolution No 591/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a), we abstained when our vote was in favour. Anyone who knows the public positions of The Greens will understand that he could never cease to be this way. I therefore call for the amendment of the Greens vote, which, in any case, does not alter the final outcome of the vote on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u310	Madam Member, the whole House understands this fact and the vote will be corrected. Mrs. Members, we conclude the assessment of Bill No. 416 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and draft resolutions 645 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), 683/ XIII ( 2. ( a ), 720 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and 723 / XIII ( 2. ( a). We will move on to the discussion, in general, of Bill No. 452 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Planning of the nuclear emergency and involvement of citizens ( The Greens) together with draft resolutions 601 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends the establishment of an emergency response plan at the Almaraz ( BE ) and 726 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government draw up a radiological emergency plan for cross-border nuclear accidents (PAN). Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u311	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens today come to propose to the Assembly of the Republic a draft law on the planning of the nuclear emergency and the involvement of citizens in this planning. What The Greens understand is that although Portugal has been a country that has made the option—and very well! — if we do not install any nuclear power plant, the fact is that, as is public knowledge, we are faced with specific dangers and threats arising from the reverse option that our neighbour Spain has made. with regard to energy matters and, fundamentally, by the proximity to our border, we are seriously confronted with the danger of the operation of the nuclear power plant in Almaraz, and, as well as public knowledge, there is an intention, by the Spanish Government, to try to prolong the operation of this nuclear power plant. We understand that the position of Portugal, in particular the Portuguese Government, because it would be totally irresponsible if it were not, can only be that of defending the failure to extend the operation of this nuclear power plant. In any case, this operation should not go beyond the year 2020, but the fact is that after the closure of this nuclear power plant, there is also a period that represents a concrete risk to our country, our territory, our populations, our ecosystems, which is the dismantling of the nuclear power plant in Almaraz. in this sense, The Greens consider it important to provide the country with emergency plans for civil protection with a radiological component. It is true that the National Emergency Plan for Civil Protection already contains this component, but district plans and municipal plans, especially those of the banks of the Tagus, do not contain this prediction and this radiological component, and we understand that this is important. And it is important that people be involved both in their own planning and then in their test. And the truth is that what we know is that these plans, particularly the national, have already been tested several times in the room, in order to coordinate the various entities involved in operationality, but it has not been tested in the field, what we normally call « simulations». We are aware of this in the parliamentary days which the Greens have made on this matter and therefore we consider, and in the light of the views of the responsible authorities, that it is important for these simulations to be done so that the people understand and feel informed about what must be done in the case of a nuclear accident. And, on these parliamentary days, we clearly realize that people in general do not know what to do in the case of a nuclear accident.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u312	Mr Jorge Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u313	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Almaraz nuclear power plant was supposed to have closed in 2010 if the expected operating deadlines had been met. A nuclear power plant, in its normal operation, is always a danger, but seven years after the end of this period, initially planned, the dangers do not cease to worsen, and therefore the incidents themselves, being more frequent every year that passes, impose a contingency plan, an emergency plan to respond in the case of one such incident is more serious than those that have been. The absence of any kind of emergency plan, in response to an incident like this in Portugal, due to an accident in Spain and which is having impacts in Portugal, is the most eloquent testimony of the negligence with which the issue of Almaraz has been dealt with over the years and in particular over the last seven years in which the power plant already operates beyond its normal duration. The existence of this risk is recognized by the institutions and civil protection authorities themselves, the problem is that nothing concrete results from this finding, which is included in official reports and documents, but which is not consistently transformed into concrete initiatives, in involvement of local institutions, authorities, in direct information to citizens, in simulations, as mentioned by Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, and much less in preventive measures, such as those that are currently taken in other countries, such as the distribution of iodine pills and other resources to the population of areas that may be most directly affected in this context. Instead of a quick initiative, we have had some wrong and worrying signs in the current context. Recently, Mr. Secretary of State of the Internal Administration's statements, confusing an emergency plan with an evacuation plan and reducing the area to which an emergency plan should correspond to 30 kilometres, which are those who, in general, in the event of a nuclear accident are evacuated immediately, shows that the debate is very late and that there is still much to do in preparing the measures in this area. And it is not due to lack of warning, say in favour of the truth, because the social mobilization itself, the civic mobilization itself on this issue—it is enough to remember the Tejo Seguro civic platform that has already installed, at its expense, through a crowdfunding initiative, a system of radiation monitoring sensors in the Tejo area and the border area—show that society is organized and demanding, particularly in areas closest to the Almaraz nuclear power plant. Therefore, concrete steps need to be taken not only in the border area, not only in the area closest to the nuclear power plant, because we need to take into account the importance of the Tejo river, which is where the power plant cools its reactors and can bring radiation and contamination to the capital of the country, beyond the territory that the Tejo river travels. Therefore, this need for intervention is emerging and we hope that Parliament's initiative can be decisive in order to take the necessary steps. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u314	Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u315	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let me tell you that, once again, we are faced with an inconvenient truth, that there is a huge and measurable real risk caused by the operation of the Spanish nuclear power plants, especially those located near the Portuguese border, such as the Almaraz nuclear power plant, which is only 100 km away, and that of Santa María de Garoña, whose prolongation of life is also foreseen by the Spanish Government, in addition to a failure to comply with international conventions and disrespect for Portugal. Failure of Spain to comply with the Portuguese Government has not yet reacted as it should, and we have therefore presented draft resolution No 739 / XIII ( 2 ) last Wednesday. ( a). Both the power stations, Almaraz and Santa Maria de Garoña, are obsolete and have exceeded their useful life, both are an imminent threat to all of us, not Fukushima and Chernobyl imperative realities and real examples of the catastrophic social, economic and environmental impacts of nuclear and the costs associated with its mitigation amounting to billions of euros. We know that the Portuguese Government cannot override Spanish sovereignty, but we also know that the best way to predict the future is to create it. The NAP therefore brings here today an initiative aimed at drawing up and presenting, by the Government, as soon as possible, a radiological emergency plan capable of responding effectively to cross-border nuclear accidents. We have the support of all the banks and we believe that the expression 'prevent better than to remedy' is appropriate here! [[Congratulations from BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u316	Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u317	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: We are here once again to deal with an important issue that everyone is very concerned about. The activity of this Parliament, in particular that of 11. the Commission has been permanent and exhaustive in these matters. The issue of Almaraz has been at the heart of political discourse, but also in the Portuguese, Spanish and European environmental organisations, in the autoarchies and in the general population, in particular in places closest to the central and not for the best reasons. We reaffirm, in this respect, that what we want is that the power station in Almaraz does not extend its period of operation until 2020; we will continue to reaffirm this principle and demand it from the Portuguese and Spanish governments. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u318	With regard to the particular issue we are discussing here, the Government has said that the country is prepared to react in the event of an accident in Almaraz and that the Tejo River is not in danger, since, when the river passes to Portuguese territory, the particles that exist no longer have any effect. I mean, the government says it's safe. But, on the contrary, several entities have already expressed themselves in the opposite direction, i.e. claiming that Portugal is not prepared for a nuclear accident. We want to believe what the government says about this, but in fact we follow the concerns that are expressed in the legislative initiatives that we are discussing today. A few months ago, the Minister of the Environment told us that there was no reason for concern about Almaraz or the construction of the nuclear waste store and that Spain would first talk to Portugal, but, some time ago, the Minister of the Environment was surprised by a unilateral decision of the Spanish Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u319	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u320	He then said that if Spain did not comply with European standards on this matter, if Spain did not carry out a cross-border evaluation, he would file a complaint at the European Union judicial office, which he did. He submitted the complaint, but quickly withdrew it, although Spain stated and reaffirmed that it had no legal obligation to carry out that cross-border evaluation. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CDS has many doubts and many concerns about this. We want the safety of the populations to be duly safeguarded, so the development of a plan, which also includes the various municipalities directly involved and the various entities, appears to us to be relevant and predictable in this matter. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u321	Mr Santinho Pacheco has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u322	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, I welcome the Left Block, the Greens Ecological Party and the Animal-Nature People's Party for bringing the debate, in this House, a topic of public relevance and of great relevance today. Mr André Silva is right when he says that it has always been better to prevent than to remedy. Prevention is the supreme value of civil protection and its greatest asset. at the time when in this Chamber, and also in the country, the issue of Almaraz is debated with concern, either in the context of the extension of the life-time of the central, either in the construction of the ATI (Individualized Temporary Warehouse ), discussing the topic of nuclear emergency and its planning can give a wrong signal to our people and to the Spanish authorities. We must therefore be clear about the ideas and principles so that there are no mistakes. We all know that Spain has ‘the knife and cheese in its hand’ and that its behaviour is at the expense of the interests of the Portuguese people. Any participation in Brussels in nothing changes the management of this process by Spain, as is the case in other border conflicts a little across Europe and for the same reasons. Spain will not open the hand of its sovereign power to decide on its energy policy and believes that it is up to it to defend its populations living around the central and that what is safe for them cannot be dangerous for Portugal, which is 100 km away from that central. It must be made clear that this debate is not a sign of resignation, it is not a flight ahead of the Portuguese Parliament to the dictates of the nuclear option of the kingdom of Spain; on the contrary, it reinforces the reason for our struggle to mobilize populations and civil society against Germany and its dangers. Also the web and the Tejo basin cannot see this debate as an alarmist, because he is so responsible and careful. The potential danger even exists and prevents is intelligent and sensible. The hypothesis of contamination of the Tejo's air and water are real dangers. Having civil protection, at national or local level, in readiness, prepared to respond to all kinds of disasters, whether a fire, an earthquake or a tsunami, is all that can and must do a predictable and modern state. We know that the government is attentive and available to give shape to a prevention policy, without alarming or exaggerating, which reassures public opinion, a policy that includes and frames the emergency plan in the event of a nuclear accident in Almaraz. The Portuguese Environment Agency shall maintain the radioactivity measurement network and strengthen bilateral exchange with the Spanish Nuclear Security Council. We believe it is important to review the national emergency plan, particularly when updating the National Operational Directive No 3 — an integrated nuclear, radiological, biological and chemical operation device. National institutions and civil protection technicians and operations are creditors of our respect. We must be able to convey security to the people of the Tejo Valley and the river and the words of order are: trust, indeed, without fear and without taboos! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u323	Mr Manuel Frexes spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u324	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome the Greens Parliamentary Group and other benches which, when presenting this initiative, allow for a very important debate on the need to set up emergency plans to prevent possible nuclear accidents. In 1983, the Government of Portugal, which was part of the PSD, took a historic decision: it opted for non-nuclear. Despite this option, from this date until today, Portugal has experienced walls with the nuclear threat, since Spain, our neighbouring country, has opted for nuclear. About 100 km from our White Castle border lies the Almaraz nuclear power plant, which will soon complete 40 years of labor, which should determine its closure and consequent dismantling. However, Spain has decided to apply for a licence to build a nuclear waste store, which indicates the intention of prolonging the life of this already obsolete and outdated plant and with a history of numerous incidents, for more than 20 years, to sum up to 40 years of its existence. In view of this scenario, it is also clear that there is an increasing need to prevent the risk from nuclear. We believe that the best way to prevent risk is to eliminate it. Therefore, the best thing is to demand the closure of the Almaraz nuclear power plant. This was also the consensual orientation taken by this House in unanimous resolution adopted in July last year. Unfortunately, on this subject the Government, especially the Minister for the Environment, has always adopted a weak and hesitant stance.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u325	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u326	In fact, the Minister of the Environment has always had an absolutely disparate attitude, even saying to a weekly that the incidents at the Almaraz nuclear power station are the common ones that happen in any other industrial unit. That's amazing! Only this week, last Tuesday, the Minister for the Environment understood the seriousness of this situation and, in a sudden wonder of clarity, made his remarks to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. In other words, he took all steps to shut down the Almaraz nuclear power plant. Hallelujah! Finally, there was light in the understanding of the Minister for the Environment! We therefore consider that any improvement in the information and security measures that mitigate the risk of nuclear accident in Spain is obviously positive and, as such, these proposals should be accepted, we should not, in any way, view this as a disproposing alarmism and abjection of the nuclear threat, as strangely claimed by the President of the Municipal House of Castelo Branco. Paradoxically, it's who needs the most. The danger is real and with the safety and well-being of the populations all care is few. The old saying has already been said: “Cut and broth have never hurt anyone”! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u327	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u328	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by welcoming the Greens Ecological Party for the agenda of this debate, which is as useful as necessary. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the legislative initiatives currently under discussion, in one way or another, come to cross with the issues of Almaraz. It is a fact that the proximity of this nuclear power plant to Portugal is about 100 km away, along with the cooling of the reactors of this power plant being made in the waters of the river Tejo, with all the impacts that these circumstances entail, causes concern in the populations. If we add that this nuclear power plant has, from the outset, revealed serious problems with its safety and that it has suffered several incidents related to the same security during its existence, duly proven and denounced by the Spanish Nuclear Security Council, the concerns of the population are extended. The extension of the duration of the life of the Almaraz power plant for another 10 years by 2020 and the possibility of it being renewed for another 10 years, as indicated by the construction of an individual temporary warehouse, add more fear to the populations, particularly those living in the districts of Castelo Branco and Portalegre. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: in order to protect the health, safety of populations and the environment, we must act promptly and appropriately, requiring updated information from Spain, with regard to the safety of the Almaraz nuclear power plant. Human and material resources must be made available to effectively monitor and monitor the waters of the river Tejo, as well as the air quality we breathe. The public interest and the safety of populations must be safeguarded, in view of the current situation in which Almaraz is central and the risk it represents and which justifies the invocation of the precautionary principle. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u329	in this sense, Mrs and Mrs. Members, there is a need for radiological emergency planning that provides an effective and efficient response to any nuclear-related emergency. It's a necessity that needs to be filled. In order to ensure the safety and health of populations, therefore, the existence of an emergency plan is imperative, which we hope will never be necessary, ready to act in a scenario of any serious radioactive incident, as well as the clarification and preparation of the populations for the procedures to be adopted in the face of this situation, in addition to the identification of the measures and the means to be allocated. The CFP considers that it is important, above all, to ensure the safety and health of populations, as well as the quality of the environment, and that the precautionary principle should be convened whenever the circumstances so require. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u330	This debate will be concluded with the final intervention, while still available, of Mrs Heloísa Apolónia. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u331	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in a very rapid way, I would like to say that the Greens believe that it must even be in the form of a law that we must provide for the mandatory existence of these radiological emergency plans. The Block and the PAN, for their part, agreed to present draft resolutions. We believe it is not incompatible to put the law and at the same time recommend it to the government. However, these other parties believe that a specific emergency plan should be made for nuclear matters, but the Greens believe that this emergency plan can integrate existing emergency plans, because otherwise we will have to make specific plans for other existing risks and are also serious, especially for the risk of earthquakes and others. But the essential thing is, in fact, that emergency planning is done. On the other hand, I wanted to draw attention to a constant issue in the draft resolution of the Block, because I think we should be more rigorous in this matter. This, in fact, imposes great rigour on us. We cannot make an emergency plan for incidents at the Almaraz nuclear power plant, because we are not talking about side events, nor about accessories. We must, even, prepare ourselves for accidents at the Almaraz nuclear power plant. in this regard, of course, we consider abstention from voting on this draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-17.u332	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus come to the end of our broad agenda today. It remains to be announced that the next plenary meeting will take place on Wednesday 22, and will have on the agenda the 15th-year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( 2 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure. There's nothing else to deal with, I'm closing the session. [[It was 13 hours and 40 minutes.]]
