ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 2 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary Duarte Pacheco will report information to the plenary. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform you that the NAP announced the withdrawal of draft law No 432 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Alter to Law No 112 / 2009 of 16 September 2009 on the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence and the protection and assistance of its victims, which is no longer contained in today's vote script. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u3	Mrs. Members, let us, then, begin by discussing draft resolutions 658 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the reorganization of the network of offices to assist victims of domestic violence by GNR and PSP ( CDS-PP ), 700 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the inclusion of statistical data on dating violence in the Annual Internal Security Report ( PS ), 705 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government work towards the resizing of assumptions in the application of the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence and the protection and assistance of its victims ( PAN ), 710 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends the training of security forces for the protection of victims of domestic violence ( BE) and 714 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strengthening measures to combat domestic violence ( The Greens ). To present the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The 2015 Annual Report of the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Internal Administration ( SGMAI ), on domestic violence, brings us once again worrying data and the most impressive of which is the fact that, in terms of crimes against people, domestic violence is the most registered type of crime, representing 33% in this type. The data from 2016 so far known—should be to exit the respective report, we have not yet known it—in relation to the first half of the year are nothing encouraging, because there is also an increase in crime in this area. Although the number of accusations and convictions is low, thanks often to the lack of evidence and false complaints, the fact is that domestic violence is real, happens where it is not expected, where we do not know and where we did not imagine and the consequences are very serious, not only for the victim, but obviously for the victim. If it is true that prevention is absolutely essential — and that is what we have worked on in the previous legislation, for example by setting up the after-effect analysis teams in domestic violence and strengthening the capacity of security forces to intervene through individual safety plans based on the risk of revitalization — it is no less true that support for the victim is crucial. The victim is perhaps faced with one of the most difficult moments in his life and when it takes courage to take on and face the drama because of what is happening and, therefore, the first care, above all, is very relevant, not only for the comfort that we should give to the victim, the will and privacy, as well as because of the investigation—and this is not really important—that will be done next and the proof that will be produced. Therefore, the way the victim is treated with the first impact is essential. We know that more than 50% of complaints are made in front of the police stations—and we must enhance the excellent work of the security forces and services in this area—and we know that there is already more than 60% of the national territory covered with victim care rooms and, in an equal world, in a world where we would all like to live, we would not hesitate to impose by decree, immediately, gender rooms. however, knowing that we live in the possible world and in the real world, we propose that, as far as possible, there be a strengthening of the conditions of the existing service rooms and the creation of news where they do not exist, not before doing a survey of the territorial distribution in order to be made a detailed analysis that allows us to make a priority of the needs, precisely because we do not live in an ideal world and we have to choose those that are most essential.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u6	Moreover, I take this opportunity to recommend to the Government that, with regard to the law on the programming of the infrastructure and equipment of the security forces and services, allocate a specific amount for this purpose. The Government has simply refused to say that money is intended for what, to which force or to which service and within what time limit. at least in this respect, to say why it allocates the money and how it hierarchys priorities. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u7	To present the draft resolution of the Socialist Party, Mrs Elza Pais has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Domestic violence is a serious violation of human rights and is one of the most striking aspects of gender inequality, representing an imbalance in power between men and women. We are faced with a terrible reality: almost 27 000 people complain every year to the security forces, and 85% of these are women and, in the last 10 years, 450 women have been brutally murdered by their partners. We also know from the European Union Agency for Fundamental Rights that 67 % still does not report violence against them. The fight against this phenomenon has been done smoothly since 2000 in a cross-sectional manner by all governments. I therefore welcome the commitment of all political forces in this struggle, which is clearly visible in the presentation of these five diplomas. in this governance, an integrated and territorialized strategy of prevention, combat and protection of victims is under way, with strong involvement of authorities and non-governmental organizations. This strategy breaks the asymmetries of support. In addition, a crisis centre was opened for victims of domestic violence, a victim support service was created (LGBTI lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transsexuals and intersexuals), which is truly pioneer, yesterday was launched to AppVD (apppoio Contra la Violência Doméstica), an application for smartphones, a simple, powerful and highly effective instrument for immediate access anywhere in the country and at any time. This application will decrease the gap in the difference of responses at the level of the territory, will provide support to victims even in areas where there is less response, such as within the country, will identify the legal and psychological counselling services and will therefore also facilitate reporting. Domestic violence is, as we all know, rooted in very difficult civilizational and cultural values, so we need not only to fight but also a strong prevention strategy that is effective and continuous in order to avoid the reproduction of violence among new generations. So you go to the root of the problem and to the place where oppression and subjugation are built on the basis of gender. It is urgent to prevent violence in courtship. We welcome the Government's increased awareness-raising efforts, the launch of the campaign « Change of course: violence in dating is not for you », the prevention projects that will reach more than 15 000 young people throughout the country, the creation of a line of support to combat violence in dating and the inclusion of the theme of violence and gender stereotypes in school curricula from basic to higher education. It is to deepen this strategy that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group proposes that dating violence become broken down in RASI (Annual Report on Internal Security ), because what does not count is as if it did not exist and what does not exist cannot be combated. One in four young Portuguese consider dating violence a form of love and 23% of boys consider lower girls. This is intolerable and demonstrates the urgency of this strategy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u9	To present the draft resolution of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The crime of domestic violence is one of the most prevalent crimes in Portugal. In order to have an idea in 2015 there were about 27 000 occurrences throughout the national territory. This number represents an average concern of 73 occurrences per day. We are therefore faced with a huge social scourge with serious consequences at all levels for the victims, which deserves an adequate response. The legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence, the protection and assistance of its victims provides for the existence of victim support rooms as well as information to the victim at GNR and PSP teams. However, it is found that, in many teams, this victim service room is not yet a reality, and it is certain that, in the overwhelming majority of cases in which it exists, it does not present the appropriate conditions to receive these victims. The initiative presented by the NAP aims at the mandatory establishment of the victim support room in all GNR and PSP teams, and these rooms must present dignified conditions of service and where confidentiality is guaranteed in this moment of fragile emotional or physical state. Another very important aspect relates to the essential and appropriate training of GNR and PSP agents specifically directed to the care and follow-up of situations of domestic violence in order to have an agent enabled for this ongoing care in all teams in the country. Finally, and because the phenomenon exists, aggressor security agents cannot continue to be allowed to contact victims of domestic violence. There must therefore be a signaling and consequent removal of security agents aggressors from contact with victims of this crime.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u11	To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mrs Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: More than 450 women killed in 12 years and 526 attempted homicide—these are the tragic numbers of domestic violence in Portugal. In 2015, there were 26 815 security forces participations, i.e., on average, 73 per day and 3 per hour—these are the tragic numbers of domestic violence in Portugal. In more than one quarter of the recorded cases there were previous occurrences and close to 40% were seen by children—these are the tragic numbers of domestic violence in Portugal. According to the 2015 annual report on the monitoring of domestic violence — and I quote — « this was the first most reported crime at national level (... ), representing 7, 5 % of all crime registered by the police authorities, and was the most recorded crime in the context of crimes against people, representing 33 % of the crime recorded in this type ». Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, much has already been done, we must recognise it. Today, we have more sensitized and more prepared security forces and services for the care, support and follow-up of these victims. We have training agents, we have proximity teams and we have victim service rooms. A lot has been done, but it's not enough. The tragic numbers of domestic violence in Portugal clearly tell us that it is not enough. We have to do more and better. We must ensure that there are victim care rooms at all GNR posts and all PSP teams and, for that, the initiative that the Left Block presents today defends the strengthening of the creation of these structures where they are missing in order to ensure coverage throughout the national territory. But it is also essential to prevent and combat domestic violence and to ensure the care, support and quality referral to these victims, the training of the agents in this area. As important as the number of staff with specialized training is the quality of this training which is given in domestic violence and intervention in crisis. We therefore advocate the conduct of evaluations to assess the quality and effectiveness of this training. And because most of the participations and occurrences of this type of crime—as is also seen in the above-mentioned report—are occurring at night, in the morning and at weekends, times that do not always coincide with those of the specialized security forces teams, and also because they are the patrol teams who often contact, firstly, the victim and the aggressor, it is essential that these teams, or at least one element in each of these patrol teams, who is on the street and who responds to the calls, have specialized training. The cases of the transmission of incorrect information to the victims in the first contact are not uncommon and this can, of course, decisively condition the decision-making of the victim and the efficiency of its protection. Also because the specialized training in the area is absolutely decisive, as I have already said, for the capacity to protect victims, conditions must be created that enable the elements of the security forces to attend the training actions which are so often made available by organizations that intervene in the area of domestic violence and that they therefore congregate an invaluable ability to do in this area. Finally, because knowledge of the social reality, local and the linkage with other entities working in this area at local level is an advantage for intervention, it is recommended that measures be set up to integrate security forces into local and municipal networks to prevent and combat domestic violence at all locations where they exist and in the areas where security forces are involved. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u13	I ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputies, because you have outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u14	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must do more and better until there are no more these tragic numbers of domestic violence. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u15	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Despite the recognition that domestic violence has not been outside the political agenda and that legislative and administrative measures have been accumulated to seek to put an end to this barbarity, the truth is that acts of domestic violence, mostly largely continued, continue to victimise a very significant set of women. assumed as a serious violation of human rights and as a serious public health problem today it is recognized that domestic violence is a problem that society has to attack firmly and decisively, rejecting the idea that « between husband and wife does not get caught». The legislative changes that have been made have corresponded to this idea, particularly when the crime of domestic violence has become a public crime. Not being new, data from the Portuguese Association of Victim Support ( APAV ) confirm that the vast majority of victims seeking this Association due to domestic violence are female and the vast majority of male aggressors, and that the perpetrator of the crime is, above all, the spouse, the de facto union, or the former companion of the victim. The internal security reports confirm this reality: the PSP and GNR records show that the number of suspects or identified in domestic violence crime remains well above 20,000 per year. On the other hand, the media has repeatedly reported specific cases of murdered women even when their domestic violence cases were already reported to the authorities. It is necessary that the designated territorialization of the response is effective and increasingly strong in order to cover the entire national territory and to correspond to the objectives of preventing the crime of domestic violence and the dramas resulting from it. Protection and support for the victim are, in this context, determinants. There is no doubt that networking and therefore coordinated, in particular between entities with responsibility for civil protection, security agents, judicial authorities and non-governmental organizations, is essential for obtaining more effective responses. The bureaucracy of the victim's own support processes is also reported as an obstacle to seeking support. Another issue that is extremely important is the care of women victims of domestic violence by the security forces themselves. at this time, the victims are at a stage of great despair and emotional fragility, which implies that the response of the authorities is understandable, ready and effective. To this end, there is no doubt that the formation of GNR and PSP agents is an imperative as well as the privacy in the care, which, not existing, may discourage the victim from requesting the necessary help. Therefore, equiping the PSP teams and the GNR posts in the country of victim support rooms is not a matter of minor relevance. in this regard, Mr President, Mr Sr.s and Mr. Members, The Greens today come to propose to the Assembly of the Republic a recommendation to the Government to invest in strengthening the number of PSP and GNR agents with specific training for assistance and support to victims of domestic violence, in order to ensure that all teams are equipped with security agents with capacity and sensitivity to provide the necessary assistance. We also propose that the objective of providing all PSP teams and GNR posts of victim support rooms be taken into account, presenting to this effect a timetable, making it public, covering the entire national territory. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens also presented on Women's International Day another package of projects related to domestic violence,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u17	I wanted to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u18	... that we hope to schedule shortly, because we believe that this subject requires continued discussion and an effective presentation of proposals. [[Applause from the PS and PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u19	For an intervention, Mrs. Angela War has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating today a number of initiatives on strengthening the protection of victims of domestic violence, in particular by proposing that the Government should strengthen the establishment of care rooms in the premises of the security forces and the strengthening of investment in their specialized training. The continuing qualification of these professionals has been essential, promoting a more appropriate action with these victims so that they can rely on the existing support system and in order to reveal this type of crime that is about to remain invisible. in recent years, the previous constitutional government has assigned in its notorious programme priority to preventing and combating domestic and gender violence, a priority it has carried out with evidence, in particular, investing intensively in the formation of security forces, with a view to its best preparation to intervene in this matter, with the strengthening of the National Home Violence Support Network, with the introduction of emergency reception and the creation of a Retrospective Domestic Violence Analysis Team. Between 2012 and 2015, and according to the information reported by the security forces themselves, more than 10 000 elements of the PSP and more than 13 000 elements of the GNR received specific training, in addition to several dozen trainers who were prepared to continue to replicate training in cascade system. It was also promoted an important evaluative study, developed at national level, of the spaces used in PSP posts and GNR teams to assist victims of domestic violence. In our view, it is clear that improvements have been made over the past few years, and it remains to be seen whether the current government will continue to make the same level of investment in the formation of the security forces, since the answers of the Minister of Internal Administration on this matter have been quite ambiguous. As regards the creation of Victim Care Chambers and according to the 2015 Annual Internal Security Report, it turns out that « All new posts and teams currently have victim care rooms(...) ». (...) About 63 % of posts and teams — 274 in the GNR and 152 in the PSP — have specific rooms for service and in the rest there are rooms with the necessary conditions(...) ». however, and still according to the latest data, there are still facilities that do not meet this need. Continued investment in the formation of security forces, with a view to their best preparation to intervene in this sensitive area, is a priority to which continuity should be given and which, hopefully, should be strengthened either through security forces training actions or through the full coverage of the national territory with specific care rooms. Finally, a reference to the draft resolution submitted by the PS that recommends to the Government the breakdown in the Annual Internal Security Report of data on dating violence. As the processing of these fundamental data for the knowledge of this phenomenon, we reiterate here, which we have publicly said several times, i.e. that it is also necessary and essential that the RASI continue to disintegrate the marital homicides — data that have been autonomous since 2011 — and that, inexplicably, they have ceased to be included, autonomously, in the last Annual Internal Security Report already of the responsibility of this Government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u21	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: An important and long way has been made in combating domestic violence, and its recognition as a public crime is, in fact, a decisive milestone in the State's commitment to the protection of victims' rights, in its overwhelming majority women and children. However, despite all the measures taken over the years, domestic violence continues to mark, in a heinous way, the lives of so many families, from which this fight continues to demand commitments, wills and means in its many dimensions. All measures that prevent violence, inhibit its effects, protect victims and eradicate phenomena of aggression, humiliation and oppression must be taken. To this end, the State has the constitutional obligation to ensure adequate material and human resources, in training and sufficient numbers, so that, in the various dimensions of approach to this scourge, they act at the necessary time, either at the level of the justice system and the necessary professionals, whether these judicial or technical officials of the multidisciplinary teams supporting the courts, either at the level of criminal police bodies, social security in the monitoring of victims and children, and also ensuring the human resources at the level of child and youth protection committees.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u23	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u24	The effective guarantee of support and protection for victims is one of the social functions of the State. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We discuss today, among other matters, conditions of care for victims of domestic violence in security forces and services, among others, in the GNR and PSP. These professionals are almost always on the front line of contact with the victims, faced with situations of great tension and violence. It will certainly be fair to acknowledge the commitment and involvement of these professionals in combating domestic violence and protection of victims, in strengthening their specific training and in ensuring adequate and dignified conditions of care. It will also be rigorous to recognize that recent facilities already provide for adequate spaces for the care of all victims of violence and that important steps have been taken, which can and should be extended in the training of these professionals. It is true that there are still facilities both in the PSP and in the GNR that do not provide adequate material conditions for both professionals and victims themselves. This debate here is therefore important and the CFP is committed to its resolution. Nevertheless, we would like to say that with regard to the NAP initiative we have doubts and we believe that the risk of duplication of resources should be taken into account in the field of expertise. It is in Article 27. it is said that each security force and service must constitute its network of service offices specifically adapted for this purpose. Now, it happens that with this formulation « every force and security service» we are talking about the SEF, the Maritime Police, the prison guards and therefore we have doubts about the generic scope of this drafting, and therefore we believe that this matter should be guarded in the field of expertise...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u25	You've exceeded your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u26	I'm done now, Mr. President. In fact, there is today both the PSP level and the GNR level, the first line of contact with the victims, and this would lead to a risk of duplication of means. In conclusion, I just wanted to say that the CFP will always be on the side of those who intransigently defend the eradication of all forms of violence against women at all times and in all its dimensions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u27	For an intervention, Mrs Elza Pais has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, at this end of the debate, I would just like to say that all these draft resolutions reflect what is already being implemented by the Government: territorialization of actions, decentralization, strengthening of victim support services and strengthening of training. Therefore, your draft resolutions come to say that the government is on its way, but the government, in addition to everything that has been presented today, is going further because it is defining an integrated prevention strategy to combat the social reproduction of violence among the younger.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u29	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u30	And this is how it is avoided that in the future, the new generations abandon these attitudes of gender inequality, which make us very ashamed of these statistics that are presented to the country every year. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u31	Mr Vania Dias da Silva, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I would like to say that I am glad that the CDS has brought this matter to light. All people are united in saying that it is important to improve the conditions of care and now it is in the hands of the government to do so. Mrs Rita Rato, I would like to tell you that we have tried to prevent the risk of duplication because we have asked the Government to invent what is available to the government so that this risk can be prevented. The government now has all the conditions to do so, we hope it will. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u33	Mrs. Members, we turn to the second item on our agenda, which is generally the assessment of Bill No 291 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Conditions of health and safety at work in the security forces and services ( PCP ) together with draft resolution No 706 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the improvement of mental health conditions, in the working environment, in the security forces and services, by creating a programme to promote the psychological resilience of operators (NAP). You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Jorge Machado.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the representative structures of the security forces and services professionals present here and say that, as incredible as it may seem, the security forces and services in our country do not have a legal regime to prevent safety and health at work. Safety and health issues at the work of security forces and services such as PSP, GNR, PJ, Maritime Police, SEF and Prison Guard, cannot continue to be forgotten or relegated to the background.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u35	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u36	Regardless of the assessment that each party makes of the nature, missions and assignments of each security force and service, we will certainly agree: the professionals of these security forces and services have a profession with high levels of risk that should be cautious. Evidence of the high levels of risk to which these professionals are subject is, of course, demonstrated by the high levels of pressure and stress, and, among other indicators, by the dramatic number of suicides occurring in the security forces and services. But more than seeing this reality, it is important to act. For the PCP, it is clear that the establishment of safety and health conditions at work, together with the integration of all valences that are inherent to it, is a fundamental aspect to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the public service they provide, is the main tool in the prevention of occupational risks and in the fight against occupational weakness, aggravated when it comes to high risk activity, as happens in police activity. Among other measures, with this bill, the CFP aims to create mechanisms for identifying and evaluating occupational risks; establish the obligation to adopt measures to combat and prevent such risks, create information and training mechanisms and create a set of obligations and rights, always with the involvement of their professionals. Accountability, involving, conferring rights on these professionals in the field of health and safety at work is essential for the improvement of working conditions, health and operational effectiveness of security forces and services, and we therefore consider the adoption of this legal regime essential. It is unacceptable to maintain the current situation in which security forces and services professionals work without adequate monitoring, monitoring and, above all, prevention mechanisms. Obviously, the CFP is available to accept the contributions of the other parliamentary groups aimed at improving the diploma, with a clear awareness of the importance that the creation of this legal regime has for the security forces and services professionals. The CFP understands that it is time to move from words to acts, to expressions of appreciation and consideration, that we all have, by the professionals of the security forces and services, to give effective conditions of safety and health adequate for these professionals to perform their functions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u37	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u38	The PCP is, as it has always been, with the professionals, for more and better conditions for their professional exercise, which will result in more and better forces and security services for the populations. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u39	For an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The increase in the prevalence of mental disturbance in Europe and Portugal is worrying. Data from 2009 show that one in five Portuguese people suffered from psychiatric illness and about 43% had one of these disorders during their lifetime. The studies developed point to the effectiveness and potential of psychological intervention both in improving people's health status and relieving their suffering, as well as in reducing direct costs with health, by reducing the number of days of hospitalization and drug consumption, and indirect costs, by reducing absenteeism and increasing productivity. In the case of security forces and services, the conditions of mission performed, such as contact with potentially traumatic situations, risk of death and high levels of stress and anxiety, require permanent monitoring of the elements of these forces, which has not happened with the desired effectiveness. It is important to equip the professionals with tools that enable them to manage, in their daily lives, demobilization, stress and anxiety. Thus, since we understand that there is still much to be done in terms of preventive medicine, we recommend that two measures be taken. On the one hand, and so that the professionals of the security forces and services can have constant psychological monitoring, we propose the strengthening of the number of psychologists who follow those professionals, which, in the case of PSP and GNR, should correspond to at least one psychologist for each territorial command. On the other hand, we propose that a programme be set up to promote the psychological resilience of security forces and services operators, in order to equip the professionals with tools that enable them to learn how to deal with stress situations, reducing casualties due to professional disease, absenteeism and suicide, increasing productivity in fulfilling the mission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u41	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group recognises the relevance of the theme of the PCP bill under consideration. We simply believe that the project is not in line with the regulatory legal framework of the security forces, as they themselves know. The implementation of the bill would necessarily have high impacts on security forces, both at the organizational level and at the level of human resources management and also at the financial/budget level. A matter like this lacks much more depth with the security forces themselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u43	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u44	There is, therefore, a question of merit and an issue of opportunity here. It is true that the GNR military and PSP police personnel are excluded from the general safety and health promotion scheme at work. However, the status of the PSP provides in Article 21 thereof. the, which the police are entitled to benefit from preventive medical measures and actions and are subject to mandatory periodic medical examinations, whose assumptions, conditions, nature and periodicity are fixed by order of the national director. Also within the framework of the GNR status, already approved by the Council of Ministers, it is intended to give relevance to the matter under consideration by creating the military health booklet and being defined the mandatory actions of preventive medicine, aiming at the early detection of clinical pathologies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u45	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u46	in the project there are some procedures related to surveillance and submission to health tests that already integrate the program of preventive medicine in development in the GNR. The PSP presented in 2013 to the previous guardianship a draft diploma on safety, hygiene and health at work in the PSP, as well as the estimate of their implementation costs. Nothing has happened in the previous government and the PSP is currently reviewing and updating its proposal in relation to the existing regulatory framework. The diploma under examination creates parallel hierarchical structures that call into question cohesion and command unit at various levels. In other words, the project does not meet the specificities of the police in general and the security forces in particular that operate in dangerous environments, preventing, interrupting or helping to punish dangerous, illegal or unpredictable behaviors. Security forces have different forms of organisation and functioning, different assignments, different contexts of action, different regulatory diplomas, from their respective organic laws to staff statutes, particularities that must be duly analysed, in addition to the different areas of action as well as cases of service accidents, assistance in the disease, medical support for operational activity, occupational diseases or control and physical and health fitness, both at entry and stay and after discharge of functions, factors that should be taken into account in the preparation of a project of this nature.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u47	Well observed!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u48	Finally, with regard to suicides in the security forces, at the beginning of 2016 the suicide prevention plan in the security forces ( 2016 / 2020 ) was defined with prevention, intervention, rehabilitation and evaluation measures, which provides for a set of measures to ensure continued psychological support to police elements.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u49	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u50	Also at the beginning of 2016 a study on suicide prevention and self-sustainment behaviors in the security forces was commissioned, some recommendations were listed to the security forces for the prevention of suicide, in particular, and with this end, the increase of effectiveness of the areas of psychology and psychiatry in the security forces, the random tracing of alcohol consumption and other psychotropic substances and precautionary measures of disarmament and psychological reassessment of the effects. Part of these measures had already been integrated into the above plan and was already implemented in 2016.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u51	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u52	In conclusion, and I conclude, Mr President, there are major problems of adjusting the project to the legal framework of the security forces, to their own organization and operation, to what is already in force and to the costs associated with it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u53	Mr Sandra Cunha, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u54	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Workers and workers of the security forces and services are the only workers for whom the right to work in hygiene, safety and health conditions provided for in Article 59. that of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, has no kind of consequence, as it is, in fact, explained in the bill here under discussion. The specificities of the exercise of police activity have been argued to furnish these protection professionals guaranteed by measures to promote and prevent safety and health at work that benefit the other workers and workers in the public and private sectors. Now, as mentioned in the explanatory statement of this bill, and in the opinion of the Left Block, very precisely, « the need to ensure basic conditions of safety and health in police activities finds its most profound nature in the principle of protecting the dignity of the human person and in the principle of equal treatment ». We therefore agree that security forces and services officers are guaranteed rights in everything identical to those of other workers, so we welcome the bill that the CFP brings to debate in good time. The quality, which is desired, of the exercise of the activity of the security forces and services requires, in addition to the highest safety conditions at work, that all workers are of full health, physical and mental health. The protection conferred by preventive and restorative effects of access to health services at work is indisputable and can even be considered of added importance in the performance of functions that are so likely to enhance stressful and even traumatic experiences, as is the case with police functions. thus, we follow the justice contained in this bill, but we highlight some of the issues raised in the opinions that accompany this diploma and that we judge they deserve due attention. In particular, we stress the concern regarding the lack of knowledge of the identity of the entity to which the existence of an initial violation is to be measured as well as the need to provide for the same role and space to the clinical psychologist that is given to the doctor of work and, finally, the guarantee of the obligation that it is the knowledge of the worker or worker the integral content of his fitness card. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u55	Mr José Silvano, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we are discussing two legislative initiatives aimed at improving safety and health conditions in security forces and services. The CFP advocates the need for an autonomous legislative framework which provides for the regulatory provisions on safety and health at work for the security forces. The NAP recommends that the Government create a programme to promote the psychological resilience of security forces and services operators. in the foundation of these two initiatives are two serious and sad episodes—they themselves refer to it, in the explanatory statement—which are the high suicide rate within the PSP and GNR and the degrading and promiscuous image between prisoners and prison guards, in the Sintra Prison Establishment, which had recently had public visibility. It is urgent to reflect at this time on whether these legislative solutions are the best way to caution and prevent the fight against these two episodes that have occurred recently or whether specific, individualized legislation will be preferable, inserted into their respective professional statutes, taking into account their own characteristics and functional specificities. Furthermore, the CFP itself, the author of one of the initiatives, does not ignore that the specificities of police activity will require the adaptation of certain regulatory provisions in this area. Regarding the serious problem of increasing suicides in the security forces there is a suicide prevention plan in the Security Forces, which was reviewed and updated by the previous government and which ensures the access of security forces to the medical and mental health services of the National Health Service, through a system of reference and referral of professionals at risk. With regard to prison guards, the recent publication of the legal regime for carrying out tests, medical examinations and other appropriate means is another example of the resolution of these problems in specific legislation. The new GNR Statute also provides for and regulates preventive medicine. All this to conclude that all initiatives aimed at improving health and safety conditions in security forces and services are welcome, provided that they always bear in mind their specificity. More than new legislation is necessary and urgent to apply the existing legislation. In order for health and safety conditions to be effective, we must guard and strengthen inspection and supervision mechanisms, as well as the recruitment of skilled and properly qualified technicians. Finally, it should be noted that this CFP initiative has not included the budgetary costs to implement it, so it is also hurt by this omission and, not knowing the value necessary for its implementation, we can evaluate it as a specialist. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u57	For an intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The consecration of health and safety rules at work in security forces and services is, in theory, a good thing that we greet and welcome. Moreover, the question of suicides, which Mr Jorge Machado spoke about recently, is a very relevant and dramatic issue, in accordance with the words he has used and we also follow. We all know the poor working conditions of the security forces and services, we know of the problems faced every day by the security forces and services, arms with degraded infrastructure, with lack of technical and human resources, with difficulties in carrying out their mission. The CDS has always been concerned about defending security forces and services and has always been concerned about defending more and better means for security forces and services. And we do not, of course, have the exclusive of this, but we have certainly had an important role and we have evidence in this matter. however, we have some doubts about the practical formulation of these rules, for three reasons: firstly, because it is a very technical and dense matter that perhaps lacks more weight and a wider discussion, namely the pronunciation by the security forces and services, which we have not yet seen. On the other hand, there are issues that seem to us redundant, repeating the general regime already enshrined. So, sometimes, there may be angles here that, instead of improving, disturb and increase confusion. Finally, the third reason for some doubts is that this legislation seems to us to be somewhat bureaucratic. There seem to be some strict rules here which, in such a hierarchical structure as it is, and must be, those of the security forces and services, can bring more damage than benefits, so it seems important to us that more flexibility is introduced here. And that also deserves us, we understand, some reflection and weighting, although we consider that in fact it is necessary to create a specific regime consistent with the activity of security forces and services. We must raise two more questions, which have to do with the following: in addition to the practical question of harmonisation of a hierarchical structure with flexibility, which we believe we must introduce, there is the budgetary question. This has budgetary impacts and we would like to see if this was considered and if this implementation is possible. It is because legislation to have dead letters is not something we agree with and therefore it is important to see whether the budgetary impact of this legislation has been studied and whether it is guaranteed that all these rules can be implemented, which must be simplified. But we will not cease to make this initiative feasible. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u59	For a second intervention, Mr Jorge Machado has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I should like to regret a little bit about the intervention of the Socialist Party and the PSD in this area. There are always good excuses for not doing anything... To say that there is no appropriate framework, when there is an impact on security forces and services, and to talk about the financial impacts, when we are talking about standards of hygiene and safety at work, which are fundamental to the safety of professionals, and is at stake the lives of people, is regrettable and it is an excuse for those who do not want to do anything. What we are proposing is the creation of a system that uses vocational training, knowledge and the transmission of information within the structure itself, without external costs to promote the necessary prevention. And the truth is that there are not enough measures in the field of prevention, health and safety at work. The high levels of suicides in the security forces and services are dramatic proof that we have to do something. And to say that it's all right and that there is no need to move forward with any measure, in our opinion, it is regrettable. We therefore appeal here that, in the vote, there be good sense to move forward with a legal system of prevention and health at work, which exists for the private sector, which exists in many sectors of the Public Administration, but which does not exist in the security forces and services. Do we or do we not agree that the security forces and services professionals perform a high-risk profession? Yes, we are! No one here is in a position to say that they do not have high professional risks. So we're going to create the legal regime that takes care of these professional risks. What's at stake here is life, it's security, it's the health of these professionals! So we make the appeal to make sense, I repeat, and to leave...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u61	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u62	... for the discussion in the specialty, in order to effectively create a legal regime that is not only necessary as this need is felt by the professionals themselves, who ask for it, who demand it and who have also participated in the construction of this initiative that was presented by the CFP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u63	Mrs. Members, the Bureau no longer registers on this point of our agenda, so the general debate on draft law No 291/ XIII ( 1 ) is closed. ( a ) together with draft resolution No 706 / XIII ( 2. ( a). We turn to the joint assessment of draft resolutions Nos 602 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government combat school dropout in higher education ( PSD ), 696 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to combat dropout in higher education ( PCP ), 698 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote measures to combat dropout in higher education ( CDS-PP ), 699 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government study on failure and abandonment in higher education to better define policies to combat these phenomena ( PS ), 707 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen support measures for higher education students as a form of combating school dropout ( NAP) and 709 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Measures to deepen social action mechanisms and to combat school dropout in higher education ( BE ). To begin the debate, Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If there is a matter of consensus between all parties with parliamentary seats, it is to combat school dropout. On 6 January, the PSD entered the diploma that we are discussing today and which defends the promotion of success and the serious fight against school dropout. This diploma results from a long weighting process: we sent requests to higher education institutions; we heard academic associations and federations; we studied the problem, we discussed solutions and today we discussed this diploma. Higher education and, in particular, the guarantee of frequency conditions of this level of education is an area in which the PSD has evidence given, either in the government or in the opposition. Now, as before, we continue to believe in education as the best way for people, the final end of our political action, to leave the vicious cycle of poverty and be the example of social mobility that the PSD defends. Thus, the fight against dropout is essential for the extension of the social base with higher education and for the increase in the average level of qualification of Portuguese. The first objective of this parliamentary initiative is to contribute to the definition of prevention and intervention strategies in order to prevent these situations from occurring in the future, but also to raise awareness of society for the problem, making this fight a priority for Portugal. Due to the severity and complexity of this problem, over the past few years, the PSD/CDS-PP government has implemented responses, such as the Retomar Programme, to promote the return to higher education, as well as improved, and much, the Social Action Fellowships Regulation, increasing the number of scholarship students. In 2013 a working group formed by the CRUP ( Board of Directors of Portuguese Universities) concluded that there are several reasons that lead to school dropout: issues of a vocational nature, difficulties in meeting the level of demand for higher education, difficulties in time management and time load, demotivating from the greedy expectations, lack of basic training, perception of difficulty in employability in some areas, economic difficulties, entry into the labour market, among other reasons. in practice, abandonment is often the accumulation of a set of factors: economic factors, problems in training that go back to basic and secondary education, academic difficulties, job prospects or vocational doubts. The result of all these factors is frustration, discouragement and, in many cases, abandonment. The philosophy of prevention plays a central role in combating school dropout and Parliament today has the opportunity to define this issue as a priority, not only in its speeches, but above all in its political action. That is why we advocate that the problem should be studied better, creating comparable metrics, and that the Retomar Programme should be recovered. We defend that the Government is presenting a thorough and rigorous report on dropout in higher education and that a strategy is being developed to enable workers-students to better reconcile their professional life with academic requirements. We defend that alert mechanisms are developed in the institutions for indicators of potential abandonment, such as absenteeism, poor school use, timeless payment of tips, among others, ensuring an appropriate link between social action services and academic services. We want answers to be developed that improve vocational and professional monitoring and guidance, promoting a better fit of students' expectations. We demand that greater efficiency and timely payment of scholarships be promoted, preventing missing students from waiting for several months for the support that is due them. There are still nearly 10,000 students waiting for scholarships in higher education today. This project first arises from the concern of PSD with students and their families. It emerges because we believe in the rise in the socio-educational levels of Portuguese and because we have the firmest conviction that it is improving the life of each Portuguese who improves the life of Portugal. [[PSD and CDS-PP MP Ana Rita Bessa applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u65	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The costs with higher education represent a very important part of the budget of the majority of Portuguese families, in a context where, due to the serious economic and social crisis with which the country was faced, the living conditions of families suffered a brutal deterioration. In fact, confronting families with the payment of very high costs inherent in the access and frequency of higher education of their children, especially when families have already paid these costs through their taxes, means that thousands of students are at risk of their right to access, attend and succeed in higher education institutions. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u67	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the drop-out of many students, regardless of who wants the attempt to ignore or squamble, is a dramatic reality that is, every day, proven by many young people and realizes an intolerable social backwardness, clearly demonstrating the growing elitist to which this degree of education is being voted, the result of political options of various governments. It is a fact that the obligation to pay tips, fees and emoluments, together with a huge limitation and insufficiency of school social action, whether direct or indirect, are highly penalizing elements for students and for economically and socially more vulnerable families and irrefutablely distance students from higher education institutions. For the CFP, there is an imperative need not only to extend the number of scholarship students, but also to increase the value of scholarships, in fact, almost exclusively used for the payment of tips,... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u68	... in addition to the inadmissible need to strengthen indirect social action by, inter alia, reducing the cost of meals, transport, material, university residence. The CFP believes that the State must be responsible for the appropriate funding of the institutions to comply with the constitutionally enshrined right of access to and success of school for all students and at all levels of education, especially at the highest levels, and not allow thousands of young people to leave higher education due to economic deficiencies. With this draft resolution, the CFP recommends to the Government the preparation of the annual report on dropout in higher education and the socio-economic characterization of students with access to social action support in school. We also recommend a prospective study and a subsequent plan to build a network of university residences that meet the specific needs of scholarship students or displaced persons. Finally, we pointed out the need to carry out a study of the actual expenses of students and their families and, as a result of this study, to strengthen social action at school, either by increasing the number of students covered by scholarships, or by raising their value. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is the commitment by which the CFP will continue to beat itself, in defending the right of access, of frequency and of school success in teaching for all, but even for all, students and not only those who have income to pay for it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u69	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The fight against school dropout is one of the major challenges of the education system, whether in higher education or in higher education, and it is in the latter that we stop today. It is an educational, social, economic and also political problem and has concrete consequences in people's lives, particularly from the point of view of employability, in a direct relationship with the least likely access to the labour market and the greater likelihood of access to precarious jobs or lower wage levels. The Europe 2020 strategy, with which Portugal has committed itself, defined the target of 40 % of the graduated population in higher education at the age of 30 to 34 years. And we are still far from achieving this goal, although there has been a positive development of 12, 9 % in 2002 to 31, 9 % in 2015. Combating school dropout is a very important part of this path, but it has to be attacked from its real causes and not from perceptions strictly based on party agendas. So we have to go to the facts. First: a working group formed in 2013 by the CRUP (Council of Rectors of Portuguese Universities) and also by the leaders of the federations and academic associations and students concluded that abandonment has, in fact, several factors in its genesis, as the PSD has already mentioned — issues of vocational order, difficulties in meeting the level of demand, difficulties in time management and time load, demotivating generated by frustrated expectations, lack of basic training, perception of difficulty of employability in some courses and finally economic difficulties.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u71	Finally!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u72	Second: the Student Association Movement itself, in Do Not Desist! — The Guide to Good Practices in Higher Education, published in 2016, essentially points to the same reasons for school dropout and exactly this order of relevance. Third: a 2015 report by the Directorate-General for Higher Education, which analysed the course of about 62 000 dollars that entered universities and politics in 2011, concluded that the percentage of students leaving the studies is much higher among those who enter with low means – almost 40% of students who entered the university with an average of 10 values ended up giving up the course. There are also great differences between those who access through the general regime and those who enter through the special regime, such as candidates over the age of 23. in the general scheme, the withdrawal rate is 7, 8 %, while in the special schemes it reaches values of 30 %. While not forgetting that the motivations for abandonment are not only of an economic nature and that many of the initiatives will necessarily be the responsibility of higher education institutions themselves, within the framework of their pedagogical autonomy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u73	Autonomy without money is no good for anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u74	... we have sought to present a set of recommendations to the Government, which can be effective, namely : follow-up to Resolution No 60 / 2013 of the Assembly of the Republic, for the publication of an annual report on access and dropout in higher education, from which analyses can be carried out, infer explanatory variables and establish intra- and inter-institutional comparisons ; provide updated data on the Infocourses portal, so that candidates and students can take informed vocational options and thus not see their expectations frustrated; promote a network of student support offices for vocational guidance and follow-up training; study changes to the status of worker-student that allow effective compatibility between professional life and academic life;... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u75	... re-establish a financial incentive programme for the return of « older than 23 » to higher education;... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u76	... ensure conditions for payments of school social action grants to occur in a timely manner; restore a public student credit mechanism, similar to the mutual guarantee loan system established by Decree-Law No 309 -A / 2007 and currently suspended. The CDS understands that only with full information and concerted action between the guardianship, the CRUP, the CCISP (Coordinator Council of the Higher Institutes Polytechnics ) and the student movements will effectively combat school dropout, its multiple causes, its prevention and its effective reduction. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u77	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Batista.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The qualification represents the cornerstone of any development project that is intended to be sustained. We believe that the prosperity of a nation is based on its ability to design and implement appropriate policies to promote the knowledge of its people. over the last years, several narratives have been tested around financial deficits, obsessively involved in fatalistic and guilty ditames. Mrs. Members, the Gordium node to the sustained economic development of Portugal and the realization of a society more equitable and prepared for the challenges of globalisation, the real structural deficit of the nation is the lack of qualifications of Portuguese. Today we are discussing a set of six initiatives focusing on the causes and consequences of failure and dropout. It is up to me to remember that this fight poses a challenge that transcends our borders. The Europe 2020 strategy, ratified by our country, includes in its assumptions the need for 40 % graduates between 30 and 34 years of age at this time horizon. However, data obtained in 2015 put us far below this larger design. This is a theme of greater importance, capable of generating broad consensus in this Chamber. Dear colleagues, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group believes that failure in school, being indelibly affected by the lack of resources, is not exhausted from these. We know that school social support plays a central role in promoting school success. in this sense, the current government believes that the misbursation of the award of grants is a fundamental step. Thus, in the context of the Simple 2016 programme, with the measure Scholarships + simple, the Government decided to expedite the process of analysis and allocation so that the student does not wait so long for the decision and receipt of the grant, because delays harm their working and living conditions. Particularly significant, therefore, will be the transition from the renewal, necessarily annually, of the grant to the allocation of the grant for the whole period of the course. by giving stability to the pedagogical projects of each student we will allow them to focus on essentially: the pursuit of their school success. Dear colleagues, a serious study on dropout and failure in higher education should include, in addition to the socio-economic dimension of each student, their personal and cognitive perception, the degree of commitment with the institution and the course, the real influence of the tips on the removal of students, the effect of perception of employability, as well as the effectiveness and efficiency of social action in school, direct and indirect. Knowing that this is a multifactorial problem, a partial analysis is not only counterproductive as it will induce erratic and wrong options. It is therefore essential to characterize, define and implement. An integrated approach is essential to the development and subsequent implementation of policies that are more realistic, capable of promoting higher levels of social equity. Mrs. Members, this is a process that should enhance the coordinated work of the various institutions involved, in particular the Council of Rectors of the Portuguese Universities, the Council of Coordinators of the Political Higher Institutes and, no less important, of the representative associations of the student movement. Only by promoting this involvement will we be able to systematize the various studies produced, induce the sharing of experiences and encourage the creation of synergies between the different institutions. Mr President, we know that the fight against school failure and dropout in higher education is central to promoting more growth, more employment and more equality. Because the qualification of Portuguese is a pillar of our policy, because in Portugal we are building no one can stay behind, we believe that this is the most effective way to reduce inequalities and make Portugal better. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u79	Mr André Silva has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The State should ensure that no one is deprived of access to higher education for reasons of economic insufficiency. At this level, it is of particular relevance to the award of scholarships that, despite their importance, do not yet have the desired configuration. The NAP project, which we are discussing today, aims to introduce changes to the current stock exchange allocation system, making it faster, more efficient and inclusive. To this end, we are making six proposals here today. First: in order to avoid delays in the process, students should be encouraged, in conjunction with higher education institutions, to clarify the process and conditions for award of scholarship, in particular the documentation necessary for the application. Second : a mechanism must be set up to allow pocketholders, who apply for the new grant in the following year, to have automatically renewed support, provided that the same conditions are maintained. Third: in order to avoid delays in the allocation and payment of the grants, mechanisms should be created that give greater speed to the process. Fourth : the regulation and award of grants should be amended in order to allow access to this support for students enrolled in the course of studies leading to the degree of Doctor who, in a situation of lack or economic insufficiency, do not receive support through research grants. Fifth : the change in the criteria for awarding scholarships should be considered, in particular those relating to the income of the family and the value of the real estate, allowing access to more students in a situation of economic shortage. Sixth and final: in order to allow for more rigorous allocation of scholarships, greater supervision of social action services should be carried out, reducing fraud situations and ensuring that access to these support is intended only for those who truly need it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u81	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Until the beginning of the new century, the recruitment of students from different social, cultural and territorial backgrounds was extremely significant. While in 1960 the number of students was around 25 000, in 1997 / 98 this quantity amounted to more than 220 000 students in higher education. however, since we cannot speak of a genuine democratization of access to public higher education, it is undoubtedly relevant to provide students with less resources with the realization of articles 73. o is 74. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. In other words, it is important that social inequalities do not translate into school inequalities. The worst, however, is the finding of the relative differential weight of these charges for the different social classes. In many cases, and as is general knowledge, students from families with park resources are obliged to work part-time or even full-time in precarious, disqualified and disqualifying jobs, where they are exploited as labor force. Consequently, cases of school failure and significant dilatation of the time required for completion of these courses are frequent, increasing the ineffectiveness and expenditure of the system. Over the last few years, particularly in the years of PSD/CDS governance, testimonies and voices have multiplied that reported situations of serious economic shortage experienced by an increasing number of students in higher education. To date, there is no official data on this silent abandonment due to the refusal of that same Government to make them available, despite any subsequent request for such a release. However, the estimates of dropout in advanced higher education either by student associations or by social communication indicate to us values never mentioned before: between 2011 and 2015, there was a 25% reduction in enrolment in higher education. The data disclosed by RAIDES (registration of students enrolled and graduates of higher education) are also of concern. in 2015, for example, the number of students leaving their degrees is around 11, 8 % in university education and 12, 6 % in politics only in the first year of registration. The current insufficiency of school social action has also contributed actively to the removal of thousands of students from their academic course. The proposals presented here are aimed at responding to these problems. More technical contracts are needed to examine applications for social action grant. It is important that the Ministry abide by what is in the State Budget, create a national table of fees and emoluments, proposed by the Socialist Party, which do not apply punitive measures, including pedagogical measures, in access to recourse phases in examinations and that there are more vacancies in university residences for those students who, as a result of real estate speculation, do not find a response in the offer of the most populous cities. We also find equipment, schools and residences, suitable for use by students with disabilities. It is also important to freeze the increase in the value of passwords and residences. Nor can we emphasise today's debate on dropout, because it seems right or right...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u83	Fight school dropout!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u84	... « turn the kiss to the nail»! For four years he did not have a single number on dropout. [[That's not true, sir! That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u85	In fact, it was the PSD and CDS parliamentary groups themselves who presented written questions to the PSD/CDS government itself asking for school dropout numbers, but the right-wing government did not even answer them.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u86	That's not true, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u87	Extraordinary, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! That's extraordinary!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u88	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u89	It is important, now with a new majority, that they come back to the game with proposals, because higher education needs them. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u90	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, of the Greens Ecological Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think this is one of the ideal debates for many Portuguese people to question why they pay taxes. In fact, we must pay taxes so that the State gives us certain services, which we, the whole population, can use, regardless of the economic condition. That is why people should pay taxes according to their ability to contribute: who has the most paid, who has the least paid less.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u92	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u93	That's why only a few have purses!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u94	But the truth, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the answer is this: the taxes we pay, and not too little, serve to pay the interest on the debt, serve to refer us to the banks. Then there are still those offshore scenarios, that scenario of financial operations that are not taxed or - in insufficiently, that scenario of a European Union that has liquidated our productive activity and our ability to generate wealth through those successive governments that have made us increasingly dependent on the outside. And then what happens? There is so much negative in Portugal, such as the inability of many families to study in higher education, and there is the dramatic reality that is the abandonment of higher education, as well as many other dramatic realities. So let's make it clear: propines are a dissuasive element for the frequency of higher education, because there are many families that do not have the ability to make that payment.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u95	This is the next debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u96	You are saying that this is the next debate, but everything has to do with everything.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u97	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u98	And I'm going to the bags! What are you guys talking about? Members argue that there is social action at school, there are the scholarships for those who cannot pay. Wrong! Mr Duarte Marques knows that many missing students do not have access to scholarships for higher education,... [[Got 'em!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u99	... because the criteria are formulated in such a way that they do not cover all those who need support for the frequency of higher education.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u100	Tell me one!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u101	But there's more!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u102	Tell me one!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u103	The grant of scholarship, even for those entitled to it, often serves only, uniquely, for the payment of the tips, but then there is a whole set of costs in higher education which are sent only to families who cannot bear, in particular transport, residences, food, school materials, manuals and out there.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u104	They're in the government, settle!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u105	So either we have fallen into reality or we continue to pretend that this drama does not exist, and then we will not find the right solutions for its resolution. In fact, it was very confusing in the previous legislature when we brought the matter of abandonment of higher education to see that many families brought these complaints to the Assembly of the Republic. That is, given the pay cuts, the cuts in pensions, the brutal increase in taxes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u106	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u107	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I said, given the pay cuts, the cuts in pensions, the brutal increase in taxes, the families had much less conditions to support their youth's frequency in higher education, and the abandonment, in fact, was dramatic at that time. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, The Greens are associated with all the proposals that have contributed to the eradication and minimization of this drama, which is indeed the inability of many young people to attend higher education. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u108	For a second speech, Mrs Ana Virgínia Pereira has the floor, to whom I ask to pay attention only to the short time available.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u109	Mr President, I would like to say to Members Margarida Balseiro Lopes and Ana Rita Bessa that are welcome to concerns about dropout,... [[Mr Duarte Filipe Marques's laughs.]] ... concerns that did not have or at least did not inform us of each time you were questioned when they were in government. Ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to leaving school, paying tips and all the costs associated with education, we are talking about the withdrawal of a right that families have to be compensated for these costs that they should not have, even because, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the families are paying them twice. Why? Because they pay taxes, and the taxes have to serve...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u110	It's for the bank!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u111	...to ensure that all students have the right provided for in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u112	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u113	I'm done now, Mr. President. That is what it is, a right, and therefore we have nothing to ask of anyone. The autonomy of the institutions, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you don't do without money, and this has to go from state. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u114	Mrs. Members, the discussion of draft resolutions Nos 602 / XIII ( 2 ) is concluded. ( a ) ( PSD ), 696 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PCP ), 698 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( CDS-PP ), 699 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PS ), 707 / XIII ( 2. a ) ( PAN) and 709 / XIII ( 2. a ) ( BE ). We then moved on to point 4 of the agenda, which consists in the assessment of draft resolutions Nos 572 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Multi-annual plan for the end of propines in public higher education institutions ( BE) and 692 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends the end of the tips in public higher education ( CFP ). To begin the debate on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We cannot begin this debate without welcoming the structures of the student associative movement, which represent more than 100 000 students and which have demanded the end of the existence of tips in higher education. The central debate regarding mechanisms of social action in higher education is whether they allow them to combat dropout and support students with financial difficulties.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u116	Mr. Luís Monteiro, please excuse me for interrupting you, but I want to ask the honourable Members. Members to sit down and create conditions so that you can be heard with respect. Please continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u117	Thank you, Mr. President. Maintaining the current policy of propines, we are in fact faced with a problem of sustainability of the higher education system itself as a factor in combating inequalities and promoting social mobility. According to the Education at a Glance2015 report, public funding for higher education in Portugal is the least representative in Europe and the OECD, it is only 54 % that the remaining 46% are responsible for families and students. The average value in the European Union is 78, 1 % and in the OECD countries is 69, 7 %. These data prove, contrary to what was said when implementing the policy of tips in higher education, in the 90s of the last century, that the tips do not serve to improve the quality of teaching, but are today a resource to pay salaries and current expenses of the institutions. The tips are an obstacle to any democratic and inclusive higher education system. By not abdicating this position of principle, it is urgent to take mitigating measures to limit pressure on students and their families, ensuring their stay in the teaching system. There are thousands of young people who fail to equalize the hypothesis of entering higher education because of the obvious difficulties in paying more than 1000 € of tips per year. Although social action mechanisms can be improved, this does not solve the basic problem. The State, as far as higher education is concerned, is not complying with the constitutional requirement which determines its duty to « progressively establish the freeness of all degrees of education ; » — Article 74 ( e ). the Constitution. The very spirit of the Constitution is very clear as a guarantee of equal opportunities, passes through a State financing public services, and thus only a universality and progressive freeness of teaching is achieved. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate on the end of the tips is on the agenda and it is urgent to take concrete steps to avoid progressive commercialization of higher education and the exclusion of students with greater economic difficulties. It is for all those and those who are entitled « For a higher education free of tips» today to take a position on what is on the table: a multi-annual plan to exchange the investment that is made today by the student for funds from the State budget. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u118	To present the draft resolution of the PCP, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I begin by asking a few questions. What can we tell all the students who have now gone through 12 years of compulsory education, who have worked so hard, who have spent so much, often much more than they could, trying to enter higher education, trying to break up with social papers that seem to be previously reserved, but who can't get because they don't get the money?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u120	There's the school social action!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u121	What can you tell who can't even think about it at the end of your journey? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are many and many students who cannot even think of applying for public higher education; many others leave because they cannot afford to pay props and frequency costs. The biggest problem that public higher education has faced in our country is the choice of a policy of right, elitist and progressive privatization, led by successive governments, and there are two deep and obvious consequences of this political option: the underfunding of institutions by the State and the increase in the costs borne by students and their families. Recent studies have marked Portugal as the fifth country in the world where it is most expensive to study in higher education, alongside countries such as the United States, Japan or Mexico, paying Portuguese families, on average, in more than €6600 per year with different props and costs of frequency. The expenditure of families with education increased sharply in the last decade — recalling the last four years of the previous government — and in higher education grew at a higher rate than annual average inflation. The existence of propins is, in itself, an instrument of elitisting and mercantilization of higher education, a mechanism that objectively favours private business of education. This instrument, always presented in the pretext of budgetary constraints, aims at disresponsibility of the State in relation to the higher education of citizens and the right of access and frequency of the highest levels of education, promoting an increasingly mercantilized functioning of the higher education system. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the basic position of the Portuguese Communist Party lies in the understanding that teaching, in all its degrees, as stated in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, is a right, it is not a business, it is not a market. The PCP defends an alternative, patriotic and left-wing policy that breaks with constraints, whether internal or external, that allows the revitalization of public higher education and its consideration as a fundamental public service, not only for the individual but for our people, for our country, for its functioning and sovereignty. The basic law of higher education funding is an obstacle to the democratization of education in Portugal and only its profound review can lead to a real change in a sense of progress for all. However, we cannot fail to do the discussion at this time and propose to the Assembly of the Republic, from now on, the end of the tips in public higher education institutions, strengthening the funding of universities and politicians through the State budget, in a country whose Constitution enshrines the freeness of education at all levels. We propose a higher education policy to ensure that the State assumes its responsibilities for financing higher education institutions. We defend a truly left-wing political option, which guarantees respect for the Constitution and a left-wing policy in the financing of public higher education. So we defend the end of the tips and a real freeness, also eliminating fees, emoluments and other expenses that cost families and their students. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u122	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss two draft resolutions, one from the Left Block and another from the PCP, in this already common proof of life when they are not in harmony with the government they support. The theme is the end of the tips in higher education. in fact, it's not really the end of the tips, because the time of this radicalism goes far away. The Left Block and the PCP are becoming moderate parties, since they really do not have the strength to enforce their agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u124	Well? Oh, my God! One day we're communists, another we're moderate? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u125	We are therefore dealing today with multiannual plans for the end of the pro grammes. We do not follow this discussion and do not follow it because it is simply not serious and it is not consistent. Otherwise we see: when in November we discussed the State budget, both the Left Block and the CFP, when structural decisions are taken, with financial impact, what have they proposed? Was it the end of the tips? Don't! at that time, in order to enable the State budget — and now the government — only proposed freezing the maximum value.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u126	Go away, the CDS...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u127	Of course, now, safe from this risk, they make a living and mark their agenda and position. But is that a serious, committed and consequent act? It's not! And it's not why? Because still this week, at the regimental hearing, Minister Manuel Heitor said that the debate on the law on the basis of higher education funding is not in the Government Programme and is not in the joint positions with the parties on the left. And that is not new, because in November, the Minister for Science, Technology and Higher Education had already said: "My position is not at first to cut off the propines in the current context of economic contraction".
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u128	Mal!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u129	Therefore, in a context where legislative contracts are concluded with higher education institutions, in which the State Budget has been frozen for three years and in which it is systematically said by the Minister that there is underfunding of the system today, it is not realistic to make these proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u130	The CDS wants to increase its props!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u131	It would be more useful and consequential than the honourable Members. Members were concerned about the gigantic delay in the school social action scholarships,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u132	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u133	... that makes about 10 000 students still waiting for the scholarship today, and instead of proposing political positioning measures, they proposed concrete solutions for those who need it most. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u134	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Susana Amador.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One of the most significant commitments of the Socialist Party is the extension of the social base and the democratization of higher education in our country, because we regard public higher education as a right of all citizens, as reflected in our Constitution. The Socialist Party has, throughout its history for education and higher education, a path that speaks for itself and which rests on freedom, in the valorization of education as a mechanism of economic, social and cultural development and in the promotion of conditions of access to public education, in the firm defense that all students should be able to access higher education, regardless of their economic condition. Because we need a robust, quality higher education, with autonomy and a motor of progress, it has been a nuclear concern of the Government and the Socialist Party to give a horizon of stability and financial predictability in State relations with higher education institutions. The legislative contracts concluded in July 2016 between the Government and higher education institutions gave shape to this programmatic aspiration and so necessary, opening up a path of commitment, trust and ambition. These contracts have very concrete commitments that aim to raise quality levels in the performance of higher education, in a framework of increasing demand and of strong national and international competitiveness, which requires institutional rejuvenation, consolidation of scientific employment, combating dropout and failure to school, which results, in fact, from the National Reform Plan, in a framework of progressive expansion of higher-level training to more diverse groups of the population and which implies the necessary recruitment by 2019 of 3000 teachers and researchers at our universities and higher public policy institutes. We are therefore, ladies and gentlemen, before a compromise agenda that involves mutual trust between those involved and stability in the assumptions, so that their goals are fully met, so we cannot introduce measures in this framework, such as the short-term elimination of the tips, which harm the commitments assumed and whose impacts would clearly compromise those goals that are intended to be achieved and which are so beneficial to our students, to the teaching system and to the country. in the context of this enlargement of democratization of higher education, we have been modernizing and adapting to new contexts, strengthening direct school social action and indirect school action with the transfer of adequate public funding to universities and politicians, to ensure food, housing and transport services. The State budgets of 2016 and 2017 competed to reverse the deceleration path of investment in higher education and strengthened the funds for public higher education and scholarships in higher education. Mrs. Members, the new system of simplification in the allocation of social action grants in higher education will give efficiency, simplification and stability gains in the course of the student and greater agility, when the shortage of these students requires urgency. We recognize that propines represent a relevant value for families and a weight for their budget, but we have not been real, we have been working on it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u136	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u137	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. We have proposed a phased system for the payment of tips already in this Parliament, frozen the maximum value, strengthened social support and action measures, but we cannot create imbalances greater than those we want to correct. In conclusion, the extension of the social base of higher education must be widely seen, in a whole, since it must be progressively, balanced and continued, in an open and plural debate, such as what we are doing. Finally, I would like to say that our proposals are, above all, on the qualification of the new generations, on the necessary reduction of inequalities, but we cannot abdicate from a sustainable financial context.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u138	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u139	Mr President, this is a challenge for all, a challenge that is always urgent. This will be our path, a fair path, with the light of knowledge for all, a more equal path and, therefore, will be the path of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u140	Mr Duarte Filipe Marques has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As regards social action at school, for some parties, students, the fight against the tips and for more rights for students and social action at school is not a slogan. We have heard here the previous debate and, just to remember what facts are facts, I must say that, in the last four years, despite all austerity: the average scholarship paid to students has increased €200 ; it has added one month to the grant supplement for residences; the late payment days have been reduced, but this government has already increased - because we already have 10,000 students waiting (it is a socialist tradition! ) ; and we also increase the income threshold for which students can apply for scholarship, it is 850 € of people's income. That is why more than 5,000 students have access to the scholarship over the past year, because the rules have changed, and this is the work of such austerity government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u142	Well remembered! [[Protests by PCP MP Ana Mesquita.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u143	You arrive at the government and students are just a slogan, nothing more. The Left Block and PCP have been fighting for 10 or 20 years at the end of the tips; they always presented bills in the Assembly of the Republic. Now that they are in power, they present draft resolutions, which is for that to be not effective. They've already had a chance to get rid of the propines. They had to vote for two State budgets, which they negotiated. If they did not put the end of the tips there, nor the increase in higher education, it was because they did not want to, it was because it was not a priority. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u144	And what is the PSD position? Tell me!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u145	That's hypocrisy! They walk on the street against the propines and when they get here they're no longer against the propines. They make a circus number! [[PSD applause.]] It's just a conversation that students think you're really worried about the end of the tips, because now that they have power, they don't. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] And the Socialist Party is no better. The Socialist Party goes to universities, goes to debates and conferences and says: « We are by the end of the tips». But then he comes here and he doesn't look like it, ask the honourable Member to speak, because it is no longer against the end of the promenade, here he wants tips. You have to decide, can't be government in the morning and opposition in the afternoon! That doesn't work! [[Protests by PCP MP Ana Mesquita.]] You have been in the government for more than a year, if you want to put an end to the pro grammes, propose and vote in favour of it. They demand this from the government, because the rest is only theatre and hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u146	Exactly! [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u147	Go to the street with slogans, but come here, shake your hand in your chest and, after all, lower your balls! That doesn't make sense! [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u148	If they want to be consistent, they have to give value to what they say on the street. Here they can't lie to the Portuguese: either they're against the propines, or they're for the propines! They can't have one position on the street and another one on the inside. [[Protests from the PCP and the Greens.]] For you gentlemen, the end of the tips is just a slogan! PSD is in favour of propines, in power and opposition! It's consistent! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] That is why we increase the scholarships of social action in school, in power and opposition, for students who have no money. But you gentlemen don't, they just do circus! And it's because of these things that people no longer believe in parties. We are in favour of the increase in scholarships, and that is why we increase them by 200 €, on average, per year and per student. That's how students are compensated with more or less difficulties, it's not going to say something out there and something else in here. We are consistent! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u149	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor, to whom I ask to pay attention to the time left.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the PSD and the CDS it is easy: it is claimed that there is no money or that, when there is money, it is used in other things such as paying interest on a debt that, in its current terms, is unfair and unpaid. And then there are no rights, it is over! The Constitution of the Portuguese Republic says one thing, but you think they are in favour of the tips and then there are no rights. We are very sorry, but that is not the position of the CFP. We defend the Constitution, we defend a free teaching at all its levels,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u151	Less in the State budget!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u152	...we defend the right of everyone to access the highest levels of education. [[PCP applause.]] In fact, we have nothing to do with the PSD in this chapter. We're consistent. The position we stand for is in principle and is always the same: we are against the existence of propines. Let this be clear!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u153	Present a bill!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u154	For us, the broadest way of looking at higher education is to ensure access and frequency to all, with the fair and appropriate funding of higher education institutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u155	It's just conversation!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u156	This is our position of principle, we are committed to it and we will always fight for the end of the tips. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u157	You're from the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u158	To close the debate, Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is extraordinary that the PSD can spend 3 minutes trying to dismantle the argument of those who defend the end of the tips to say: « Yes, yes, you are consistent with 25% of the students who have given up higher education during your legislation, during your government, because you are actually in favour of the policy of propines». [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] « And they are not only convivient as they have no answer to the problem of higher education underfinancing ». [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] The Member of the CDS said that there is a chronic underfunding of higher education.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u160	Mr. Minister said it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u161	It's true, it's true! But the money the CDS spent on submarines was enough to pay for the degree of all higher education students,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u162	Look at the despair!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u163	...of all high school students! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u164	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u165	I will finish, Mr. President. So on political survival, we are talking. Those are choices.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u166	in the State Budget they did not choose!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u167	The CDS chose to buy submarines and the right decided to save the Banco Espírito Santo. We are here to fight for a higher education free of propines. We already know that we do not count on the right, but that is no novelty in the debate. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u168	Mrs. Members, the assessment of draft resolutions Nos 572 / XIII ( 2 ) has been completed. a ) ( BE) and 692 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PCP ), we generally discuss the projects of lein.o 366 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The first amendment to Law No 68 / 2014 of 29 August which approved the legal regime applicable to swimmers throughout the national territory with regard to the supervision of activities in public use pools ( PS ), and 147 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establish access to educational rights for swimmers and rescuers ( BE ). To present the PS bill, Mr. João Azevedo Castro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Bill No. 366 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), brought to the attention of the Chamber, aims to amend Law No 68 / 2014 of 29 August which approved the legal regime and regulation applicable to swimmers, in particular as regards the requirements for access to activity, certification of training and certification of equipment and installations. This was an initiative that needs to be pointed out for the operation of this activity and that it was important to realise, including, at the different points discussed, a set of surveillance requirements, which may merit analysis on the basis of its actual applicability. This reflection was based on the contribution of different entities, including the Portuguese Federation of Swimming, to some adjustments, such as those now presented. It is intended to consider, on the one hand, the conditions for carrying out the activity and, on the other, the specificity of practices, such as teaching, training, competition and maintenance under the appropriate technical framework. This monitoring requires not only technical supervision but also the analysis of the conditions of surveillance and safety of the activity for its normal development. In summary, it makes the presence of swimmer-savador in public-use pools optional by carrying out activities under adequate supervision by duly enabled technician and also in respect of the legal regime of the sports facilities currently in force. thus, it meets the operating needs identified by technicians and managing entities of swimming pools, depoiled by the Portuguese Federation of Natation, of adequate supervision of the activity by qualified technician, of consultation with the legal regime of sports facilities, of the ability to adapt the surveillance, considering not only the type of installation but also the activity for which this installation is used, in respect of the quality directive of pools of public use, and of the acquisition of competences for the aquatic environment as a primary tool for a preventive action in the safety of populations. at this point, the draft law No 147 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) the BE, in particular with the creation of a new article, to ensure that the rights arising from the situation of worker-student can be agreed with the activity of swimmer-savior. From now on, we have expressed agreement with the principles presented. Moreover, when a characterization of the swimmers-savadors shows that the vast majority perform this activity seasonally, finding itself exactly in the situation of worker-student. Therefore, the position of the PS is favourable, without prejudice to the fact that, in the specialty, other contributions can be found to improve the adequacy of the desired vis-à-vis the existing reality. It should also be noted that both proposals merited favourable opinion from the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u170	To present the draft law of BE, Mr. João Vasconcelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Once again, the Left Block Parliamentary Group presents to the discussion in the Assembly of the Republic the situation of most swimmers-saviators in the country. in the two previous legislatures, we presented several bills, aiming to improve the terms of hiring of swimmers-saviators, as well as establish their educational rights. These proposals were rejected by both PS and right parties, PSD and CDS. Today, we are here again, because we do not give up when it comes to reaffirming and strengthening the rights of workers, students, citizens' and citizens' rights in this country. from there, this bill establishing access to the educational rights of swimmers-saviators. The Constitution of the Republic must be fulfilled in its entirety, when it establishes, as the rights of all workers, the protection of the working conditions of workers-students. We all know that in the « lead years » of the governance of the PSD / CDS, the Constitution was violently attacked, having been many rights of workers and other citizens seriously diminished and even eliminated. Social and trade union rights were attacked, the National Health Service was attacked, the public school was attacked, the reformed were attacked, the families were attacked, the workers-students were attacked. thus, the PSD/CDS government did not care and did not want to know of the approval of educational rights to swimmers-saviators, in which the overwhelming majority are students, therefore, workers-students. According to the Instituto de Socorros a Naufragos, the extensive Portuguese coast requires about 2000 swimmers-savadors per day during the bathing season. of the 4000 people empowered to ensure the surveillance and safety of bathers, very few are available to work on the beaches. The overwhelming majority to ensure surveillance and rescue on the beaches are students, so it is important to find legal mechanisms necessary to reconcile these two activities. It is necessary to ensure effective study and qualification conditions for those who work, knowing that our country presents one of the lowest rates of European Union graduates. To reverse this situation, it is necessary to give all the best conditions of frequency of the various levels of the education system. According to the status of the worker-student, the exercise of the activity of swimmer-saviator becomes incompatible with the absence of a special period of examinations in all courses and in all academic years, as currently planned. And it is known that the bathing season generally coincides with the periods of higher education exams. It is therefore crucial to support the efforts of students in providing public service assistance to bathers and, at the same time, to ensure equal access to a public education service. in this draft law, several rights are guaranteed to swimmers-savers, such as: the justification of the lack, where the frequency of classes is incompatible with the appearance in the operational activity; access to the moments of evaluation, tests and oral examinations, and presentation of work, without loss of maturity; the requirement, in each school year, of up to five exams, in addition to the examinations carried out in the scheduled times, with a maximum limit of two per discipline; the swimmers-savers will be entitled to require the extraordinary period of evaluation; and finally, the swimmers-savers who work for shifts will have a right of preference in the occupation of the job compatible with their qualification and can attend classes. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u172	Mr João Rebelo has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We find ourselves discussing two draft laws — one of the Socialist Party and the other of the Left Block — which bring us minor amendments to the legal regime applicable to swimmers-saviors. With regard to the PS bill, it will be summarily in order to allow, when a public-use pool is used for physical and sports activities, it is considered sufficient that these facilities have the supervision of properly qualified technician, becoming optional the presence of swimmers-saviators. The Left Block Bill proposes that the swimmers-savadors holding labour contracts should be entitled to the justification of shortcomings and special periods of evaluation and not be obliged to perform additional work, except on grounds of force majeure. With regard to the initiative of the Socialist Party, we understand the scope that is intended with it, but we cannot ignore neither the concerns of the Portuguese Federation of Saviors nor the joint warnings of the Portuguese Federation of Swimming and the Portuguese Association of Swimming Technicians. on the one hand, we have the representatives of the swimmers who consider that swimming teachers have only 3 hours of initial formation of basic life support and aquatic rescue, a fact supported in the Portuguese study presented in 2013 at the World Convention on the Prevention of drownings that stresses that, after four months without continuous training, 66 % of rescue technicians no longer have technical conditions to perform this function. This PS bill, as you know, has a negative opinion from the International Life Saving Federation that brought us this opinion. on the other hand, we have the Portuguese Federation of Swimming and the Portuguese Association of Swimming Technicians who consider that the current law contains a gap and that this initiative of the Socialist Party has been amended. They consider that this gap in classification does not take into account the specificities of swimming pools intended for high sports performance and training and competition in the institutional context, because, in their understanding, this activity practice carried out in this field is always duly accompanied by qualified technicians, who ensure not only technical and pedagogical follow-up but also surveillance and safety, essential for sportsmen. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing, as you can see, with matters that are bi-valued, depending on whether the representatives of the swimmers, or the representatives of the Portuguese Federation of Swimming, with different opinions. We are faced with potentially sensitive and risky issues, which deserve more careful and in-depth analysis within the committee. Therefore, our sense of vote will be abstaining, so that we can work better on this matter later in committee. Finally, Mr President, I cannot fail to mention that this was an opportunity lost by the PS to change one of the negative aspects of Portaria No 168 / 2016, which came, in an impassioned way, to withdraw the mandatory presence of swimmers-savadors in the pools of tourist enterprises. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u174	Mr Jorge Machado, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has put forward a proposal to amend the legal regime applicable to swimmer-savior, which, as the National Federation of Salvadoran swimmers has pointed out, may present some dangers. in fact, the proposal has an underlying idea which is somehow well-intended, but which itself entails in the formulation used, dangers that must be taken into account. To say that the presence of swimmers-savadors is dispensed when a public-use pool is being used for physical and sports activity naturally leads to the concerns we share. Therefore, in our view, the proposal must be reformulated in order to ensure that there is no danger to the common user. If the idea is that the presence of the swimmer-savador is dispensed outside the normal working time of the pool and when it is being used exclusively for swimming competition, of course, this is a formulation that we can admit as reasonable. This is, in this framework, we accept this possibility when there is no lead for free use by users who do not practice swimming competition, outside the normal time of the swimmer-savior. Therefore, in the field of specialty, it is essential to take into account two situations in which the exemption from the presence of the swimmer-saviator is admitted: the exclusive use for swimming competition, which does not appear in the Socialist Party bill, and the use outside normal working time, ensuring that, within normal working time, there are the presence of swimmers-saviators. These are two subjects which we believe should be safeguarded in the context of discussion on the subject. The question I leave to the Socialist Party is very concrete and it is in the sense of whether or not it is available to discuss this matter in the field of expertise and change the wording it presented. Of course, if it is available, we will opt for an abstention allowing this discussion in the field of specialty; if it is not available, we will have to adjust our sense of vote, because this is a fundamental issue. To conclude, Mr. President, Mr. Members, Bill No 147 / XIII ( 1. a ) addresses a matter that is completely different from that of safety in public-use pools, which has to do with the question of justification for the shortcomings of swimmers-savadors for the frequency of a teaching institution and for examinations. The truth is, in most cases, the swimmers perform this function during the summer vacation period, during which there are usually no educational activities, despite the special periods of examinations, but there are also the swimmers who have a more professional connection, such as those of the municipal pools. in this sense, we understand that this legislative initiative makes sense to safeguard and clarify the rights of these swimmers during examination times and in the frequency of higher education, so we will therefore vote in favour of this initiative. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u176	Mr Joel Sá, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss the proposed amendment to Law No 68 / 2014 of 29 August which approved the legal regime applicable to swimmer-savior throughout the national territory, with regard to the supervision of activities in public-use pools. The classification was drawn up in a generic way, ultimately assuming as identical the infrastructures intended for the practice of water activities and support in the areas of leisure, training, sport and competition. This classification ended by not taking into account the specificities of swimming pools for high sports performance and training and competition in the institutional context. in fact, the practice of activity carried out in this field is always duly accompanied by qualified technicians, which ensure not only technical and pedagogical follow-up, but also surveillance and safety, essential for sportsmen, as expressed in the preamble to the Ordinance No 168 / 2016. It states the said Law in Article 31 ( 2 ). o — Public-use swimming pools monitoring: « The entire public-use swimming pool shall have the services of at least two swimmers and their rescue equipment defined by the ISN for assistance to bathers. This proposal aims to introduce an amendment to this paragraph by adding a new paragraph 3, according to which the rule of all public-use pools have to rely on swimmers-savadors becomes optional when they are being used for « physical and sporting activities, including teaching, maintenance, training and competition, provided that they are supervised by duly enabled technician » and when they operate « in compliance with the requirements of the legal regime of public-use sports facilities ». In June 2016, Article 23. the Ordinance No. 311 / 2015 was amended by the Government, taking into account the objectives pursued by the Portuguese Federation of Swimming. in the explanatory statement of this amendment, it is said that "(...) in the cases of public-use pools intended exclusively for high sports performance, training and competition, (...) the presence of swimmers-savadors is optional, but maintaining the need for the presence of a watchman. » As you can see, we believe that the objective of this proposed PS amendment has already been achieved by Ordinance No 168 / 2016 of 16 June, which amended Portaria No 311 / 2015 of 28 September, which regulates Law No 68 / 2014. The wording in the Ordinance of 16 June seems to be better than the one now contained in the PS proposal, since the latter appears to open too many exceptions by referring pools that are being used for « physical and sports activities, including teaching, maintenance, training and competition ». Will they not be all cases of exception? The Social Democratic Party will be available to work in the field of expertise to improve this proposal, which will vote in favour now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u178	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u179	I shall now conclude, Mr President. As for the draft law of the Block of Left, which proposes the access of swimmers to educational rights, we are available for, in the context of its discussion in the specialty, to work on this matter in order to improve. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u180	Mr João Castro, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to thank the questions put, which I think may be the target of a joint observation, including those of the CDS and the CFP, to express openness for reflection on the specialty and to reinforce that responsibility for security should always be safeguarded and analysed by the supervision of the activity by qualified and properly qualified technician. thus that this proposal makes the presence of the swimmer-saviator optional, by evaluating the conditions of carrying out the activity by qualified technician either by Portuguese universities, by their respective federations or even by the state with the title of sports coach. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u182	We thus give the debate, in general, of the projects of lein.o 366 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and 147 / XIII ( 1. ( a). of the sixth point of the order of business is, without time allocated for discussion, draft law No. 433 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amendment to the Electoral Law of the Bodies of Local Authorities adopted by the Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August 2001 and amended by the Organic Laws No 5 -A / 2001 of 26 November 2005 of 29 August No 3 / 2010 of 15 December and No 1 / 2011 of 30 November and by Law No 72 -A / 2015 of 23 July ( PS, PSD, BE and PCP ). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us therefore enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 216 presences, to which are added those of the Members. Mr Jorge Duarte Costa, from BE, and Mr Elza Pais, from PS, thanking 218 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes. Let's start with vote No 239 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Despite the death of former Mr Carlos Manuel Gonçalves Pereira Pinto ( PS ). I call on Secretary Idália Serrão to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last February 11, at the age of 74, Carlos Manuel Gonçalves Pereira Pinto. Natural of the city of Chaves, Carlos Pereira Pinto lived for two decades in the city of Penafiel, where he defended and promoted the development of the council, in particular as a member of the Municipal Assembly of that municipality. It was later rooted in the city of Porto, to which it will also be linked by the ties of the public activity that it created there. He was a Member of the Assembly of the Republic, in 1985, in the Fourth Parliament, by the electoral circle of Porto. For several years he has held various leadership positions in the Socialist Party, having served as President of the District Federation of Porto. With excellent working capacity, dedication to the causes that he defended and in which he believed, unbreakable sense of solidarity, humanism and tolerance, Carlos Pereira Pinto filled his life with the most varied and relevant services to the Socialist Party, the Country and the Penafiel. Professionally, the passage through the bank and the business world is marked, in which it placed the same capacity and professionalism with which it marked its profound and entire civic life. His full life will also be felt and remembered by the numerous cultural and recreational institutions where he selflessly lent his strong spirit of service. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, shares the deep pain and sharp sense of loss that the disappearance of Carlos Pereira Pinto caused his family, friends and comrades and addresses them with the deepest condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u184	We shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we turn to vote No 243/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — regretting the death of 22 girls in Guatemala ( BE ). I ask Secretary Moisés Ferreira to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « on March 8, 22 girls died in a fire in a juvenile reception centre in Hogar Seguro Virgen de la Asunción, Guatemala. The tragedy, where more than 38 young people were injured with second and third-degree burns, occurred following a fire when the young people protested against the sexual and physical abuse of which they were victims. They chose International Women's Day to, through a desperate request for relief, denounce the violence that they are victims in the center that hosts between 560 and 600 children and from where they had already fled 60 minors the day before. in a country that occupies the third place of maternal mortality in Latin America, in which only in the first half of 2016 were 38,759 adolescents between 10 and 19 years pregnant and where violence against women and children and sexual abuse and rape are constant, resulting in the death of more than 700 women and young women per year, these girls dared to break the silence and face the fear that inhabits the overwhelming majority of Guatemalan women in a deeply macho, conservative and repressive society. The 2017 International Women's Day is stained with blood by the death of these girls and young women when they claimed the protection of their most fundamental rights. Its courage must call upon all those and all those who fight for the fulfilment of human rights and constitute a historic framework for the global struggle of women. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, expresses its deepest regret at this tragic event and pays tribute to the victims and their families. It also expresses to the feminist movements and oppressed women around the world the conviction that the courage and determination of these young people will be in the memory of all and all and will serve as inspiration for the deepening of women's rights. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u186	We shall proceed to the vote on the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the votes that we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We now have a set of 12 votes on various matters, both internal and international. The votes are as follows: No 236 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Welcoming the commemoration of the 10-year anniversary of the decriminalization of voluntary termination of pregnancy ( PCP ), No 241 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Congratulations for the 10 years of decriminalization of voluntary termination of pregnancy ( IVG ) ( PS ), No 242 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Greetings for the 10 years of the approval of the law of voluntary termination of pregnancy ( BE ), No 237 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Congratulations on the results achieved by the athletes Patrícia Mamona and Nélson Évora in the Europeans of Belgrade ( President of RA, PS, PCP, PSD, CDS-PP and Os Verdes ), No 238 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Greetings for the performance of the Armed Forces in the United Nations international mission in the Central African Republic ( CDS-PP ), No 240 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Welcoming the commemoration of International Women's Day ( PCP, PS, The Greens, BE, PSD, CDS-PP and PAN ), No 244 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Condemnation by the pressures of the leadership of the Podemos and the systematic campaign of persecution carried out against professionals from different communication bodies in Spain ( PSD ), No 245 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemning the detention camps of immigrants implemented by the Government of Hungary ( PS ), No 246 / XIII ( 2. a ) — Condemning the antidemocratic attitude of some students at the Faculty of Social and Human Sciences of the University of New Lisbon and the decision to cancel a conference of political ideas ( PSD ), no. 248 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Sentence by cancellation of Professor Jaime Nogueira Pinto's conference at the Faculty of Social and Human Sciences ( PS, BE and PAN ), No. 249 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemning the cancellation of a conference at the Faculty of Social and Human Sciences at the University of New Lisbon ( CDS-PP ) and No 247 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Solidarity with Saharan political prisoners detained in Morocco ( CFP ). Before we proceed to the vote on the announced votes, the PSD Parliamentary Group has requested the Bureau for 4 minutes so that each parliamentary group can intervene, which has been authorised. Mr Sérgio Azevedo, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Freedom of information and expression is included in the framework of the essential rights of democratic rule states, operating as a guarantee of the full functioning of democracy. The pluralism and independence of the information agencies assume the guarantee and freedom pillar, which characterize democratic states as indispensable pendant of a truly pluralist democracy that enhances the divergence of opinion, the confrontation of ideas and the difference of positions, of which the construction of a more just, more equal and more participatory society inevitably emerges. at a time when the civic participation in the election of political activity, transparency in actions and decisions and the indisputable and obligatory accountability, the expressions of pressure and control, evidenced by a neocensorship, do not become compatible with the democratic mandate that involves us and that makes us as citizens free and heirs of the legacy of those who fought for the freedoms in all its dimensions. The recent news from Spain, which led the Madrid Press Association to denounce threats carried out by the Podemos against professionals from different media agencies, is not a good sign either for the foundations of Europe as an area of freedom, security and justice, or for the democratic and free regime of all its Member States. Free and democratic parliaments have an obligation to manifest themselves and condemn policies and actions which do not comply with respect for democratic principles, the most basic rights, freedoms and guarantees and, of course, the indignity of the violation of human rights, whatever dimension. This has been the example of the Portuguese Parliament, whether we are talking about European States or non-European States, whose recent political changes also show concern about the full respect for freedoms; we are talking about youth and student associations, controlled, which are not well known for whom democracy only meets the force of the censorship of contradiction, the censorship of the confrontation of ideas under the aegis of a ghost that democracy itself is responsible for annihilateting. After all, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the point of telling us Democrats if we do nothing against coercion, the threat and the censorship of the difference of opinion? What is the strength of democracy, ladies and gentlemen? Ladies and gentlemen, if we don't fully trust her? But above all, what is its difference with the other regimes if we accept and if we prevent them from thinking different from us? It is also in these votes, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment, you see who really fights for freedom and who fights for freedom cannot sit down. [[Congratulations from the PSD and CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u188	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the various votes put forward and under discussion this morning, we would like to highlight some aspects on two of them, one of which, presented by the Socialist Party, concerning the worrying situation we are witnessing today in a Member State of the European Union, Hungary. Even this week, Hungary announced the construction of immigration camps for migrants, for those who now reach Europe in a situation of greater fragility and who are not treated as they should be, that is, with respect to international law and with respect to the European Union, and therefore on the part of the Portuguese Parliament must be rejected. We note to the Bureau that we have requested the deletion of a constant reference to vote No 245 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) the parcel in which it refers that the Hungarian Prime Minister's party, Viktor Orbán, integrates the European People's Party, if it is an element that helps to extend consensus in the rejection by the Portuguese Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u190	And the Socialist Party too!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u191	A note on a relevant subject addressed in the votes presented by the PSD and other parliamentary groups so that it is absolutely clear and that Parliament has the opportunity to place the points properly and clarify, clearly, what has happened. We will all be united in the rejection of any form of censorship or in the abolition of academic freedom, but we must also be serious in the recitals that we write in the votes we have tabled, so that it is clear that they are not accused of facts that have not committed those who have only sought to respect and exercise their right as free citizens who do not want to associate with certain contents, certain entities and certain conferences. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Pedro Mota Soares.]] And what happened at the Faculty of Social and Human Sciences (FCSH) is today particularly clear, because of what the board said, or direction and by what it also said, the student association. The association of students, at no time, made any physical threat, at any time did something that would not be associated with an event, which is also something that, in democracy, assists all those who choose the way of honoring and sharing in civic life. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] We therefore subscribe to a vote in which it becomes absolutely clear the rejection of any action that has led to the failure of Prof. Jaime Nogueira Pinto's conference, but at the same time we do not spread and forget the will of groups — yes, violent ones, yes, extremists — who, through militias of dubious legality and of clear and dubious compatibility with the democratic system, said that they wanted to be present. These, yes, represented a threat and, I must say, in recent days have physically threatened members of the Association of Students of the Faculty of Social and Human Sciences and all those who opposed themselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u192	That doesn't bother the right anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u193	Indeed, we must be clear to identify all the opponents of democracy and the students of FCSH who today are afraid, afraid, must know that they are not abandoned by the Portuguese Parliament and that they are accompanied at all times, being also worthy of our protection — they and Prof. Jaime Nogueira Pinto. That is what a plural Parliament must do. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u194	For the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Edite Estrela has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u195	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members : International Women's Day — many people ask if it makes sense. The answer is that it makes sense as long as women earn less than men and have to choose between being mothers or keeping the head office; as long as women do not break the glass ceiling that prevents them from reaching the decision-making bodies; as men and women also do not share the family responsibilities and as women work the same as men out of the house and triple in the house; as long as women are the main victims of domestic violence and become devasive their privacy in interviews on access to the labour market; as long as women have to hide pregnancy and do not enjoy maternity leave with fear of being fired; as long as maternity is seen as a problem for employers and not as a more valuable to the economy and society; as long as the laws of parity are needed; and as women, despite well-trained and competent professionals, are referred to in the social communication for reasons that nothing concerns their ideas, professions or political programmes, but the cause. It makes sense, because the fight for equality between men and women is a process made of advances and retreats, as happened with the amendments to the law of the IVG introduced by the previous government and which, in good time, have been corrected.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u196	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u197	I'm done now, Mr. President. I am proud to belong to the party whose government decommissioned IVG in 2007,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u198	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u199	... putting an end to clandestine abortion, caused by the death of so many Portuguese women. The law of IVG, of which 10. the anniversary here we greet, represented a gigantic civilizational advance that can not go back. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u200	Mrs Sandra Cunha, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u201	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The infamous violence, oppression and limitations of fundamental rights that women throughout the world are victims of, just because they are women, cannot leave anyone indifferent. The International Women's Day, celebrated for the first time in 1911, marked the beginning of the visibility of women's struggle for something as obvious today as human rights. More than a century later, many achievements have been achieved and many advances have been made, especially in the most developed countries and where, fortunately, Portugal is located. But if we look at the world as a whole, we see how these advances and how the effective realization of women's rights and gender equality are still such a distant reality for so many millions of women and girls. We therefore reaffirm what we have already said here this week: our struggle, the struggle of women must be an international struggle, it makes no sense that it is otherwise. In Portugal, one of the most recent advances, but also most important for the self-determination of women and for the fulfilment of their most fundamental rights, was the approval of the law that delineated the voluntary interruption of pregnancy, which meant the end of decades of humiliation, condemnations...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u202	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u203	...and so many deaths from abortions performed under precarious and unsafe conditions. The woman was finally respected, and the most just and equal society. But there is still a long way to go, here and around the world. That is why it is so important that we do not leave the struggle in the middle and so important is the sign given in this House, where we do not cease to point out these remarkable dates, not only with wishes of greeting and congratulations, but with the presentation of concrete proposals and with the desire to fulfil the plan of full equality between men and women, and thus transform the world for the better. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u204	The Bureau no longer registers Mr. Ladies and gentlemen to intervene, so we can proceed to the voting...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u205	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u206	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u207	Mr President, I am sorry, but there was a momentary distraction on our part. Moreover, I would like to take this opportunity, in relation to the votes under discussion, to begin my intervention in the course of an interpellation with you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u208	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u209	in my explanation, I wanted to say the following: I know that, in this case, it is not your fault —... [[CDS-PP laughter.]] I have already recognised it, but, Mr President, the discussion formula we are adopting, the voting formula, each four-minute parliamentary group to intervene on Hungary, on New University, on Patrícia Mamona and I don't know what else, is no method. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u210	This is a huge confusion, which results — not being us in a 'banana republic' — of course, in a trivialization of the regimental figure of votes. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u211	On the other hand, Mr President, the presentation of many of these votes is a kind of ideological debate — an exercise which, from our point of view, is wrong — almost parallel diplomacy, so to speak. Let's go to all international politics to make diplomacy parallel, [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u212	normally one of the topics discussed here concerning votes on the two Koreas, North Korea and South Korea. I would even say that the only thing that is greater than the escalation of tension between the two Koreas is the escalation of the tension of votes between the benches in this Chamber. It's the only thing that's superior, Mr. President! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Sometimes the discussion of votes goes from the Power Carets to the Podemos... [[PSD laughter.]] ...or, if you like, from the other side of Mirandela to the parallel diplomacy. It's a total and absolute confusion! Whoever looks at this debate that we are having not only will not understand anything, as he will think he has arrived in Babylon. It is Babylon installed in the political debate! [[CDS-PP laughter.]] Mr President, in my remaining time, which is not much, and calling for the cooperation of the most illustrious colleagues and parliamentarians, I would like to say the following: this is the method we have, but I understand that the Conference of Leaders will have to think about this. This ends up being the denial of the debate, because there is no contradiction, there is no debate, one talk of something, another talk of another,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u213	And there are those who don't talk about anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u214	...one answers with another... it's the absolute confusion. Having said this, Mr President, we have chosen to speak, almost in the form of a statement of vote, about some of the votes that have been tabled here today. In order to make clear the position of the CDS, I would like to say, Mr President, that, with regard to the various votes that express congratulations on the laws that have liberalized abortion, the CDS will not follow them and vote against them. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u215	With freedom within our bench, but will vote against, for a very simple reason: we were not in favour of liberalizing abortion. We took part in the campaign, defending the 'no', we found and continue to think that there was another way, we did not change our mind and, therefore, we will vote against and not congratulate ourselves. [[CDS-PP applause.]] With regard to the human rights votes, whether the vote on Hungary or another, we shall vote in favour. It's our position. We stress that there is even a difference between the Portuguese Socialist Party and the Socialist Party of Hungary, which abstained,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u216	Well...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u217	... but regardless of that and despite everything, we will vote-CL - in favour of them. With regard to the votes on the central issue — and that is what we have to talk about, of course — the question of freedom of expression, I would like to say that we are not surprised, in any way, that a young student at a university — already in my time was like this, and there are already more than 30 years! — be radical and subject to more or less radical regimes. For us, the point is not to criticize one another and to attack another, not to criticize the other side and to defend those on the other side.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u218	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u219	I will finish, Mr. President. what we are talking about is a conference by Prof. Jaime Nogueira Pinto, who is a university professor, is not an agitator, and which, in the public space, has also debates with Dr. Jaime Gama, which we respect so much, but also with Ruben de Carvalho, which also deserves our respect.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u220	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u221	So that's not what's at stake. What is at stake is that some, Saudiers or communists, salinists or not,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u222	Ladies and gentlemen, your four minutes have already been largely exceeded.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u223	... can do their debates and that in a democracy, like Portugal today, freedom of expression is never, under any circumstances, put in question or threatened. That is the point and we will therefore vote in favour of the votes on freedom of expression. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u224	Mrs. Members, the issue which Mr Telmo Correia raised had already been discussed in the Bureau. Indeed, we will have to see in the Leaders' Conference what the rules are for making sense of this, because we will be talking about issues and others talking about other matters... I take advantage to say that a vote of congratulation was presented for the results obtained not only by our athlete Patrícia Mamona, but also by another great Portuguese, Nelson Évora. To speak, Mr João Oliveira, of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u225	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With great seriousness, I wanted to say that we should take advantage of the fault that the CDS here has made with regard to the votes and its discussion,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u226	We didn't introduce any!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u227	... because I believe that the time that Mr Telmo Correia spent, in his speech, to take account of this issue justifies the seriousness and commitment that the CDS places on this issue and that we should not waste the opportunity to discuss the conditions under which the votes are appreciated and presented. With regard to the votes cast today, I wanted to take account of the two votes cast by the CFP. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled a first ten-year memorial vote on the approval of the decriminalization of voluntary termination of pregnancy. on 8 March, 10 years passed over the approval by the Assembly of the Republic of the law that defused the voluntary interruption of pregnancy, ending a prolonged situation of injustice and dramatic criminalization of sexual and reproductive health that reached successive generations of women, who were forced to resort to the scourge of clandestine abortion. Ten years have passed without repeated humiliation of the judgments and convictions of women who were then forced to resort to clandestine abortion. What we have seen in these 10 years was the successive decrease in the number of voluntary interruptions of pregnancy and complications arising from clandestine abortions with the possibility of women deciding in consciousness and resorting to the National Health Service in security conditions. It is 10 years that confirm that the decision to strengthen sexual and reproductive rights, access to family planning, the guarantee of sexual education in all schools, adequate follow-up of pregnancy and postpartum, and the National Health Service and the public school must assume the added responsibilities in this area. Given the importance of this womanhood, we have put forward this vote in the hope that the Assembly of the Republic will recognise the importance of this decision to decriminalize the voluntary interruption of pregnancy, although we already know that we will not count on the favourable votes at least from the CDS bench. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have tabled a second vote on the situation of 24 Saharan political prisoners arrested in Morocco. These Saharan activists were subjected to a trial before a military court in 2013 and were sentenced to 20 years of life imprisonment. Several entities have denounced the illegality of this trial by appealing even to the declaration of its nullity, pointing to the conduct in an environment of coercion, violation of procedures, the absence of evidence and the fact that it is a conviction of civilians by a military court, having come the trial to be declared null. Now, the truth is it was a new trial resumed in December 2016 and was suspended on January 25 of this year with the prospect of being resumed on March 13 next. We therefore put forward a vote stressing the struggle that the Saharawi people, for four decades, have been developing for the recognition of their right to self-determination, as it has already been recognized by the United Nations. We therefore propose that the Assembly of the Republic appeal to the Moroccan authorities to ensure political freedoms for Saharan activists, expressing its support for efforts to achieve a just solution for Western Sahara, which will necessarily go through the realization of the right to self-determination of the Saharawi people in accordance with and respect for the relevant deliberations of the United Nations, the principles of its Charter and international law. Finally, Mr President, I just wanted to leave a record of the vote on the situation at the Faculty of Social and Human Sciences at the University of New. in the view of the CFP, and in the view that we have on this issue, we believe that the right of freedom of expression, provided for in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, must be defended...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u228	But...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u229	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u230	... and this should not be understood as an incentive and encouragement to the provocative and aggressive action of extreme right-wing organizations—in fact, well expressed in the development of this process—with the intimidation action already mentioned here, and which, of course, can only deserve a firm condemnation of all those who intend to defend the democratic regime provided for in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u231	Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u232	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD Parliamentary Group will not fail to take advantage of the remaining time to give a sign of the intervention made by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group by Mr Pedro Delgado Alves on the incident—which apparently did not appear to have happened—at the Faculty of Human Sciences of the New University of Lisbon. The honourable Member has made an intervention which we consider to be extraordinary but also symptomatic. Extraordinary because, according to the amended version of the facts offered here, nothing happened: there was no intimidation, there was no cancellation, there was nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u233	There was intimidation, there was!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u234	So what has happened was a gigantic illusion of opinion that the country, particularly social communication, has had in recent days. Nothing has happened at all! It is symptomatic because, if we wanted to find an example in what this PS is becoming in the eyes of everyone, a PS that is hostage to its extreme-left partners, of management,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u235	Try it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u236	...we had in this case, and in this debate, the best example of this.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u237	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u238	The PS did here a washing of an absolutely condemnable fact, which was the intimidation that was done and the tightening of freedom of expression in a Portuguese university.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u239	Thank you very much, Mr. You've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u240	And he did this washing to lend a favor to the radical extreme left parties, with which, by the way, the PS seems to be increasingly in agreement. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] Sorry! Regretful, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u241	Mr Jorge Costa of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u242	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I could not fail to cause perplexity to cancel a public conference in university space given by a recognized intellectual who has been publicly speaking in Portugal for many years. That is why we need to investigate what has happened, and the facts are public. There were two decisions: one, an association of students who, within the scope of the right of association, have the right to associate themselves, to sponsor, or not, the initiatives of others—and, in this case, decided not to sponsor—and another, of the direction of the Faculty of Social and Human Sciences, publicly assumed, to prevent the holding of this conference for security reasons. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u243	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the facts. Let's look at them because the case is serious. I shall quote the Director of the Faculty: « The Director of the Faculty does not assign responsibility to the student association, which has never called into question the conference, nor the lecturer». Therefore, the subsequent facts—invasion of the student association, convening a demonstration of a neo-Nazi group to the Faculty door, threats addressed personally to the student association leaders—prove the reasons for the concern about the nature of this event. The cover of a conference was being prepared to mobilize a true militia of extreme-right bulldozers, who came to present themselves, in the last days, in the space of the University and the Faculty. This was the follow-up to the facts throughout this week. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD protests.]] Therefore, it is purely fiction the idea that there was a persecution of Prof. Nogueira Pinto at the Faculty of Social and Human Sciences. No restriction on freedom of expression can be admissible, much less in the space of the Faculty, and, in this episode, what is seen, yes, is the alignment of the PSD and CDS with the new culture of the extreme right in creating alternative facts and lies... [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD protests, beating feet on the floor.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u244	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us create conditions for this debate to end.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u245	Lying about the performance of academic authorities, lying about the performance of elected student representatives is the worst service the PSD and CDS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u246	Thank you very much, Mr. You've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u247	...in the House of Democracy, they could lend freedom of expression. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u248	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u249	To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u250	To defend the honor of the bench, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u251	Can you justify it, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u252	Mr President, despite the noise in the Chamber, I believe that Mr. Member of the Left Block who was using the floor accused us and the Social Democratic Party of being aligned with the extreme right.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u253	Please defend the honor of the bench, Mr. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to create conditions for Mr Telmo Correia to be able to exercise the defence of honour and then to be given explanations, if any. You have the floor, Mr Telmo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u254	Mr. President, we in the CDS do not accept this kind of argument and this kind of accusation... [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u255	I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, let the speaker intervene so that we can complete this incident. You have the floor, Mr Telmo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u256	Thank you very much, Mr President. We do not accept this kind of argument, even for more from where they come from. [[BE's protests.]] The CDS is here in this House because a first generation of centrists and leaders of the CDS compared those who wanted to make Portugal a totalitarian state, ensuring that there was democracy, freedom and that the rules were pluralism. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] Since then, it should be remembered that who has often led this process was not even the great political figures of the CDS or PSD, were the great political figures of the Socialist Party. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u257	at that time, the Socialist Party did not laugh when such an accusation was made!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u258	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u259	At that time, the Socialist Party was on our side and did not laugh at these kinds of accusations! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] As we move forward for a few years, do you remember, Mr.António Filipe, that we of the same generation have been, for years, associate and academic leaders? Do you remember, Mr. Antonio Filipe? It was I, the honourable Member, who was sometimes sitting on the bench of the government and whose name is Antonio Costa. We were in college and what did we want? We wanted Freitas do Amaral to speak, who was a presidential candidate, but we also wanted Mário Soares to speak the following week, the PCP candidate spoke, the left block candidate spoke and the MPRP candidate spoke. This is our culture!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u260	You've outlived your time. I'm asking you to finish. We cannot prolong in time these incidents.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u261	A far-left extremist does not come here to accuse us of not knowing what democracy is and not respecting democracy! You want to shut up, you want to silence us, but we won't be silenced! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u262	With a request to defend the honor of the bench, the author of the expressions considered offensive may give immediate explanations. Mr Jorge Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u263	Mr President, it is extraordinary that the invocation of the image of honour is necessary for those who have decided to copy the practices of the extreme right, as I said recently, on alternative facts, to then use the designation "extreme left" against their opponents in Parliament. Let's move on. [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u264	Be ashamed, Mr. Jorge Costa!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u265	I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Members who maintain silence, which is essential for this incident to end in the shortest possible time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u266	We understand the awkwardness of the CDS Members with this matter. It is that the spokesperson for the far right group that organized this conference was a CDS activist until three weeks ago and was responsible for the formation of young militants.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u267	Get out of here! Ours go out, yours go to parliamentary leaders!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u268	I am not surprised that, with this young generation — which is evidently still so close to the Saudiism Mr Telmo Correia was talking about — the CDS is uncomfortable to confront this debate. With regard to Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, that's what...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u269	Mr Jorge Costa, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has not yet spoken. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to remain silent for now, yes, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, to be able to intervene. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u270	Mr. President, I intend to defend the honor of the bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u271	Is the same reason invoked by Mr Telmo Correia?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u272	Yes, Mr President, that is for the same reason.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u273	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u274	Mr President, I would like to make a request to defend the honor of the bench to which Mr. Jorge Costa, of the Left Block, has the answer before even hearing me. Anyway, that doesn't surprise us. Mr President, it would be good if the ghosts that do not exist were not shaken very calmly in this Parliament. It is not like that Spanish saying that says "I don't believe in witches, but there are them." They don't exist! And there is no extreme-right organized, no militias, nor that set of nonsense that was shaken by your bench. [[Aren't you?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u275	Mr Jorge Costa, this idea of wanting to link an image to democratic forces in this Parliament and which have always been since the foundation of democracy is not glued and is not even worth a reply. The only radical and extremist forces in relation to which, by the way, the mask is increasingly falling in front of situations, as I said recently, symptomatics like this, in which freedom of expression is involved — and freedom of expression was born so that we can hear those with whom we do not agree, that is what it serves — are the bench of the Left Block, as you are seeing in this debate. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] Sir, let me remind you that, with the argument... [[Continued protests of BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u276	I call for silence so that the speaker may complete the request to defend the honor of the bench. Please proceed, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u277	The argument of tranquillity and security served in history—and even in Portuguese political history—to silence dissenting voices. Salazar did this many times, invoking the argument that we could not hear these voices because this would create turmoil, turbulence, public change. And now the Left Block, like the Socialist Party, taking into account the statement you made recently, comes to defend a situation like this? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u278	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u279	It is regrettable once again, Member of the Commission! It's unfortunate, but the mask is falling into the Left Block! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u280	Mr Jorge Costa has the floor to explain. I ask that it be as brief as possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u281	Mr President, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, it seemed to me that he could have responded before his speech. Mr President, I want to tell you that I have limited myself to the facts. this week, four dozen extreme-right activists invaded the facilities of an association of students and the CDS and the PSD, with their concerns about freedom of expression, preferred to skip, prefer to hide these facts in the vote they presented here today. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, don't be afraid when you tell a story that's not true...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u282	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u283	...and hide what really happened, of being accused of being learning from the worst extreme right today in creating parallel alternative and narrative facts. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u284	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u285	Is it for what purpose, Member of the Commission?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u286	It is to defend the honor of the PS bench, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u287	Can you explain why, honourable Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u288	following Mr Telmo Correia's intervention, I believe that the PS Parliamentary Group must defend and clarify its position on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u289	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u290	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I use the floor using this regiment figure to, following Mr Telmo Correia's intervention, say that the Socialist Party's past speaks for its present. [[Don't talk, no!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u291	The CDS, in terms of public freedoms, owes more to the Socialist Party than the Socialist Party to the CDS! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, I wanted to say that the Socialist Party, for its heritage of struggle and for its present condition, is a party which condemns all acts that conflict with the free exercise of democratic freedoms.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u292	But...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u293	Thirdly, I would like to say that the Socialist Party has been, is and will be in our country always on the front line of the defence of freedoms and, for that, and at every moment, that Mr Telmo Correia is aware that the PS will be ever closer to those and the parties that are closest to the defence of freedoms. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u294	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor to explain. I'm asking you to do it quickly.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u295	Mr President, it will be at the time I have the right, which is exactly the same time as Mr Carlos César had the right.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u296	As you have recently far exceeded your time, I ask you to be briefer now. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u297	Mr. President, with his tolerance, and having understood that there was no offense on our part, allowed Mr. Carlos César to make a defense of honor. Mr. Carlos César, record at the moment that you felt the need to make a clarification. [[PS protests.]] I have nothing more to say to you, Mr President. at the time, I was unworthy — and you know as well as I know the history of my party; indeed, you do not know it as well as I do, but you know it - well - because there was a huge fun on the side of the Socialist Party at the time when we were being violently attacked and offended for not being a party that has always been debated by democracy. You said the CDS owes the Socialist Party. Mr. Deputies, the CDS owes nothing to anyone, because the CDS always did for itself and did for life. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u298	However, the country owes to the Democrats who made this country a democracy and some of them, as I myself said in my intervention, led the process and were of the Socialist Party. You give me a guarantee and I accept it, but I will not fail to remember it, and I will not fail to remind you and the Socialist Party whenever it comes on purpose. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u299	Thank you for your understanding, Mr Telmo Correia. We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 236 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Welcoming the commemoration of the 10-year anniversary of the decriminalization of voluntary termination of pregnancy ( CFP ). [[Submitted to the vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of PS, BE, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and 13 PSD (Alvaro Batista, Ángela Guerra, António Lima Costa, Berta Cabral, Carlos Abreu Amorim, Emídio Guerreiro, Emília Cerqueira, Firmino Pereira, Laura Monteiro Magalhães, Margarida Balsairo Lopes, Paula Teixeira da Cruz, Sara Madruga da Costa and Teresa Leal Coelho), votes against PSD and CDS-PP and 1 deputy PS (Ascence Simões) and abstentions of 14 PSD (António Costa Silva, Antonio Leitão Amaro, Bruno Coimbra, Fatima Ramos, Joana Barara Lopes, José Carlos Barros, José de Matos Correia, Luís Campos Ferreira, Manuel Frexes do Margarida Mano, Paulo Neves, Pedro Cóves, Cós, Cósão Roque, Móreso and Mòrezorezoreso, Mòreso and Mòrece Teresa (S)]] [[Congratulations from BE, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and PS Members.]] [[It is as follows: On 8 March 2017, 10 years passed on the approval by the Assembly of the Republic of the law which decriminalized the voluntary interruption of pregnancy. This date marks the adoption of a law decriminalizing the voluntary interruption of pregnancy, which put an end to a prolonged situation of injustice and dramatic criminalization of sexual and reproductive health of successive generations of women forced to resort to clandestine abortion. Ten years passed without trials and convictions, with the successive decrease in the number of abortions and complications resulting from clandestine abortions and with the possibility of deciding conscientiously and resorting to SNS in security conditions. Ten years that point to the need to strengthen sexual and reproductive rights; access to family planning; the guarantee of sexual education in all schools; adequate follow-up of pregnancy and postpartum, and the SNS and public school should assume added responsibilities in this area. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, welcomes and marks the commemoration of the 10-year anniversary of the adoption of the law of the Voluntary Breakdown of Pregnancy and undertakes its commitment and commitment to the fight to defend sexual and reproductive rights.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u300	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote No 241 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Congratulations for the 10 years of decriminalization of voluntary termination of pregnancy ( IVG ) ( PS ). [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PS, BE, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and 13 PSD Members (Alvaro Batista, Ángela Guerra, António Lima Costa, Berta Cabral, Carlos Abreu Amorim, Emídio Guerreiro, Emília Cerqueira, Firmino Pereira, Laura Monteiro Magalhães, Margarida Balsairo Lopes, Paula Teixeira da Cruz, Sara Madruga da Costa and Teresa Leal Coelho), votes against PSD and CDS-PP and 1 from PS (Ascence Simões) and abstentions of 15 PSD deputes (António Costa Silva, António Leitão Amaro, Bruno Coimbra, Duarte Filipe Marques, Fatima Ramos, Joana Bara Lopes, José Carlos Barros, José de Matos Correia, José de Matos Ferreira, Luís Campos Ferreira, Manuel Frexes, Manuel Frexes, Margarida CD Mano, Margarida Mano, Marves, Pedro Neves, Pedro Neves, Pedro Neves, Pedro Neves, Pedro Neves, Pedro Neves, Pedro Neves, Pedro Neves, Pedro Neves, Pedro Neves, Pedro Neves, Pedro and Sérais, Pedro Neves, Pedro, Pedro Neves).]] [[P.S., BE, PCP, Os Verdes and P.N.]] [[It is as follows: The law of decriminalization of IVG, adopted in a comprehensive final vote on 8 March 2007 and published on 17 April 2007 constituted a historic advance in the human rights of women, and placed Portugal in compliance with international commitments arising from the Cairo Conferences (1994), Vienna (1993) and Beijing (1995). Women's rights constitute an inalienable, integral and indivisible part of human rights and include sexual and reproductive health and free and responsible decision-making capacity without coercion, discrimination or violence. In this government, the setbacks to voluntary decriminalization of pregnancy have already been reversed, as well as attempts by the State to protect the paternalist in order to condition the free decision of women. Ten years ago, Members of Parliament and Members of all parties, as well as numerous civil society movements, began a protest and mobilization movement, which reflected discontent with the gross injustice against women who, wanting to interrupt their pregnancy, could not do so in conditions of legality and dignity. Many women were forced to resort to illegal and clandestine abortion, risking their health and their lives. For other women, the alternative to criminal persecution and health risks was travel abroad, a solution that was not within reach of all and that aggravated the iniquity of the legal framework then in force. Since the implementation of this law, the number of interruptions of pregnancy has been steadily decreasing, and since 2011 there has been no record of any death of a woman due to voluntary interruption of pregnancy. Furthermore, thanks to the new legal framework, the linkage with adequate and integrated family planning has become possible and an inseparable part of the strategy for eradicating the need to use the termination of pregnancy. This is a significant achievement for sexual and reproductive health that we have to point out. It is vital at this time to invest in the implementation of a true education for sexuality that promotes the autonomy and rights of women and men in access to family planning and the conditions necessary to take on the desired and planned pregnancies. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, welcomes the way in which Portugal has come to ensure sexual and reproductive health and the values of autonomy and dignity of the human person.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u301	Let us now vote on vote No 242 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Greetings for the 10 years of the approval of the law of voluntary termination of pregnancy ( BE ). [[Submitted to the vote, it was approved, with votes in favour of PS, BE, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN and 12 PSD Members (Alvaro Batista, Ángela Guerra, António Lima Costa, Berta Cabral, Carlos Abreu Amorim, Emídio Guerreiro, Emília Cerqueira, Firmino Pereira, Margarida Balsairo Lopes, Paula Teixeira da Cruz, Sara Madruga da Costa and Teresa Leal Coelho), votes against PSP and CDS-PP, José Carlos Barros, José de Matos Correia, Laura Monteiro Magalhães, Luís Campos Ferreira, Manuel Frexes, Bruno Coimbra, Duarte Filipe Marques, Pedro Neves, Pedro Neves, Pedro Neves.]] [[P.S., BE, PCP, Os Verdes and P.N.]] [[The second referendum on decriminalization of abortion in Portugal was held in February 2007. The result of this referendum meant that the country left behind the criminalization of women and the inquisitional judgments. It was thus redeemed the dignity of all women, changing the law and allowing the interruption of pregnancy up to 10 weeks in legal health establishments. For 33 years after 25 April, Portuguese women were limited in their freedom to decide, treated as second-born citizens, persecuted and convicted. The 2007 referendum ended decades of humiliation and persecution, contributing significantly to the advancement of sexual and reproductive health in Portugal. After a decade, the results are positive: fewer abortions, less recurrence, more contraception, zero maternal mortality. There is still a need to travel in the area of sexual and reproductive health: it is necessary to take sexual education to all schools, to extend access to family planning and to strengthen the National Health Service. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, welcomes and marks the commemoration of the 10 years of the approval of the Law of Voluntary Interruption of Pregnancy.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u302	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u303	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u304	Mr President, it is to announce that Mr. Deputies José Carlos Barros, António Costa Silva, Margarida Mano, Fátima Ramos, Bruno Coimbra and I will present a statement of vote on these last three votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u305	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u306	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u307	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u308	Mr President, I would like to announce that I, together with Mrs Rubina Berardo, will present a statement of vote on the last three votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u309	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u310	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u311	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u312	Mr President, it is to inform that I, with regard to the last three votes, together with Members of the Ángela Guerra, Berta Cabral and Sara Madruga da Costa, will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u313	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote No 237 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Congratulations on the results achieved by the athletes Patrícia Mamona and Nélson Évora in the Europeans of Belgrade ( President of RA, PS, PCP, PSD, CDS-PP and Os Verdes ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[Last Saturday, March 5, in Belgrade, the capital of the Republic of Serbia, the Portuguese athlete Patrícia Mamona was horrified by European Vice-Campean of Triple Jump in Covered Track, winning the silver medal. The next day, in the same Championship and in the same fashion, it was the turn of the Portuguese athlete Nélson Évora to receive the gold medal, as the European Champion was sanctified. Sport is a social right which, as such, should be accessible to the largest number of people. It is through democratic practices and lovers of sport that the universal values of solidarity, effort and respect for the rules are disseminated. It is also in this context that conditions and opportunities arise for some to jump to high competition. The sport of high competition, for its media dissemination and for the interest it awakens around the world, is always a stage of global affirmation of the athletes, clubs and nations they represent. Athletics have brought great joy to the Portuguese over the last few decades. Patrícia Mamona and Nélson Évora are faithful heirs of this good tradition that was legacy to them by generations, where they punctify the names of athletes such as Carlos Lopes, Rosa Mota and Fernanda Ribeiro, or the great trainer who was Professor Moniz Pereira. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, welcomes the entire delegation of the Portuguese Federation of Athletics in the Europeans of Belgrade and welcomes the excellence of the participation of these athletes, wishing them to continue their greatest successes in their career.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u314	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote No 238 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Greetings for the performance of the Armed Forces in the United Nations international mission in the Central African Republic ( CDS-PP ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions of the BE and the CFP.]] [[It is as follows: Portugal has been participating continuously for more than 20 years in operations outside its national territory, and it is difficult not to overstate the importance of its participation in international military missions, which contributes both to the active dignity of the name of Portugal in the countries and regions where our military are placed. Since January 2017 the Armed Forces have joined the United Nations Stabilization Mission in the Central African Republic, MINUSCA. For the first time since the arrival of the national contingent to Bangui, the Portuguese commands involved themselves in direct confrontations with the rebel forces. In this operation, the Portuguese military revealed, as is their panagio, an indomitive courage and bravery in the fulfilment of the mission, which deserved the greatest praise by the command of MINUSCA. The success of this action was also praised by the Supreme Commander of the Armed Forces, the President of the Republic, reinforcing the prestige and dignity of his performance. The Assembly of the Republic is associated with the praise of the operational commander of MINUSCA and the President of the Republic, welcoming the professionalism, high competence and strong spirit of mission that the Portuguese military have always demonstrated in the military peacekeeping operations.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u315	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u316	For what purpose. Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u317	Mr President, it is to announce that the CFP Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u318	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Let us now vote on vote No 240 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Congratulations on the commemoration of International Women's Day ( PCP, PS, The Greens, BE, PSD, CDS-PP and PAN ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[The International Women's Day was first celebrated in 1911, uniting thousands of women on the streets around the world in the struggle for equal pay for equal work, the reduction of working hours and the right to vote. The International Women's Day, proposed by Clara Zetkin in 1910 at the Second Women's Conference in Copenhagen, opened a new way for the fight of women for more social and political rights. 106 years have passed, and despite all progress achieved, discrimination continues to be a part of women's daily lives, and it is therefore urgent to ensure effective measures to combat discrimination and to defend equality between women and men, at work, in society and in the family. After 106 years, women's day-to-day, especially the younger ones, are marked by the social scourge of precariousness, unemployment, low wages. After 106 years, they are still discriminated against in their wages and working conditions. After 106 years, maternity and paternity rights are still violated. After 106 years, women still receive less for equal work and continue to see the top places far away. After 106 years, only with much effort women can articulate participation in political, association and social life with professional, personal and family life. Over 106 years, women's knowledge and qualifications are still being wasted, particularly in the context of political and economic decision-making, where women continue to be underrepresented. After 106 years, women are the victims of violence, sexual exploitation and prostitution, trafficking and harassment in the workplace. Equality in the law is not yet equal in the lives of most Portuguese women. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, welcomes and marks the commemoration of the International Women's Day and undertakes its commitment and commitment to the fight for equality between women and men, law and life.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u319	Let us now vote on vote No 244 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Condemnation by the pressures of the leadership of the Powers and the systematic campaign of persecution carried out against professionals from different communication bodies in Spain ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes in favour of the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PAN and 5 PS (António Gameiro, Ascension Simões, Helena Roseta, Miranda Calha and Vitalino Canas).]] [[It was as follows: Freedom of information and expression is included in the framework of rights, freedoms and personal guarantees with a constitutional seat, as well as in several international declarations of rights, and ultimately guarantees the completeness of democracy. Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights states that “every individual has the right to freedom of opinion and expression, which implies the right not to be disturbed by his views and to seek, receive and disseminate, without consideration of borders, information and ideas through any means of expression”. Hence, to be very concerned that we are aware of the complaint made by the Madrid Press Association regarding the pressure of the Pablo Iglesias Party which limits the freedom of information by journalists, intends to undermine the credibility and prestige of these professionals and to cultivate a climate of fear among journalists. The persecution campaign carried out by Podemos against professionals from different communication bodies, which frightens and threatens when it disagrees with its information and has been materializing repeatedly for more than a year in attacks on journalists, with injuries and personal attacks in interviews, forums and public acts or directly on Twitter, deserves our complete repudiation. Only freedom of expression, constitutionally guaranteed, is capable of maintaining the true democratic state of law. Media pluralism is an indispensable element of pluralist democracy. Putting the right of citizens to information and the expression of journalists into question is undoubtedly the other fundamental rights. The Assembly of the Republic meeting in plenary on 10 March 2017: repudiates the pressures exerted by the leadership of the Podemos in order to control the work of journalists and limit their independence, which is totally incompatible with the democratic system.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u320	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u321	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u322	Mr President, that is to say that I will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u323	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u324	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u325	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u326	Mr President, that is to say that I will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u327	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Let us vote vote No 245 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemning the detention camps of immigrants implemented by the Government of Hungary ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[It is as follows: The Hungarian Government, led by Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, leader of Fidesz, an integrated party in the European People's Party, announced this week the implementation of immigration camps, next to the border. Viktor Orbán even stated that "immigrants are a Trojan horse for terrorism", acquainting populism and sowing fear and distrust towards humans in an immense fragile situation, unacceptable in the context of the States' democratic rights and open societies, and even more unacceptable when emanating from a Head of Government of a Member State of the European Union, linked to respect for the Charter of Fundamental Rights and numerous instruments of migration and asylum policy in conformity with international humanitarian law. The United Nations stressed the illegal nature of measures, violators of European Union law and re-editing measures already in force and abandoned in 2013 by UN and EU pressure. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, condemns the decision of the Government of Fidesz, led by Viktor Orbán, to reintroduce immigration detention camps at its borders, calling on the Hungarian authorities to ensure respect for European Union law and international law, creating conditions of dignity and respect for the fundamental rights of migrants and refugees on their borders.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u328	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u329	For what purpose. Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u330	Mr President, in order to announce that the CFP Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u331	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u332	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u333	For what purpose. Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u334	Mr President, to announce that Mr Miguel Morgano and I will deliver a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u335	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u336	Mr President, the vote script states that this vote was presented by the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u337	Yes, Madam Member, but I announced that this vote No 245 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) was presented by PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u338	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u339	Mrs. Members, the following vote No 246 / XIII ( 2. a ) — Condemning the anti-democratic attitude of some students at the Faculty of Social and Human Sciences of the University of New Lisbon and the decision to cancel a conference of political ideas ( PSD ). With regard to this vote, the PS calls for a separate vote on points (a) and (b). Let us then begin by voting on point (a). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN were rejected, votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and 1 PS Member (Miranda Calha) and abstentions by 2 PS (Ascension Simões and Helena Roseta).]] [[(a) the intimidation and totalitarian attitude of some students at the Faculty of Social and Human Sciences of the New University of Lisbon because they are dangerously contradictory to the democratic and pluralistic sense that our Constitution determines and that the Portuguese do not go without it;]] Mr President: - We shall now vote on point (b) of that vote. [[Subject to the vote, the CDS-PP and 3 PS (Raising Simões, Helena Roseta and Miranda Calha) voted against BE, the PCP and the Greens and PS and the NAP.]] [[(b) The transitional nature of the Governing Council of the same Faculty, since it has given way to a matter where withdrawal can only be regarded as a serious damage to the freedom of all, which democracy enshrines, as well as an injury to the image of the entire Portuguese university.]] [[The vote is of the following content: The country was surprised by the news that a conference that would be led by Dr. Jaime Nogueira Pinto that would take place in a Portuguese university, the Faculty of Social and Human Sciences of the University of Lisbon, scheduled for the last 7 March, and which saw its implementation banned by the Board of Directors of that faculty. The reasons then alleged in the social communication by those responsible for this higher education institution stemmed from a clear notice by some students, gathered for the purpose at the General Meeting of Students (AGA), who finally opposed the holding of this event to disagree with the public views of the so-called lecturer. According to abundant news from the public, students have come to the point of threatening the security and tranquility of this university space if the conference is going to happen. In these regrettable circumstances, the Governing Council gave in to those who did not hesitate to use blackmail and threat to silence the voices that claim ideologically divergent with those university students. This decision and the intimidation process that has motivated it are unacceptable in an open and tolerant democracy such as the political system and fundamental rights defined in our Constitution of the Republic. This sad episode denotes a logic of intolerance and sectarianism incompatible with the happily prevailing feeling in Portuguese society. All the political voices and ideas, even those with which the Democratic Social Party does not identify itself, deserve to hold a space of freedom that allows its discussion within the rules of the democratic game — if and when we abdicate from this greatest conquest of April we will be irrespective of the hard core of freedom of all. In view of the above, the Assembly of the Republic strongly condemns: (a) the intimidation and totalitarian attitude of some students of the Faculty of Social and Human Sciences of the New University of Lisbon because it is dangerously contradictory to the democratic and pluralistic sense that our Constitution determines and that the Portuguese do not spare; (b) the transition of the Governing Council of that same Faculty, since it has yielded in a matter where indifference can only be regarded as a serious harm to the freedom of all, that democracy enshrines, as well as a harmful damage to the image of the entire Portuguese university.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u340	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u341	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u342	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u343	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote no. 248 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemning the cancellation of Professor Jaime Nogueira Pinto's conference at the Faculty of Social and Human Sciences ( PS, BE and PAN ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[This is the following: The cancellation of a public conference by Professor Jaime Nogueira Pinto, which the New Portugality organization intended to promote in the facilities of the Faculty of Social and Human Sciences of the University of New, caused great questions and perplexity in broad sectors. Contradictory versions of the facts have circulated widely. To substantiate an assessment of the conduct of the various actors, only the communiqués issued by the Faculty's Directorate, the Directorate of the Association of Students (AEFCSH) and the Reitório de Universidade Nova are available so far. Contrary to what initially circulated, the Student Association is totally alien to the cancellation decision. The FCSH/New Directorate itself points out that “it does not confer responsibility on the Association of Students of FCSH/Nova, which has never called into question the conference nor the lecturer”. In fact, the Directorate of the Association of Students, following a general discussion of students' meetings, merely withdrew from support for the event through space reserve. The right of association is constitutional and undoubtedly includes the right to support external initiatives, such as that of the New Portugal organization. For its part, the Faculty's Directorate fully assumes responsibility for the cancellation of the event. Moreover, the autonomy of universities attributes to the Faculty's Directorate the exclusive responsibility for academic spaces. In a statement, the Director of FCSH/Nova justified his decision with ‘concrete concerns and indications regarding the absence of normality and serenity conditions in which the event should take place’. These concerns will have been related to statements which circulated on the Internet and also, according to the Association of Students, with the fact that the organization New Portugal has informed the Directorate of FCSH “that it intended to bring its own security device, materializing the fears of a alleged conflict”. The concerns of the FCSH Directorate gained substance at the end of the afternoon of the 7th, when “the direction of the Association of Students of the Faculty of Social and Human Sciences of the University of Lisbon was invaded by four tens of individuals affected to the extreme right, who identified themselves as such. In a clearly intimidating attitude, they demanded to know individually some of the members of AEFCSH’, as reported by the Association of Students. A public conference must be a non-violent act. The university space is, par excellence, that of ideas, diversity and pluralism. Professor Nogueira Pinto is a well-known academic and political speaker whose public intervention must be respected and carried out in quiet conditions. In line with these principles, Reitória da Universidade Nova clarified in a statement that "the conference was postponed so that the topic could be discussed in an extended and objective way in a serene climate and in conditions of complete openness and plural dialogue". Without a doubt, the option of the Faculty's Directorate for the inhibition of the event will be questionable rather than immediately imposing normal conditions for its realization, but it is clear that intentions and absolutely unacceptable facts have been recorded by the conference promoters and the group associated with them. The Assembly of the Republic reaffirms the principle of university autonomy and academic freedom and vehemently condemns: the obstacles posed to the normal conduct of a conference by Professor Jaime Nogueira Pinto; the attempt to use a conference in university space to mobilize an extreme right militia with alleged security functions; the invasion of academic and associative facilities by an extreme right-wing group and the attempt to intimidate elected associations; all forms of limitation to freedom of expression, enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u344	Mrs. Members, let us vote no. 249 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemning the cancellation of a conference at the Faculty of Social and Human Sciences at the University of New Lisbon ( CDS-PP ). [[Subject to the vote, the CDS and 4 PS (António Gameiro, Helena Roseta, Miranda Calha and Vitalino Canas) voted against BE, the PCP and the Greens and PS and the NAP.]] [[It is as follows: The country took knowledge, by the social communication, that a conference marked for the 7th of March, at the Faculty of Social and Human Sciences (FCSH) of the New University of Lisbon, and that the historian and academic Jaime Nogueira Pinto had been invited, was cancelled due to alleged pressures against speakers and the entity responsible for the organization. The threats, according to this news, were made by students of that faculty to participants in the conference — who had as title Populism or Democracy: Brexit, Trump and Le Pen, will have been at the origin of the decision taken by the Directorate to cancel the event. This decision will have been taken after a General Meeting of Students has been adopted a motion submitted by the Association of Students (AEFCSH) against the lecture, which qualified as “an event associated with colonialist, racist and xenophobic arguments”. AEFCSH will then have appealed to the FCSH Directorate not to give in to the room where the debate would take place. According to news reports, the conference promoters — and the guest speaker himself — say they respect “the concern of the leadership with the safety of all concerned”, but disagree with the decision to cancel the conference. These events in an academic environment, during a conference to which university professors were invited, disagree or agree with their positions, are, in our view, a serious limitation on freedom of expression and debate in the public academic environment, which, on the contrary, should be the first to encourage diversity of opinions and free and plural discussion of ideas. Regardless of the organizers and speakers, this does not seem to be an isolated case of limitation to freedom of expression at the FCSH University of New Lisbon, because, according to statements to the press of the speaker invited to the lecture, Jaime Nogueira Pinto, “formerly [FCSH students] have been shouting at a conference of the Israeli ambassador”. The Assembly of the Republic considers it serious and worrying any limitation to freedom of expression, especially when it occurs in an area which must by nature be of freedom, pluralism and debate of ideas, such as the university, thus condemning the above mentioned events for constituting a limitation of that constitutionally enshrined freedom.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u345	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u346	For what purpose. Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u347	Mr President, to announce that Mr António Gameiro and I will present a statement of vote on the last three votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u348	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u349	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u350	For what purpose. Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u351	Mr President, it is to be announced that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on these last three votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u352	Be registered, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u353	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u354	For what purpose. Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u355	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on all the votes that have been made so far.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u356	I hope it's not about everything we've voted for so far. In any case, the problem lies with the honourable Member. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us vote No 247 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Solidarity with Saharan political prisoners detained in Morocco ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, the votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP, the PSP and the CDS-PP and the abstentions of 1 PS Member (Miranda Calha) and 1 CDS-PP (João Rebelo) were adopted.]] [[In 2010, 24 activists took part in a protest camp of Gdeim Izik, conducted by thousands of Saharans in defence of their rights, including the right to self-determination of the Saharan people. These Saharawi prisoners were tried by a military court in 2013, having been sentenced to life imprisonment for 20 years. Several entities have denounced the illegality of this trial and consider it null and void, pointing to its conduct under an environment of coercion, violation of procedures, absence of evidence and the fact that it is a conviction of civilians dictated by a military court, having this judgment been annulled. A new trial was resumed at the Court of Appeal of Sale, Rabat, in December 2016, having been suspended on 25 January and will be resumed on 13 March. It should be noted that the Saharan people have been continuing, for four decades, in their struggle for the respect and realization of their right to self-determination, recognized by the United Nations, which established, for about 26 years, the United Nations Mission for the Referendum in Western Sahara (MINURSO). Recalling that, in accordance with the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, Portugal recognises the right of peoples to self-determination and independence and development, as well as the right to insurrection against all forms of oppression, the Assembly of the Republic meeting in plenary: 1 — Calls upon the Moroccan authorities to ensure political freedoms for Saharan activists, 2 — Express their support for efforts to achieve a just solution for Western Sahara, which will necessarily go through the realization of the right to self-determination of the Saharan people, in accordance with and respect for the relevant United Nations deliberations, the principles of its Charter and international law.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u357	Mrs. Members, let us vote on draft resolution No 676 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Cape Verde and Senegal ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we will vote for applications, submitted by the authors of the diplomas, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without voting, for a period of 30 days, of the projects of lein.o 214 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Strengthens the initial parental leave up to 210 days, extends the period of parental leave in the event of premature birth and extends the exemption for breastfeeding and breastfeeding to follow up to three years of age, promoting an amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( The Greens ), 344 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Protects pregnant, puerperal or lactating workers in the experimental period, making it compulsory to give prior opinion of the ISCED in the event of a complaint of the employment contract by the employer ( BE), 354 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the protection of pregnant, puerper and lactating workers and workers in the enjoyment of parental leave and amends the Labour Code and the Labour Law in Public Functions ( PCP ), 430 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves transparency measures to eliminate wage inequalities between men and women ( PSD ) and 431 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Procedures at 11. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code, facilitating the exclusive parental leave of the father and extending the enjoyment of the supplementary parental leave and the leave for assistance to grandparents ( CDS-PP ) and draft resolutions No 697 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to enhance women's participation in security forces and services ( PCP ), 701 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to eliminate wage inequalities between men and women ( PSD ), 702 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop an incentive policy for enterprises promoting gender equality ( CDS-PP ), 703 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Flexibility of daycare hours through social security cooperation agreements, incentives to be established by companies and promotion of agreements between childcare establishments and employers ( CDS-PP ), 704 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government increase from three to five cycles of assisted drug procreation treatments, shared by the National Health Service ( CDS-PP ), 711 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government combat discrimination against women and promote gender equality in the security forces ( BE), 713 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to promote the transparency of remuneration with a view to eliminating wage inequalities between men and women ( PS ) and 715 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to promote reconciliation between professional, family and personal life ( PS ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] The diplomas are down to 10. the Commission for a period of 30 days. We moved on to draft resolution No 658/ XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the reorganization of the network of offices to assist victims of domestic violence by GNR and PSP ( CDS-PP ). Mrs. Members, the cabinet network is that it is GNR and PSP. The title of the diploma is drawn up in a somewhat misleading way. the way this writing seems to be that the victims of domestic violence are GNR and PSP, so perhaps it would be better to write otherwise. Anyway, having its meaning clarified, then we will vote on draft resolution No 658/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 700 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the inclusion of statistical data on dating violence in the Annual Internal Security Report ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 705 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government work towards the resizing of assumptions in the application of the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence and the protection and assistance of its victims ( PAN) ( Text replaced at the request of the author ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP, against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] We are now voting on draft resolution No 710 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends the training of security forces for the protection of victims of domestic violence ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will move on to draft resolution No 714 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Strengthening measures to combat domestic violence ( The Greens ), for which the separate vote of points 1 and 2 has been requested, We shall begin by voting point 1. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 2. [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 291/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Conditions of health and safety at work in the security forces and services ( PCPs ). [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 706 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the improvement of mental health conditions, in the working environment, in the security forces and services, by creating a programme to promote the psychological resilience of operators (NAP). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We proceeded to the vote of requests, submitted by the authors of the diplomas, asking the Education and Science Committee to be discharged, without voting for a period of 30 days, of draft resolutions Nos 602 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government combat school dropout in higher education ( PSD ), 696 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to combat dropout in higher education ( PCP ), 698 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote measures to combat dropout in higher education ( CDS-PP ), 699 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government study on failure and abandonment in higher education to better define policies to combat these phenomena ( PS ), 707 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen support measures for higher education students as a form of combating school dropout ( NAP) and 709 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Measures to deepen social action mechanisms and to combat school dropout in higher education ( BE ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Legislative initiatives therefore go down to the committee responsible for a period of 30 days. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 572 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Multi-annual plan for the end of the tips in public higher education institutions ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP and abstentions by 3 PS (Diogo Leone, Ivan Gonçalves and João Torres).]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 692 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends the end of the tips in public higher education ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u358	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u359	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u360	Mr President, it is to announce that, on my behalf and on behalf of the Members of the European Parliament, John Torres and Diogo León, we will present a statement of vote on the two previous votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u361	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 366 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The first amendment to Law No 68 / 2014 of 29 August which approved the legal regime applicable to swimmers throughout the national territory as regards the supervision of activities in public-use pools ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS and the NAP and with abstains from BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens.]] The bill goes down to 3. the Commission. We shall generally vote for Bill No 147 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establish access to educational rights for swimmers and rescuers ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 10. the Commission. We are voting in general on the text of the replacement tabled by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Freedoms and Guarantees on the drafts of lein. 308 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Procedure at 6. the amendment to the electoral law of local authorities bodies, approved by organic law No. 1 / 2001 of 14 August ( BE), 318 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Alter the Organic Law No. 1 / 2001 of 14 August ( Electoral Act of the Bodies of Local Authorities ), concerning applications by groups of electors ( CDS-PP ) and 328 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Sixth amendment to the Electoral Act of Local Authorities, simplifying and clarifying the conditions for applications by groups of citizens and extending the scope of the Equality Act ( PS ). [[The vote was taken with the votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN and the votes against the PSD, the PCP and the Greens.]] We shall vote in favour of the plenary of the indexary votes held in the special session. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We will also proceed to the comprehensive final vote of that replacement text, presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Freedoms and Guarantees, which, since the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly require a qualified majority, will be made using electronic voting. Mrs. Members, I recall that in the electronic vote, at the same time as they stand or sit in accordance with what the Bureau requires, they also vote by means of the electronic vote by pressing their button. [[Having put to the vote, he obtained the votes of the absolute majority of members in effective office, with 120 votes in favour (PS, BE, CDS-PP and PAN) and 96 votes against (PSD, PCP and Os Verdes).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u362	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u363	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u364	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will present a statement of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u365	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u366	Sir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u367	Mr President, it is to announce that the CFP will also make a written statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u368	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it's registered. We shall vote, in general, in the expertise and in the overall final vote, also using the electronic vote, Bill No. 433 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amendment to the Electoral Law of the Bodies of Local Authorities, approved by the Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August 2001, and amended by the Organic Laws No 5 -A / 2001 of 26 November, 3 / 2005 of 29 August, 3 / 2010 of 15 December, and 1 / 2011 of 30 November, and by Law No 72 -A / 2015 of 23 July ( PS, PSD, BE and PCP ). [[When put to the vote, he obtained the votes of the absolute majority of members in effective office, with 208 votes in favour (PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, Os Verdes and PAN) and 3 votes against (PSD).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u369	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u370	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u371	Mr President, it is to inform me that I did not have the conditions to register my electronic vote and that I voted in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u372	Mr President, it was not one of those who voted against, it voted in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u373	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u374	Sir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u375	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau. I believe that the three votes against the PSD bench were manifestly a lapse because I believe that no PSD member voted against. In fact, there was no one from the PSD bench who had risen.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u376	Mr. Deputy, exactly! That is a fact that I can confirm, but I am starting from the principle that there was a mistake, which is a human and natural thing, unless some PSD Member wishes to confirm that he voted against. Do any of you wish to confirm that you voted against? [[Pause.]] Since no one intends to use the word, it is confirmed that Bill No. 433 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ), in general, in the field of expertise and in the overall final vote, obtained the votes of the absolute majority of Members in office effectiveness and was approved unanimously.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u377	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u378	Ask for the floor to what effect, Mrs. Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u379	Mr President, it is to inform me that I voted in favour, but it was not registered electronically.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u380	There is no problem, Mrs Deputies, because it was a unanimous vote and, as such, all the Members and all the Members. Members will be registered as having voted in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u381	Mr President, I have also been unable to electronically record my vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u382	As I have already said, there is no problem, because it is recorded as having voted in favour.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u383	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u384	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u385	Mr President, I would like to inform the Bureau that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a written statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u386	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Let us now vote on draft resolution No 648 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government urgently establish the land exchange agreement of the extinct EB 2, 3 Fernando Pessoa with those of the new Fernando Pessoa Basic School, with the municipality of Santa Maria da Feira ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u387	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u388	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u389	Mr President, I would like to announce that the CFP Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u390	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we turn to draft resolution No 633 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, in the context of the protection of the coastal shoreline and of the safety of persons and goods, examine cases similar to the seaport of Figueira da Foz, conduct a study to assess the implementation of the bypass at the entry of it and its disclosure ( PSD ) for which the PS requested a separate vote from point A. Therefore, having no objection, we shall first vote on point A. [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on points B and C of draft resolution No 633 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 686 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent implementation of sedimentary transposition actions in the Figueira da Foz and Aveiro bars, as prescribed by the Coastal Working Group ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u391	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u392	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u393	Mr President, it is only to announce that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u394	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We move on to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation, on Bill No 56 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Adopts a transitional measure to reduce the special payment on account provided for in Article 106. the Code of Tax on the Income of Collective Persons and Bill No. 402 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — creates the conditions for the replacement of the special payment on account by a simplified scheme based on technical-economic coefficients by sector of activity ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] Let us now proceed to the overall final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on the drafts of lein. 348 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 50 / 2007 of 31 August by strengthening the legal framework for the handling of sports competitions ( PS ), 355 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Criminal liability regime for behaviors likely to affect the truth, loyalty and correctness of competition and its result in sport activity ( PSD ) and 365 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 50 / 2007 of 31 August, as amended by Law No 30 / 2015 of 22 April 2015, which establishes legislative measures aimed at strengthening the effectiveness of the fight against sport corruption ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u395	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u396	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u397	Mr President, I would like to announce that I, Mr Émídio Guerreiro and Mr Pedro Pimpão will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u398	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We moved on to the final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization, on the drafts of lein.o 205 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Extend the securities to the carrier and determine the write-off of the securities, ensuring the identification of their holders ( BE ), and 262 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Bans the issue of securities to the carrier ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on the replacement text, presented by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization, relating to Bill No 207 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extends the obligation to register the shareholders of the banks to identify the effective beneficiaries of the entities participating in their capital ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we now have to vote on a request by the Block on the Left, for the plenary to discuss and vote on a proposal to add a new Article 3. the, passing the current article 3. Article 4. the, to the said replacement text. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] It has been established that each parliamentary group would have two minutes to intervene in the context of the discussion, in the specialty, of this proposed addition, and now Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u399	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with regard to the rule that the Left Block has advocated for discussion and vote by the plenary, there is no objection on the part of the CFP. In fact, as we have manifested in a timely manner, it is a transitional standard which is lacking in the proposed diploma and which is now approved. But we did not want to fail to take this opportunity to counsel the plenary of an article to note that, in the view of the CFP, we are faced with a missed opportunity—one more missed opportunity! — to resolve once or at least to start a path that is characterized by reducing the problem of offshores. The CFP proposed to increase the IRS-based rates at IRC-based seal tax, to prohibit transfers to non-cooperating offshores or to severely limit transfers to other offshores and all these proposals remained for this stage of discussion, although there are still two proposals from the CFP that continue in the working group, for which we hope they will have a positive outcome. in essence, it is clear that the proposals now approved, which are replacement texts that represent only the PS and BE projects and which exclude all others, including those of the PCP, do not deserve, on our part, a criticism, unless, once again, the Assembly of the Republic loses an opportunity to solve this problem and to, more than knowing who puts money on us offshore and how much money it places, prevents it from placing money out of the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u400	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u401	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request for a lawyer, submitted by the Left Block, is specific on two standards, which have already been given the consent of all banks, and only has to do with the time of application of the diploma, the way in which the existing legislation would fit into the new legislation and its entry into force. We do not intend to open a political debate, because we believe that the debate is closed with what happened in committee. There are a number of our proposals that could go further in the fight against offshore, tax evasion and tax transparency, but we will be able to discuss these issues here in the Assembly of the Republic in the near future.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u402	Mr Eurico Brillante Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u403	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I think this is an opportunity for the Socialist Party to once again state that the strategy to combat offshore transfers has two dimensions, the first of which is that of fighting in the right place, in particular in the European institutions, so that the solution of offshore transfers is a common solution and does not in any way prejudice national jurisdiction vis-à-vis other jurisdictions. Anyone who wants to solve this problem is attacking it in the right place, and the right place is the Community institutions, the European institutions. But in the Portuguese case in Portugal there is another central aspect, which is that of transparency, more transparency. And our vote in favour of advertising — a project proposed by the Left Block and which has several amendments, proposed by different parliamentary groups — is also a stressed that what happened in the last four years, the non-advertising of transfers to offshore, was a bad service that the PSD/CDS government has given to the Republic and that it has not allowed the proper scrutiny of more than EUR 10 billion. I would also like to say that, to a large extent after today, another step has been taken to identify effective beneficiaries, a step forward has been taken in advertising, a step forward has been taken with the elimination of capital securities to the carrier. And for this step, the Socialist Party's bench was in the front line. Now, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, this bench is in the front line in the fight against offshore transfers, but it will not fall into any intrusion, nor in any transfer of responsibility, than VV. They want to do for a government that, when he took office, could not vote,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u404	Mr. Deputies, you've finished your time. At this hour, we have to be very rigid.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u405	...because VV. Ex.s were inefficient and ineffective in what they had to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u406	Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u407	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the matter that motivates these diplomas, we often see statements that are quite inflamed here in the plenary, which, after all, have little legislative consequences. Since we are talking about these diplomas, it is also good to say that they have played a role eight months ago in very heated discussions in the plenary on the urgency of the subject, but the truth is that eight months have passed until some have appeared, and yet today they are leaving here.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u408	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u409	The CDS presented its proposals and had proposals to discuss, but it is interesting that the matter is always very, very urgent and that we continue to postpone diplomas, and several of those discussed eight months ago remain postponed in this working group. It is the disparity between the demagogic declarations we have heard and the very different practices. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u410	Secondly, on the issue of the disclosure of offshore statistics, which the CDS has always voted in favour, as you will be voting today, I would like to say to Mr Eurico Brillante Dias: in this matter, the CDS has nothing, strictly, to hide, but the same cannot be said of its party.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u411	Don't look at me!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u412	It is not surprising that, after 10 days of inflamed declarations, some until the Prime Minister, have come to find out that several of the declarations that had not been monitored had already entered the Socialist Party government in 2016.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u413	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u414	It is extraordinary that you have omitted this information and distorted a discussion, which should have been serious, in order to gain political benefit.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u415	That's not true! It's distorting the information!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u416	It is, in fact, a very different way from our policymaking, the way of everything calling for nothing to be clarified. in this regard, Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u417	Madam Member, you have already exceeded your time and there is no flexibility from now on. Please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u418	Surely, Mr. President, I shall finish. As I was saying, you will have luck in this matter, Mr, because everything will be clarified. And by the way, the more embarrassing it becomes for your party. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u419	Mr. Carlos Santos Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u420	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is important to welcome today this Parliament for the significant step that is being taken around the fight against fraud and tax evasion. This struggle must be consistent, persistent and did not begin today, of course, already with the previous government, in the period 2011 - 2015. And I tell you what changes have been made and that have been very important for a real fight and fight against tax fraud and avoidance: the increase in the expiry period, from 4 to 12 years, in respect of offshore transactions, giving more time to the Tax Authority to collect the due taxes; the increase in the tax framework to penalise tax offences; the full tax on amounts transferred to offshore; the increase of 35 %, at the head of IRC (tax on the income of legal persons) and IRS (tax on income of natural persons), all income transferred from and for tax havens; and the increase in the rates of IMT (municipal tax on the onerous transfer of property) and IMI (municipal tax on property), where the entity is based in tax havens. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not fail to be satisfied with all the initiatives, but we must also remember them. We are, of course, very pleased that our initiative on the legal obligation to inform all transfers to tax havens has been accepted and approved unanimously. But what is important here is not to know that values have only been transferred to tax havens, the important thing is to know what the results, what the typologies, what the nature of these operations, so that the Tax Authority can, however, inform us of what is going on. The important thing is to know what the Tax Authority is doing with this information. And, to that extent, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I can only point out that recently the Socialist Party Member Eurico Brillante Dias referred to the issue of declarations which have not been verified by the Tax Authority. Mr, 90 % of these same statements...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u421	Sir, you've outlived your time. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u422	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, 90 % of these declarations are the intervention of the Tax Authority, the protection of this Government. As such, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we completely reject the accusations made to the Democratic Social Party...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u423	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u424	... as far as that responsibility is concerned. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u425	We shall proceed to the special vote on the proposal submitted by the Left Block on the addition of a new Article 3. the, and consequent renumberation, to the replacement text, presented by the Committee on Budget, Finance and Administrative Modernization, concerning draft law No 207 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Extends the obligation to register the shareholders of the banks to identify the effective beneficiaries of the entities participating in their capital ( BE ). [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] With regard to the same replacement text, we shall proceed to the vote, in particular, on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes held within the Commission. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] With the amendment adopted in the meantime, we proceeded to the overall final vote of the replacement text, presented by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization, on Bill No 207 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Extends the obligation to register the shareholders of the banks to identify the effective beneficiaries of the entities participating in their capital ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization, on draft law No 235 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Requires the annual publication of the total value and destination of transfers and remittances to countries, territories and regions with preferential taxation arrangements ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we now generally vote on Bill No 255 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establish measures to strengthen the fight against economic and financial crime by prohibiting or limiting commercial or professional relations or occasional transactions with entities based in offshore centres or non-cooperating offshore centres ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 257 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Increases tax rates for financial operations to entities subject to a clearly more favourable tax system under the framework of the stamp tax ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on Bill No 258 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Increases income tax rates and transfers to entities subject to clearly more favourable tax schemes under the IRC ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, Mr Secretary will take note of an opinion from the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u426	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of 1. the Central Court of Vila Real, Case No. 1122 / 16.1T8VRL, the Subcommittee on Ethics decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr. Luís Leite Ramos ( PSD ) to provide written testimony as a witness within the scope of those cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-10.u427	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] No objection, we'll vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are finishing our work today. The next plenary meeting will take place on Wednesday, 15 March, at 3 p.m., and will have as an agenda, in addition to political statements, the general discussion of the projects of lein. 438 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Determines the subjection of consumer disputes of reduced economic value to the necessary arbitration, where this is chosen by the consumer, and determines the obligation to set up a lawyer in consumer shares ( PSD ), 439 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Determines the establishment within the Directorate-General for Consumer Affairs of a national consumer registration portal for telephone advertising ( PSD ) and 451 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strengthen consumer rights with regard to the consumption of food goods ( NAPs) together with draft resolutions 717 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures promoting alternative means of resolving consumer disputes ( PSD ), 718 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to train, inform and monitor consumer rights ( PSD ) and 727 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote a more effective consumer information culture ( CDS-PP ). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you all a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 55 minutes.]]
