ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. Before we enter the agenda period, I ask Mrs Emília Santos to announce the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, the motions for resolutions Nos 53/ XIII ( 2 ). (a ) — Approves the Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Côte d'Ivoire on Air Services signed in Lisbon on 22 June 2016, which falls to 2. the Commission, and 54 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Protocol amending the Convention on Infringements and certain other acts committed on board aircraft signed in Montreal on 4 April 2014 which falls to 2. the Commission ; drafts of lein. 551 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Local Finance Act ( CFP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 553 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Reimposes the value of additional work and compensatory rest, deepening the recovery of income and contributing to job creation ( Tenth Fifth Amendment to the Labour Code approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 ) ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 555 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Ensure parental assistance to childbirth ( NAP ), 556 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Extends the free access to the school transport service to all compulsory school students by amending Decree-Law No 55 / 2009 of 2 March ( The Greens ), which falls to 8. Commission, 557 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Repeals the withdrawal from the list of countries, territories and regions with clearly more favourable preferential taxation schemes ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 558 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Establish the general principles of the municipal veterinary career by repealing Decree-Law No 116 / 98 of 5 May ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 559 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Provides for the return of moderate rates in the case of the user to give up emergency care by amending Decree-Law No 113 / 2011 of 29 November ( The Greens ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 560 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — It provides for the reimbursement of the value of moderate rates in the event of a significant delay in emergency care by amending Decree-Law No 113 / 2011 of 29 November ( The Greens ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 561 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Sets the allocation scheme and the amounts of the increases in supplements and other compensation based on the provision of work under risk, pessimism and insanity conditions ( Sixth amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June 2014 — General Public Works Act ) ( CFP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 562 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Exceptional regularisation of the situation of workers without legal links with permanent functions in local authorities ( CFP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and 563 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 15 / 2014 of 21 March in order to strengthen the rights of pregnant women during childbirth and puerpera after confinement ( The Greens ). The draft resolutions 927 / XIII ( 2 ) were also included in the Bureau. ( a ) — Need to provide the Country with an updated National Conservation Strategy for Nature and Biodiversity ( The Greens ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 928 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government act to ensure compliance with the rights of women in pregnancy and childbirth ( NAP ), 929 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the provision of water delivery in the National Health Service ( PAN ), 930 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — by rejection of CETA — Global Economic and Trade Agreement between the European Union and Canada ( The Greens ), which falls to 2. the Commission, 931 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Requalification and urgent expansion of the Basic School of 2. o is 3. the El-Rei D. Manuel I cycles in Alcochete ( PCP ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 932 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by the urgent resumption of rehabilitation works of the High School of Monte de Caparica ( The Greens ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 933 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — In defense of the archaeological site of the city of Balsa ( BE ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 934 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Strengthen measures to monitor pregnant women and puerpera in the National Health Service ( PCP ), 935 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — On the choice of water delivery in the National Health Service ( The Greens), 936 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Implementation of the trace between Virela-Fornelo defined in the environmental impact study of the hydroelectric use Ribeiradio-Ermida ( Os Verdes ), which falls to 6. the Commission and 937 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — by promoting islands in European cohesion policy ( PS ), which falls to 4. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's start the agenda. The first point is the general discussion of Bill No. 81/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Defines the objectives, priorities and guidelines for criminal policy for the biennium 2017 - 2019. For an intervention, Mr. Justice Minister Francisca Van Dunem has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, my respects. The Government here today presents in compliance with the Framework Law on Criminal Policy the proposal for the definition of objectives, priorities and guidelines on crime prevention, criminal investigation, criminal action and enforcement of penalties and security measures for the biennium 2017 - 2019. The proposal presented here captures its material basis for the information provided by the Annual Internal Security Report, RASI 2016, at a concerted reading with the prospective analyses with international origin, basically with origin in Europol, which identify the trends of crime in its different dimensions of materiality and gravity. As is stated in the basis that integrates the proposal, the general objectives of criminal policy for the biennium 2017 - 2019 aim to maintain the sustained decline in crime rates, in particular the serious and organized, through general prevention and special prevention, which includes, in addition to secondary prevention actions, clarification of the crime and the enforcement of criminal sanctions within a reasonable time, with a corresponding effect to a deterrent and pacifying time for the stabilization of Community expectations in the capacity of the security forces and services and the judiciary. Pointing out procedural differences for the crime of exceptional gravity, for serious crime and for the crime of medium and low density, the proposal safeguards the consistency between the preliminary phase and the subsequent phases of the criminal trial, like what already happened in Law No. 38 / 2009, and reconciles the definition of priorities with the new model of management of the courts. in the prevention plan, along with police programs directed to concrete criminal phenomena, we anticipate the prevention of risk with the express inclusion of the intervention of administrative structures for sectoral inspection. It gave centrality to the victim, giving priority to his protection and repair of the damage suffered by him. The prevention of recidivism by reintroduction of the agent was emphasized by improving the supply of reintegration programmes, both in the free environment and in the institutional environment. Finally, a list of criminal phenomena, prevention and priority research has been defined which is considered to be compatible, at the numerical level, with the implementation by the competent authorities of the priorities that will be defined here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u5	You have the floor to make requests for clarification, Mr José Manuel Pureza.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u6	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Minister, after listening carefully, I would like to ask you some questions concerning the diploma that is now under consideration. in fact, to define objectives, to define priorities, to define guidelines for criminal policy implies, in fact, the explicit diploma in its explanatory statement, a rigorous foundation and a foundation based on the best instruments of knowledge of Portuguese reality, particularly in the field of crime, of course. This is also mentioned in the explanatory statement, saying that the RASI data and also prospective data from international bodies are taken into account — Mr. Minister has just spoken about Europol. This provokes us a first perplexity that I would like to expose. On the basis of the concrete knowledge of Portuguese reality in the field of crime, how can the choice of this diploma be substantiated by reiterating the choice of the previous identical diploma, relating to the biennium 2015 - 2017, of the crime of terrorism such as the priority crime, the first priority in the field of research? I can even see that, in the area of prevention, this reality can be pointed out, but as much as I know, from the point of view of the concrete reality of crime in Portugal, research being the first of the priorities is something that clearly causes me, finally, quite strange, putting, in fact, the crime of terrorism as a priority above those that are producing a very worrying victimization, and here we can mention several, from domestic violence to crimes against children and young people, to crimes of violence in sport, to arms trafficking, but these crimes with materiality verified in the Portuguese context and which would therefore deserve, from our point of view, a priority, either from the perspective of prevention or from the point of view of research. How is it justified, Mr Minister, in this plan, that economic and financial crime is, from the point of view of research and prevention, relegated to a position, in the order in which the list of crimes is presented, the list of criminal phenomena, totally subaltern? According to what I could read, economic and financial crime is 16. the place in the prevention priorities and specifically money laundering is 11. the position, as regards research priorities. This is therefore a first perplexity. Secondly, Mrs Minister, and moving ahead rapidly on monitoring issues, Article 5. This diploma actually leaves out...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u7	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u8	I shall finish in very few seconds, Mr President, thanking you for your tolerance. Only one question is left out structures that are fundamental to monitoring by the Public Prosecutor's Office, namely the DCIAP (Central Department of Research and Criminal Action ) and the DIAP ( Departments of Research and Criminal Action ) Districtal or even higher courts. I believe that, from the point of view of monitoring, this also deserves, of course, the greatest doubt and I would like the Minister to clarify to us the criteria that chaired this choice. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u9	There are no more entries, so you have the floor to answer, Mrs Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u10	Mr President, Mr José Manuel Pureza, I thank you for your questions and understand your perplexity. However, I would like to tell you that, if it is true that a political signal can be found in this list, it is no less true that these crimes are all equally priority - it is precisely one of the major difficulties of these statements - which means that there is no categorization of priority according to the position of the indication of crime or the criminal phenomenon in this list. As for the first objection you have raised to me, it is the answer I give you. In fact, curiously, at the time when this was being discussed until it was suggested that it should be in alphabetical order. Why? Just because it was understood that such a question could arise. But what has been the practical reading of these criminal policy laws points to the fact that there is really no hierarchy of priorities between these crimes. On the second question, you are right. The rule of Article 5. the, when planning the intervention of the presidents of the comarcas and when providing for the intervention...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u11	Mrs. Minister, I ask you to finish, because you've exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u12	I will now finish, Mr President. As I was saying, the rule of Article 5. the, when providing for the intervention of the presidents of the districts and the coordinators, actually leaves out the space of the DCIP. in this perspective, it would be important to refer here to the Attorney General's Office in the councils. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u13	Mr Peixoto has the floor now for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The Minister of Justice, politically speaking, of course, is not the time when the PS criticized here, with some ferocity,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u15	Fierce? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u16	...the current law of criminal policy, which did not vote favourably. And he did not vote favourably because he understood that the structure of this law should not be the structure followed, that the best structure, philosophy and model below should be that of the previous criminal policy law. Therefore, the Minister does not need to waste much time justifying why she has abandoned, made a paper of what the PS then said about this matter and followed exactly the model of the current law in force, which was thought, put into practice and approved by the previous Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u18	It is commendable that good things were done before. But this, Mrs. Minister, doesn't mean that everything is irreprehensible, because it's not. The enlargement that the current government makes of priorities is a bit worrisome and perhaps an unreasonable thing. It is that, in part of priority prevention crimes, nine trends or criminal phenomena and increases nine or twelve, according to the criterion, in the priority research part. For this government it seems that everything is a priority and, when everything is a priority, Mrs Minister, nothing is a priority.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u19	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u20	It is like exceptions: if there are many exceptions, they become a rule and there is no more exceptions. This is what worries us. Another issue is the hierarchy of priorities, which Mr. José Manuel Pureza mentioned and which the Minister also answered in a disturbing way. Mr. José Manuel Pureza said: "Mr. Minister, it is strange that the crime of terrorism is first listed." That's it! That's it! So anyone, from the point of view of social alarm, social protection, community protection, is calling into question that the crime of terrorism is a highly priority crime? Oh, my God! Don't let him fall, please, Minister! In any case, the Government must do something else, which is as follows: do not place, in the hierarchy of priorities, crimes against property and economic crimes in the face of crimes against people, which is what it does in this proposal. This isn't right! I do not know whether or not the problem is in the letters of the alphabet, whether it is indeed a priority for the government, but I think it was important, for a matter of symbolism, of a message to the judicial authorities, that, for example, the crimes against the life and physical integrity of the authorities in the face of the crimes of extortion. I think this concern should be expressed. Therefore, Madam Minister, I think that the government has followed a somewhat simplistic criterion here, a little bit light, adding RASI's trends to the priorities. That's what you did! There was no more criterion! It's just that, if you did that, you should, too, for consistency,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u21	Mr President, you have already exceeded your time, so I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u22	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I was saying, if the government has done this, it should also, for consistency, take out of the priorities the crimes that have occurred in the RASI. In any event, Mrs. Minister, the PSD is perfectly available to welcome and work, with the Socialist Party, with the Government and with the other parties,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u23	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u24	... some refinements and improvements that this law, however, still deserves. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u25	Mr João Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Minister of Justice: I would like to begin by saying that this discussion does not allow many of the doubts that have emerged, almost for 10 years — in 2007 — when we first discuss the law of criminal policy priorities, following the adoption of the framework law of criminal organic. It is that of two, or we approve an inconsequential law not to question the autonomy of the Public Prosecutor's Office, not to block the separation and independence of the judiciary itself, or, in order to make the law consequent, in fact, we have to question those values. This has also been the problem, in fact, I think that Mr Peixoto's intervention reveals this very thing: the intention to give effect to the law is hardly compatible with respect for the autonomy of the Public Prosecutor's Office and with the powers of the Public Prosecutor's Office in matters of criminal action. Madam Minister, I would like to tell you that we continue to understand that this law is perfectly unnecessary and that, on the contrary, what should be done was not, from two to two years old, we resume discussion and approval of priority laws but, on the contrary, go to the organic law of criminal investigation and repeal, once and for all, the definition of this law. And I give you an example, Minister, of the need for laws of criminal investigation priorities, which was what happened between 2011 and 2015. In fact, it can even be said that one of the good things the previous government did in the area of justice was not doing, precisely where the government did not do something right. [[Mr José Manuel Pureza's laughs.]] The previous government—and the former Minister of Justice was well known for his criticism of criminal policy priorities— decided not to present a law of criminal policy priorities between 2011 and 2015. We asked : has there been no criminal investigation? No, he didn't! More: the Public Prosecutor's own opinion, presented at that time in 2015, said precisely that during this four-year period the Public Prosecutor, within his own competences in criminal action, did not cease to establish objectives, identify priorities, develop projects in accordance with these objectives and priorities, based on the perception of the evolution of criminal phenomena and the implementation of criminal policy options underlying criminal and criminal law. Therefore, Madam Minister, we, in fact, continue to believe that this law of criminal policy priorities is perfectly unnecessary, because it will always have to be the Public Prosecutor's Office, within the framework of his autonomy, to define those which are priorities, to allocate resources and to define the objectives according to all this. And this, Mrs Minister, puts us at exactly the same point where we were, at which we were in 2007 and 2009 and where we were, later in 2015, when the previous government finally presented a law that we, relatively correct in the forecast we made, soon identified as a law for the government to follow. That really confirmed. But we still face the same problems. The Minister here referred to RASI and, in fact, it contains in the annex that integrates the bill this reference to the Annual Internal Security Report as a basis for the Government to set the criteria for criminal policy priorities, but we ask, Mr Minister: is there any assessment already made by the Government regarding the previous law, how the priorities have been defined, how have the options been defined by the previous criminal investigation priority law? It is that we find in this law the repetition of many of the criteria and options that were followed in the previous law, presented in 2015, and some of them reason for criticism.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u27	I ask you to conclude, Mr. João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u28	Finally, Mr President, and not to abuse your tolerance, I will only give an example to the Minister : priority is no longer a priority when there is a risk of prescription, which is a problem with the previous proposals and also with that in Article 4 ( 3 ). o. As regards the involvement of the DCIAP and the DIAP districts in monitoring, which has already been mentioned here, and to which the Minister has already responded, we hope that it will still be overcome. With regard to the definition of terrorism as a priority, it had already come from the previous law, it was already a cause for criticism and it remained.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u29	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u30	In conclusion, Mr President, with this reference, there is a problem that persists in Article 15. the, with the special teams, which, being constituted by the Attorney General's Office of the Republic and remaining in the functional dependence of the Public Prosecutor's Office, also retain the hierarchical dependence of their members.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u31	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u32	Mrs. Minister, we believe that these problems are not in a position to be solved as long as we continue to discuss a law...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u33	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u34	... that is in fact a law of priorities, without being able to effectively define priorities, in order not to question the autonomy of the Public Prosecutor's Office, which is in fact...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u35	Mr. João Oliveira, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u36	...a value that we judge that cannot, in any way, be be be shaken. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u37	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Telmo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : I want to say briefly that this law is certainly not the resolution of all the logic and the whole strategy of criminal policy. And, of course, it is possible and even acceptable to criticize that a law of these always has so much scope, whether in prevention or in research, which allows the counter-argument of, being so much, basically, we do not know exactly what is priority. It is a normal, acceptable and reasonable criticism. On the other hand, Mrs Minister, I would like to tell you that, from our point of view, as opposition in these matters and in matters of State policy, we always seek to be responsible and rigorous opposition. We will not say that everything is wrong, when this law does not have a substantial change in relation to what was done by other governments, previously, especially those who had a majority supported by the CDS. There is no substantial change and not only there is no substantial change as there is, and I give you reason on this point, a sustained drop in crime rates and the values of crime. Therefore, recognizing this, I would say that in what is going well it is appropriate not to move, not to change much. And don't look at any criticism here, Mrs Minister, because I don't do the exercise we've seen here, even now, of always being, in principle, opposition. Mr João Oliveira, when he is in opposition, is opposition when he is in government, he is opposed to the previous government and therefore he is always in opposition. [[CDS-PP and PSD laughter.]] I do not do this exercise, Mrs Minister, and I do not think, since we are talking about the opposition, that Mr. José Manuel Pureza is in fact having a difficulty in understanding or blocking the issue of terrorism. Mr President, on the other day, he said that "metadata are not needed, because even there is the possibility of hearing in criminal investigation",...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u39	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u40	...that is, you did not realize that the investigation only occurs after the crime has already happened and that the metadata do not serve that, serve to prevent it. And now I call to the attention of the Government, the Minister for Justice and the Secretary of State for Parliament's Affairs, so that it is time for Parliament and the Government to work on the proposals which have been adopted — that of the Government and our own — so that our information services can quickly have access to metadata, a fundamental tool for preventing terrorist crimes. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u41	But if there is a crime of terrorism, as has recently happened in several European countries, such as France or England, for example, and we hope that it will not happen in our country, is this not a priority, Mr President? Is it on someone's mind that this investigation isn't a priority? Let's think about what happened recently in England. Isn't the investigation of this crime a priority? Obviously, it's a priority. But there is still a question, Mrs Minister: whether this research hierarchy is indeed a hierarchy or whether it is merely indicative, i.e., it is not clear, in its aboriginal allusion, whether it is a hierarchy or not. by reading the bill, priority research crimes are considered, among others — and this is a novelty — the crime practised in a prison environment. in this case, there will be a reason, there will certainly be a support, there may be some doubt on our part. With regard to the other criminal investigation crimes, we have no doubt, Mrs. Minister. We can only welcome the positive increase in violent crime in the school environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u43	Furthermore, the CDS has always presented initiatives, typifying and aggravating all crime committed in the school environment, including, obviously, the environment and the surroundings of educational establishments, because we think it is particularly serious whether it is theft, whether it is drug trafficking, whether it is any crime that can affect children. We can only agree that priority research crimes are added to violent crime in the school environment, as well as protection, which is often not even accompanied in this Parliament, the integrity and life of our agents of authority. That way, we don't see a bigger problem. We see a need to clarify the hierarchy and the effective implementation of these priorities.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u44	Mr President, I would ask you to conclude what should have happened already.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u45	And that's how I'm done, Mr. President. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u46	Mr Jorge Lacão, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u47	Mr President, Mrs Minister for Justice, Mr State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs Members: First of all, we should understand the legal and constitutional budget in which this legislative initiative is based. This budget is clearly set out in Article 219 of the Constitution. the, which, for the most part of what is at issue, states: « The Public Prosecutor's Office is competent under the law to participate in the execution of the criminal policy defined by the sovereign bodies(...) ». So, what we are doing here is expressing strict respect for a constitutional prescription. And, in doing so, we are showing what should be leaping in the eyes of all of us, in a conscience of citizenship: all policies, including prevention and criminal investigation policies, involve democratic responsibility. And this democratic responsibility is fully assumed by the legal framework in which this matter is being handled. to the Government it is necessary to submit a proposal, after hearing the relevant entities of the sector, to the Assembly of the Republic it is necessary to consider this proposal and at the same time Parliament should be aware of the submission by the Attorney-General of the Republic of the implementation report in the implementation of the criminal policy guidelines. Is there any possibility of affecting the autonomy of the Public Prosecutor's Office? The answer is obvious: don't even think! Nor do you think, because what this Law establishes, and well, is that the Attorney-General of the Republic, under the circumstances of the Attorney-General of the Republic, has the responsibility to establish generic directives and instructions to ensure the degree of compliance appropriate to these guidelines and therefore no interference on our part with the determination of any specific investigation process. Understanding all this and not making easy confusions, in any way—but in no way, I am underlining it—is at stake the institutional autonomy of the Public Prosecutor's Office. What is at stake is the possibility of, through a good critical reading of criminal data — in particular, those provided by RASI (Annual Internal Security Report ) — we can adapt the prevention effort and research effort and have the judicial authorities of the Public Prosecutor's Office in a desirable manner with the assessment of the degree of priority of processing of proceedings, even in the process of trial — a matter in which the presidents of the districts already have their own competence, moreover, signalled in this Act — and, at the same time, putting criminal investigation bodies in coherence with the achievement of these objectives, we establish a complete and coherent line, from democratic responsibility to the guidance of the Public Prosecutor and to the degrees of implementation of prevention and investigation at all levels.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u48	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u49	I will finish, Mr. President. That's how it must be and I want to make vows so that it may be. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u50	Since the Government no longer has time to respond, we turn to point two of our agenda, with the general discussion of Bill No 90 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The fourth amendment to the Criminal Code, approved by Decree-Law No 400 / 82 of 23 September, to the fifth amendment to the Code for the Enforcement of Penalties and Privatative Measures of Freedom, approved by Law No 115 / 2009 of 12 October 2009, to the first amendment to the electronic surveillance law, approved by Law No 33 / 2010 of 2 September, and to the second amendment to the Law of the Organisation of the Judicial System, approved by Law No 62 / 2013 of 26 August. To present the bill, you have the floor of the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government has committed itself to the programme which has presented to this Parliament to review the concepts of imprisonment for free days and other short-term sentences, in cases of low risk, intensifying the evidentiary solutions and also to take the use of the continuing prison sentence in housing with electronic surveillance, in cases where judicially determined, with the possibility of exit for work or training activities. It is in compliance with this compromise that we present here this proposal. We have opted for the total elimination of prison sentences for free days and the semi-tention regime, following, in fact, a procedure used by Spain since 2003, with good results. In fact, the information of the prison services gives us a high rate of non-compliance of the prison for days off and the lack of logistical and human conditions of the prisons so that that penalty can achieve the resocializing effects that it intends to extract. On the other hand, the level of application of the Semitenance Scheme is currently residual. at the moment there is only one case throughout the system. This picture enables us to conclude that the existence of prison sentences for free days and of semidetention was producing few or no resocializing results. The amendments now proposed aim to extend, deepen and clarify the residence, giving it a political-criminal role of relief. On the one hand, we have won its nature as a non-prisoner of the fulfilment of the short sentence and, on the other hand, the possibility of its application in cases where the prison is specifically fixed not more than two years. Despite the proposed amendments, the procedure for the application of penalties remains relatively identical. It took advantage of the opportunity to introduce in the Penal Code some amendments that he lacked. In view of the time available, I will limit myself to two. The first is the amendment to Article 240. to adapt it to Framework Decision 2008 / 913 / JHA, of the Council, on the fight against certain forms and manifestations of racism and xenophobia. In addition, another amendment introduced relates to the sanctioning regime of forest fire crime officers. in this segment, the proposed amendments have in mind a penal sanctioning response that is, at the same time, more appropriate to the protection of legal property protected by the criminalization and reintegration of the convicted person into society. To this end, it is proposed that the scope of the relatively indeterminate sentence be extended and that the obligation to remain in the dwelling is laid down, with the supervision of electronic means by remote control. With the same aim of making deprivation of liberty the last ratio, it is also envisaged that the suspension of the execution of the detention and the freedom to prove may be subject to the obligation to stay in the dwelling, with surveillance by electronic means of remote control, in the period coincident with the highest incidence of fires. This possibility will certainly facilitate the judgment that, with the suspension of the execution of the detention, the purpose of the measure is achieved and that the placement of the agent free for proof enables the purpose of the placement to be achieved, in an open environment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u52	Having no requests for clarification, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Manuel Pureza, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u53	Mr President, Mrs Minister for Justice, Mr State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs Members : I would like to make two comments on this legislative initiative on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group. The first concerns the prison system and the criminal system. The Left Block has attached great importance to this matter because it is a reality of testing a culture of human rights, of a state of democratic law, of respect for the dignity of people. In fact, we have a triple problem with the prison system, to which Portuguese society is slow in giving a satisfactory answer. First, there is a very disturbing degradation of the physical conditions of the penitentiary park. And we are well aware that at the initiative of the Left Block, under the 2017 Budget, the Government has approved the preparation of a report with a timetable of priorities, with the quantification of resources, etc. Secondly, there is a worrying loss of centrality of the resocializing function. There is a degradation of the conditions of exercise of this function, there is a loss of quality of the careers of social reintegration technicians themselves, and this is quite worrying. Thirdly, and above all, I would say that there is a problem of composition and nature of the prison population, a young, poor population condemned by small crime, which lives on in the prison system, without generation of alternatives. It is not therefore a problem of overcrowding, it is a problem of a culture of imprisonment which somehow took account of the judicial system itself and in which alternative measures have not had an effective ability to have the resocializing effect. Therefore, we welcome the return with this set of measures, and with others that are necessary, to the centrality of resocialization and to take out of the prison environment those who do not actually have to be in prison to fulfil their sentence, of course that this function will only be effectively fulfilled if it is accompanied by a set of other measures that have to do with the response to the disqualification of the prison park, the qualification and strengthening of the valence of social reintegration. We therefore welcome this part, so let us say, of the diploma. We also welcome — and this is the second remark — the adjustment of the legal type of crime in Article 240. the Criminal Code, by empowering incitement to violence and hatred for reasons of racial, sexual or religious discrimination. It's something we deserve to record and greet. Converge, moreover, with a bill that the Left Block brought to this plenary, of criminalization of racist behaviors, and which opposes regulation, which has so far been dominant, through counter-ordinations and therefore punishment through fines. in the debate in general, our bill was strongly criticized for pointing to the logic of the criminalization of racist behaviors. But I am glad that these criticisms, today on this initiative by the Government, are transformed into still limited approximation, but it is already a path of approximation. This is because — and I will finish — as we have had the opportunity to say in the debate, in general, of our bill, and I quote: « Racism is an attack on the dignity of people and the practices of racial discrimination must be the subject of maximum social and legal disapproval. And that has a name: crime. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u54	Mr José Silvano, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u55	Mr President, Mrs Minister for Justice, Mrs and Mrs Members: This legislative initiative, Mrs Minister, has commendable reasons — those that have just stated — namely resocialisation, the high rate of failure to comply with these measures in the prison system, the lack of logistical and human conditions in our chains. These are the credible reasons that are clear in the bill. But it also has a major reason, which Mr. Blogger of the Left has just stated quite clearly, which is the fight against the overcrowding of prison establishments and attenuating the system of operation, which is being broken down, of our prisons. The proof that this is the main reason is Mr. Minister's own statements made some time ago in 1. the Commission, is the intervention of the Left Block on this subject and are the strategic guidelines set out in the Directorate-General for Prison Services, which states that one of the priorities for 2017 is to review the concepts of prison for free days and other short-term penalties. All of this, Mrs Minister, to say that the main reason for this legislation is to solve the problems of the prison system, including lack of human resources, lack of material conditions, lack of dignity of prisoners and lack of security of our prisons. This is, in our view, the main reason for this legislation. That is why, Madam Minister, we should say the reason why this legislation is presented instead of pointing out the secondary reasons. However, we agree with the main measures taken in this area — which is clear — and we must mention two, in particular, that the Minister here has brought us. The first concerns the issue of the empowerment of the hate crime provided for in Article 240. o. I must say that this is not an initiative that arises by government activity, it is the transposition of a directive of the European Council which was adopted and which is transcribed to this article, empowering this crime in the Criminal Code, and well because from here on this crime has its autonomy and the penalties are much worsened. And, Madam Minister, we essentially agree with the addition of Article 274. o -A on forest fire crimes. We understand that what has been done is useful and, at this time, that we are going through fires, it can be useful to stop indefinitely those defendants who have already set fire and caught prison penalty. at times when more fires occur,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u56	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u57	...to have them in prison, or in an establishment, if they are impedable, it is useful so that they cannot be, then, another ignition factor of the fires. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u58	For an intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u59	Mr President, Mrs Minister for Justice, Mr State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs Members : These amendments to the Penal Code — which are not many, but are important — that bring us today to the Minister, some of them, in particular the elimination of prison sentences for free days and the regime of semi-tention for stay sentences in housing with a means of remote control, vulgar with electronic bracelets, from the PS electoral programme. We've been talking about this for almost two years, and now, finally, it comes up. However, it appears without studies, without previous comparative experiences and without opinions, which leaves us to have a little discussion, because this is not a matter of mere things and we needed some basis in order to be able to decide strictly what is at stake.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u60	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u61	What needs to be explained, Mrs Minister — and that is a question I have left to you from now on — is whether the purpose of the penalties, the purpose of general prevention and special prevention, in addition to the question of resocialisation, to which I will then refer, is fully fulfilled. In other words, I wonder if the aims of general and special prevention are best met with this amendment. Madam Minister, in this House everyone realizes, but it is also necessary to explain out there—and this is the second question I ask—if the detention with an electronic bracelet in housing is better for the awareness of the defendant for the crime he has committed, so if this better performs this function, and if, on the other hand, the community in general is more relaxed with this measure, i.e. if, instead of prison, people go home with electronic bracelets, this gives greater security to the community in general.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u62	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u63	Mrs. Minister, this is what we like to know but that we don't know and we don't have opinions to perceive the goodness of the solution. We're not saying it's bad, but we're asking about the goodness of the solution because we have no other way of understanding. Moreover, as regards the resocializing function, if, in theory, we understand it perfectly, we have a doubt, which is related to its effectiveness. We all know that resocialization agents are scarce. We also know that the Minister has opened a contest and that there are more agents now. But these resocialization agents that exist at this time serve to meet current needs. That is what he has always told us and has always been called into question that there are not enough agents at the moment to meet the current needs. Increasing the use of the electronic bracelet, it seems to us that problems arise, i.e., there are missing, in the same, resocializing agents.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u64	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u65	What I am asking very directly, Mrs Minister, is whether it is planned to hire more resocializing agents and whether this has supported the next State budget, for example, or in another context. With regard to the other amendments, we agree, but we regret that it has excluded from the crime of incitement to hate and violence what the CDS has already proposed in this Chamber and which is for discussion in the specialty...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u66	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u67	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u68	I shall conclude, Mr President. I would like to ask the Minister why she did not include something that has already been approved in this House and that has to do with the inclusion of persons with disabilities in hate and violence incitement crimes. It is a pity that you have not done so, but I hope that we can agree to include this matter in our specialty. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u69	Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for Justice: This proposal deals in fact with some of the most sensitive issues, so let us say, from the point of view of criminal law and the prison system, because they basically move with the options which must be based on the objective of resocialisation, which must be the primary, central objective of any criminal system. Therefore, Madam Minister, when we are discussing the nature of the private or non-custodial sentences of freedom, how, from the legal point of view and the options of the law-enforcer to the specific case, these options are in line with the objectives of general and special prevention, when we are discussing the conditions of resocialization that prisoners find in the prison system, depending on the nature of the penalty that is applied to them, we are discussing central issues of the criminal system and the prison system and are fundamental aspects in order to successfully achieve the objectives of resocialization of the defendants who are condemned by the practice of crimes. These are complex matters, but I would still like to refer to four or five aspects which seem essential to us, hoping that this time our intervention could be understood by the CDS, since they have not been able to understand exactly what we said. Mr Minister, I would like to begin by saying the following: the determination of the nature of the penalties and the conditions of operation of the prison system are different matters. It does not seem to us that the issues relating to the overcrowding of prisons or to their conditions of operation, which do not guarantee conditions of resocialization to prisoners, or other problems that arise from the point of view of the operation of the prison system, should result in changes in the nature of the penalties that are considered in this or in that circumstances. Furthermore, we have an initiative on an investment plan in the prison system that allows the system to adapt the conditions of operation to these objectives greater than the resocialisation of prisoners so that this matter is dealt with properly in the area in which it is to be treated. We believe that these are criteria that should be reserved for that rather than for the rest. With regard to the amendments which the proposed law points out, i.e. to the nature of the deprivation of liberty and the conditions under which the CFP may apply, we essentially follow those proposals which the Government advances. Fortunately, the Government today considers the reversal of some options that have been made in the past to our criminal functioning, in particular an option made in 2007 for the period of suspension of the prison sentence between one and five years. All the evidence pointed to the need for review and adequacy based on experience, which actually confirmed the concerns that were raised at the time. So we greet the government for that. We also salute the Government for the option of maintaining, with a completely subsidiary character, the application of the deprivation of liberty sentences and, nevertheless, within them, preferably point out to those who do not imply the imprisonment of the convicted person in a prison establishment, opting for other solutions, not only from the point of view of social reintegration but also from the reintegration of the prisoner, who have indeed manifested themselves more appropriate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u71	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u72	I shall conclude, Mr President. We believe that we still need to take into account some concerns that have been expressed here — concerns that we follow without alarms — in particular on general prevention considerations which, in many circumstances, some of these options may arise and which, we believe, must be strictly considered.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u73	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u74	We also follow the view that, with regard to the fight against racism and xenophobia, if there is a need to change the type of wrongfulness in Article 240. that of the Criminal Code, when working in this sense, not in a logic that is safe and punitive, as often happens, but in a logic of adequacy of the type of criminal law so that in the courts justice can be done with this assurance that the law provides, without doubt, the coverage of such behaviors. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u75	Mr Jorge Lacão, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u76	Mr President, Mrs Minister for Justice, Mr State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs Members: It is the duty of policymakers, both on the side of the Government and the Ministry of Justice, in particular on the side of Parliament, to be able to assess the degree of satisfaction of those objectives which, at one time, were considered appropriate for the pursuit of certain purposes. However, this assessment, although in a partial field, demonstrates to us, by all known reports, that the prison system for free days and that of the so-called 'half-tenance' have not satisfactorily achieved the objectives proposed or from the point of view of general prevention — ensuring security conditions for the community — or from the point of view of special prevention, through measures to support the resocialization of this type of people involved in the fulfilment of penalties. We now have the possibility of reconciling the existence of a restrictive regime of freedom and, therefore, a penalty that does not cease to be serious because it implies limiting one's freedom and mobility, with the possibility of ensuring the effectiveness of compliance through electronic control systems, the degree of reliability of which is already widely demonstrated, and at the same time, of being able, in an innovative way, to achieve complementarity with applied means of resocialization, particularly aimed at younger levels, offenders under the age of 21 or those who may, by the nature of the situation assessed in particular by the court, reconcile a restrictive solution of freedom but with possibilities for social integration, effective work, training or the possibility of continuing studies. However, having integrated solutions that allow these various conjugation responses is certainly much better than, for example, taking primary offenders into prison environments, for which, in a very dubious way, one can do and achieve the objectives of resocialization that we all want to pursue, at least in theoretical terms. I therefore believe that we are here at a time of excellent implementation of a measure presented by the Government Programme, that I am convinced, regardless of some specific doubts, that it has all the potential to deserve the broadest political consensus of this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u77	To reply, Mr. Justice Minister Francisca Van Dunem has the floor to whom intervention times have been given by the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government's conviction is that, in fact, the measures proposed here have to do with not so much with the issues of overcrowding, which have been mentioned here, but with the problem of the prison population, i.e. what is incarcerated and when is incarcerated and, in addition, the criminal effects that may result from the maintenance or inclusion into the prison environment of primary agents and which are caught in the meshes of justice by practice of crimes of lower criminal density. That is actually the point. Obviously, by opting for this route, we need to make a great investment in resocialization programmes in the open and closed environment. with regard to these programmes, I would also like to say, because the question has also been raised, which, in fact, last year, not only acquired electronic control instruments at a distance, but also admitted people for social reintegration and this year we have another competition because we have this forecast. In any case, I would like to make it clear that at the time you were working on this project, studies were carried out concomitantly to assess the impact of this measure — about 500 prisoners are involved — in terms of both electronic control needs and agents. This is all perfectly planned and controlled. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u79	We will move on to the third point of our agenda today, which is the assessment of the 2016 Annual Report of the Ombudsman. Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Ombudsman is a body of independent administration, with a rich and valuable history of 42 years in our democracy. throughout this institutional period it has been a respected and omnipresent bulwark in the defence of citizens' rights and, in particular, in the protection of fundamental rights. Although removed from specific binding power, the Ombudsman has achieved its objectives through what the current Provider has already classified, in my view in a rather happy way, as "the persuasion of the word", also accompanied by the respectability that virtually all its protagonists have grown in the last 42 years. It is also in this sense and for this purpose that the Ombudsman regularly disseminates the activity he carries out through the Annual Report. This Report is the mirror of the Supplier's action and the proof of the current necessity of this independent administration body. This report has some innovations in relation to previous reports. First, it is a report consisting of 213 pages, but, with its two annexes, it has a total of 633 pages. By direct comparison with the 2015 Report it is verified that a new chapter on the core of the child, the elderly and the disabled person was introduced, an innovation that the PSD Parliamentary Group welcomes. The indicators highlighted in this report are very varied. I shall excuse myself to say everyone, they are all important, but I would stress that there is a logic of reduced procedures, complaints, electronic, written, verbal and presenceal, including the exposures and the number of archives, as well as the number of expectations. With regard to matters on which the public's exposures and complaints have most affected, it is found that, in the procedures, social security matters are first of all 21, 3 %; taxation with 18, 9 %; the public employment relationship with 10 %; and the administration of justice with only 7, 5 %. In addition to this logic of reducing complaints and public exposures, the Ombudsman made three requests to the Constitutional Court within the scope of the powers legally conferred on him. at the hearing held in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, on 14 June, Mr. Ombudsman, in addition to having presented his report and the fundamental concerns which he is insisting on, highlighted two concrete complaints. The first in relation to the premises of Provedoria. He said that these facilities were in no way suitable for the reception and reception of disabled citizens. Secondly, Mr.Provedor renewed a complaint that is not new, in relation to the National Mechanism for Prevention of Torture, which was committed to Provedoria in 2013 but was not accompanied by an increase in funds or the increase in logistical support. The PSD Parliamentary Group believes that during the years of the austerity in which the country sought to escape the financial and budgetary distress in which others left it, these restrictions would eventually be understandable. at this time, when we have tried to get out of this somewhat dramatic situation since 2014; at the time when the end of austerity and all restrictive measures are announced, particularly those relating to the rights of citizens, it is absolutely incomprehensible that this very important function of the National Mechanism for Prevention of Torture does not have the financial envelope to accompany the dignity of this task.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u81	Mr President, you have already exceeded your time, I ask you to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u82	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr. Provedor also announced that supply architecture has been completely dematerialized, which is also to highlight and praise. Mr President, if I may, I would also like to say that the Ombudsman has taken root in the administrative and political-constitutional architecture of our democracy, has legitimized himself for his action to defend the citizen and is a real thermometer of the state of relations between the citizens and the State, and this also derives from the Ombudsman's natural uncompromisingness with regard to political power. In addition to its formal legitimacy, the Provider has gained material legitimacy and we welcome the presentation of this Report. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u83	For an intervention, Mrs Susana Amador of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2017, the Ombudsman celebrates 42 years at the service of democracy, the rule of law and fundamental rights. With a technical structure of quality, prepared to receive complaints from citizens against the illegalities, abuses or arbitrariness of public authorities, thus guaranteed the fundamental rights and freedoms and protection of human rights, the Provider is still a servant of justice and law, strengthening, through his activity, the democratic culture and the dignity of the human person. As Catarina Sampaio Ventura points out: « The Ombudsman is a guardian of the rights of persons, whether on his clothing of taxpayers, of beneficiaries of social security, of consumers, of economic agents, of workers, of retirees or retirees, of students, among others». The report today under review reflects, with undeniable quality and density, this relevant activity developed in 2016 and shows all these "clothes" of the above-mentioned citizens, who resort to this body in an unequivocal sign of confidence in the reception and treatment of their complaints and consequent guarantee of their rights. The 38 183 requests received in 2016 denote this same trust, credibility and consolidated prestige of this institution, which we warmly greet. It is also noted that 4026 telephone calls were received through the Children's Line, the Elderly Citizen and the Disabled Person, as well as more than 5800 services were provided by the Information and Public Relations Division of this institution. The year 2016 was also the year of the new computer system of procedural management, of the full functioning of the integrated citizen service project and was a year of turn since the trend of penance growth was reversed, down 7%. It is also very positive that all the agility and efficiency is due to the fact that many of the processes have been resolved in the first month, 22 %, and 45 %, 4 % of them have achieved the repair of illegality, leading to the filing of the complaint. The most common issues are social security, taxation, public employment and justice. The themes with higher absolute growth are housing and urbanism, education and prison affairs. in the area of housing, I would like to point out that it is worth highlighting the visit of the UN special rapporteurs on the right to housing, who are asking us to invest more in this issue, which, as we know, was one of the most negative social rights suffered by the recessive policies on the right and that the current government has been investing, and the work of the housing working group, which in Parliament has developed a remarkable activity. with regard to workers' rights, there is a decrease of 14, 5 % of procedures, but I would like to point out that there are still very high complaints about the refusals of continuous and flexible working hours, which makes it difficult to reconcile so much necessary between working life and family and personal life, which so much penalises women, in particular. Furthermore, conciliation, in addition to being a constitutional right, is a priority in the area of gender equality, both in the European Union and Portugal, and that the Sub-Commission on Equality accompanies with particular zeal. It is also worth highlighting in this report the improvement of the duty to cooperate with social security, as well as the improvement in the uniformization of procedures for the inclusion of citizens in social security. Positive developments have also taken place in matters relating to the nationality and rights of foreigners. The Provider also made 12 recommendations. Mr President, we could not fail to underline and value the Ombudsman's activity as a national human rights institution, where the highlight goes to the project The Ombudsman, the prisons and the 21st century : a diary of some visits, which led the Ombudsman to visit 10 prison establishments, which deserves reflection in this House on the question of visits by the children of prisoners, their humanization, food, among other questions. Through the National Prevention Mechanism, 53 places where private or limited people are found in their freedom and subsequent recommendations have been visited. Finally, we would like to highlight the liaison function between the national and international levels in the defence of human rights and welcome the Portuguese presidency of the Ibero-American Federation of Ombudsman, which was assigned to the Ombudsman in March 2016, and the first Portuguese report focused on poverty, which is, in fact, an essential topic of Agenda 2030, a very relevant issue when poverty and hunger continue to kill thousands of human beings daily. Once again, in his initial message, the Provider did not fail to highlight the topic of refugees, the culture of human rights and the risks and oppressions that suffer globally, underlining, and well, the Provider who Portugal affirms as an example for the world in the reception and integration of migrant persons, being one of the countries of the Union with most displaced refugees, one of the most prominent. Finally, says the Provider, in Reasons of Reason ( II ), the following : « The Provider does not legislate, does not govern, does not judge, but does something different, and it is his mission to go further and deeper ». We therefore hope that the Ombudsman will continue to go deeper, bringing about its informal, direct and close nature, and that he will be reunited with the citizens who seek him every day in order to defend his fundamental rights, which we also declare, in an unquenchable way, here in this Parliament and in this parliamentary group! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u85	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: From the rights enshrined in the law to its practical effectiveness there is often a distance which is too large — the distance that power asymmetry allows and feeds. For this reason, the effectiveness of rights remains a major challenge for the democratic rule of law that we want to be. This primarily passes through two lines of action: the first is the coherent defense of the effective universality in access to the justice system, thus opposing the colonization of the justice system by a small set of large users; and the second is precisely the one that goes by providing the Ombudsman with human resources, material resources and also financial means for a performance that meets their responsibilities, not only as an listener but also as a National Mechanism for Prevention against Torture and National Institution in the field of human rights. The 2016 Report, as in the previous reports, shows us with surgical rigour, I would say, the areas where the rights of the weakest are most often hostage to their effectiveness of the power of the strongest. This is the case with social security, taxation, the public employment relationship and the administration of justice, above all other areas. But I would like, on behalf of the Left Block, to highlight two aspects of this Report and the activity of the Provider that are, in our view, of the greatest importance. First, its activity within the scope of the visibility given to the issue of human rights in the prison system. The visit to 10 prison establishments in 2016, the opening of two procedures on the initiative of the Ombudsman — one on food and the other on visiting rights — the 53 visits made to places of detention or deprivation of liberty, within its function as a National Preventive Mechanism associated with the Additional Protocol to the United Nations Convention against Torture, are an important mark of this Report. The second area is the rights of immigrant citizens. Of course, the defence of the rights legally established in the area of social security for these people is of the greatest importance. At the hearing we had with Mr Ombudsman, he was also alerted to the need for the rights against the extreme delay of deadlines for the allocation of a residence permit to these persons. Certainly, statistical indicators are of the greatest importance for the evaluation of this report, but for us, by giving importance to these indicators, we give even more importance to firm words in defending the rights of the weakest. For example, in the recommendation of the Ombudsman against demolition in the neighborhoods of Santa Filomena and 6 May, in Amadora ; or in the request for a subsequent review of the constitutionality of legislation which violated workers' rights to just reparation when these people are in condition of accidents at work or occupational disease. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Ombudsman himself wrote in this Report the following: « (...) It is up to the Ombudsman to state, with the strength resulting from his parliamentary election and from the specific mandate entrusted to him, that the universal and indivisible nature of human rights cannot at any time be called into question and that the courage to act in defence of these values is the only way to fight against the populisms that put them in crisis». They are very correct words, to which we associate ourselves. It is with deep complicity with the reason for these words that we congratulate the Ombudsman and that we associate ourselves with the cultural sense and political sense of action that his 2016 Report portrays us. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u87	For an intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor. Could not connect with command "%s": %s.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Several arguments have already been put forward in this Chamber regarding the Ombudsman's report. The Ombudsman is, moreover, a very important constitutional symbol, one more of the faithful of the balance of our democracy, an already robust democracy, guarantees the exercise of rights, freedoms and guarantees and has always been — any of the Ombudsmans we have had the pleasure of knowing — a fundamental actor in the scrutiny of access to fundamental rights of citizens and also in the scrutiny of the functioning of public services. This report, as it has happened last year, gives us some positive and reassuring signs. And, as Mr José Manuel Pureza said earlier, the statistics here are important. It is important to understand, through this activity, what really works, but also what goes wrong. I would also like to note positively, for another year, the decrease in the number of complaints and the increase in the percentage of cases in which it is concluded by the repair of illegality or injustice. It is a sign that the Ombudsman has played an active, interventional role and has functioned as a guarantor of access to fundamental rights. however, a concern which is recurrent needs to be noted here, and that is why it is even more disturbing. last year, we have already pointed out it and this year it is not new: for two years now, the largest number of complaints has been about the social security system, the taxation regime and the public employment relationship. And this already comes, as I said, from last year and the previous year. It is therefore up to the Government to play a more active role in this area and to improve access to these rights. It is, in fact, that these have been matters that have been permanently concerned and with the greatest number of complaints from Mr. Provider. It was therefore important for the Government to have an active role in this area, so that, next year, when we are discussing again Mr Provedor's activity report, we can record a relative decrease in the number of complaints in these areas. Moreover, I would also like to point out that, compared with last year, there has been an increase in the number of complaints about urbanism and housing, education and the prison system. And here I would like to focus, above all, on the prison system. We all know the complaints, which have also been recurrent, regarding the functioning of our prison system. Mr Provedor pointed out the worsening conditions of the Portuguese prison system in relation to overcrowding, feeding, housing, violence, health care, contacts and visits of prisoners' children. in fact, of what we're reading here, nothing seems to work in prison establishments. Apart from overcrowding, everything else — housing conditions, food, violence, health care, contacts and visits of prisoners’ children — has been called into question. So nothing works in our prison system.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u89	It's not from now on!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u90	It's true, it's not from now on! But the problem has worsened and this trend has to be overcome. And the truth is that the government has been in office for two years and has not yet moved on this issue—I also remember that in the State budget for 2016, this government has even reduced the value attributed to meals for inmates, which is one of the signs that this prison system, which was already ill, has worsened with this government. This is where I want to make the point, and this is where I want to keep a record that we need to intervene, active and quickly, in order to improve the prison system. And overcrowding does not fight by removing people from prison when they actually have to go to prison. So what needs to be improved is the prison system itself and solve the problem upstream and not downstream. Therefore, I would like to highlight from Mr.Provedor's action this activity, within the framework of the National Mechanism for Prevention against Torture, and congratulate him on the follow-up he has given to this issue, which is very important and needs to be addressed urgently. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u91	Mr Jorge Machado has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, I would like to begin by stressing the importance of the Ombudsman, the relevant role that he plays, not only at the constitutional level, with the tasks he has, but mainly in his role of linking to the specific problems of the Portuguese. I believe that this report quite mirrors this same reality, in the sense that it is understood that the Ombudsman has an intermediary relationship between the problems that the Portuguese people live with the central or local administration and the companies for the concrete solution of these same problems, and the appeal that is usually made to the Provider for the resolution of these specific problems. I would like to record, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, that the Report is clear when it states that there were 30,000 requests, of which 6875 resulted in concrete complaints. There is an effective and widespread reduction of the different indicators of the number of complaints and the processing, which has to be recorded. We also wanted to point out here, as already mentioned, that much of the complaints take place in the area of social security, with 21 %, in taxation, with 18 %, 9 %, in the public employment relationship and in the administration of justice, immediately below. I would also like to note that it is not by chance that we have enormous problems and a large number of complaints about social security, because we have had successive years of disinvestment and degradation of the capacity to respond to social security, a policy of management of genuinely disastrous frameworks and human resources, we have had a PSD/CDS-PP government that has promoted a gigantic dismissal of human resources, people in social security, and all this has had an impact. It is true that social security is a serious problem of people's accessibility to the Administration, that is, there is no response by social security to many requests made to it, which naturally leads to complaints by the Provider. It's a problem that needs to be solved and that we wanted to signal here. We would like to highlight from the report the fact that Mr.Provedor has made a number of visits to prisons. In fact, 10 prisons and 53 places of detention have been visited, which is also very important for us, given the nature of the establishments and the imperative need to follow these realities. Also here are very significant structural problems that need to be recovered but which are essentially the result of what were strategic options of successive governments, and not only of the previous one. I believe that the report is quite exhaustive and elucidative in relation to priorities, so we wanted to end up alerting only to a fact which was transmitted to us by Mr Provedor at the hearing in 1. the Commission, and taking into account Mr President and Mr Sr. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are going to discuss, then, is a petition that addresses the issues of inclusion. The fact is that supply facilities are not accessible to people with disabilities, which, if not so dramatic, would be ironic. It is that Mr.Provedor receives numerous complaints from people with disabilities about problems of accessibility to public services, and he himself is not accessible to people with disabilities. I believe that the call made by the parliamentary group was towards the resolution, as quickly as possible, of this problem so that indeed Mr.Provedor's facilities would have this same possibility of accessibility by all, and this is a matter of the most basic justice. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u93	Mrs. Members, as the Bureau no longer registers requests for speech for an intervention, conclude the assessment of the Annual Report of the Ombudsman 2016. We therefore move on to the fourth point of the agenda, which is the assessment of petition No 90/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — They request the creation of the « National Day of Inclusion » on June 17 ( Ana Cristina Pinto Rebelo dos Santos Abrantes Pires et al.). For an intervention, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to leave a special greeting to the subscribers of petition No 90 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), whose first signature belongs to Ms. Ana Cristina Pinto Rebelo dos Santos Abrantes Pires, followed by another 4500 petitioners, requesting the creation of the « National Day of Inclusion ». This petition was examined in the Committee on Labour and Social Security and, in accordance with all the requirements required, it was sent to the President of the Assembly of the Republic for agenda and discussion in plenary, which is happening today. The express request is based on the principle that social inclusion is a right and a duty of all of us, a right and a duty for which the Socialist Party is very aware and awake—so much so that it has not only created a State Secretary for the Inclusion of Persons with Disabilities as it has taken various specific or transversal measures in the area of inclusion. This petition, which arrived at the Assembly of the Republic in 2016, begins with a great virtue, to be a warning of civil society, concerned about the phenomena of exclusion, because, in reality, when we talk about marking inclusion through a dedicated day, what we are effectively doing is to alert and raise awareness about the fight against exclusion, which is necessary to do. If we can say that many days have already been assigned and that we even have December 3, which marks the International Day of Persons with Disabilities, the truth is that conscientiousization for inclusion is something different, because it is much more ambitious, since it covers a far greater number of problems. And I would like to highlight three areas that demonstrate that it is good to point out exclusion and work for inclusion that deserve the efforts of civil society and the involvement of the government: I speak to you about the refugee area, a drama that has affected thousands and thousands of people; I am telling you about exclusion because of difficulties in the area of learning without any limitation being diagnosed; I am telling you about another example that, as technologies advance, will generate more exclusion situations, which is digital exclusion, a phenomenon of our days. I gave three examples, but I could have given a lot more. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Petitioners, I used the term "exclusive" to understand how important inclusion is in our practice of life and in this sense I wanted to let it be recorded that the Socialist Party considers the meritorious and deserving initiative of our full support. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u95	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the 4501 subscribers of the petition requesting the creation of the « National Day of Inclusion » in the person of the first subscriber, Ana Cristina Pinto Rebelo dos Santos Abrantes Pires, who is present here together with others, of which I stress Dr. António Bagão Félix, who uses to greet. If there is a theme that should unite us all—and this has also been our commitment—in addition to all ideological differences, it is precisely that of inclusion. Inclusion, whether of persons with disabilities or of persons with limited social resources or others, has to be one of the priorities of any social policy, because the citizens to whom these policies are addressed are in a situation of particular vulnerability. For this reason, we do not understand the Government's repeated lack of reply to the offices addressed to it by Parliament on this petition. It is not acceptable, in our view, that of the five invited entities to comment on the content of this initiative, the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security has been the only one not to respond, although it has been invited to do so for at least twice. of the other entities — Economic and Social Council, National Confederation of Deficiencies Agencies, Portuguese Disability Association, Portuguese Federation of Training and Employment Centres of Persons with Disabilities, except the Portuguese Disability Association, all were in agreement with the claim of the petition, which clearly demonstrates the acceptance of much of the sector. The CDS has always looked at, and continues to look at, policies aimed at these citizens as a priority, both in government and in opposition. That is why we have already held a debate on disability policies in this legislative session, in which we have presented about 20 initiatives and the overwhelming majority has been approved. We praise the capacity of this House to have been possible an understanding beyond the strict party cycle. Thirteen of these measures were even published two days ago in the Diário da República, of which I highlight: the creation of a working group with the aim of studying ways of exercising the right to vote by voters with disease or significant physical disabilities; the creation of a single document demonstrating the degree of disability; the defence with the institutions of the European Union of the non-discrimination of the remuneration of persons with disabilities in projects financed by Community funds; the implementation of information and signalling services, including the creation of an on-line public platform; the creation of the Portuguese platform of self-representatives of persons with disabilities by the end of 2017, which should be heard whenever the legislation is intended; the reformulation of support to companies that hire people with disabilities; the valorization of the training institutions of care dogs.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u97	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u98	These were the measures adopted here, but, as far as we have sought to do, the truth is that there is a lot to be done. And if we do not know that there is already a day of consecration of disability, the fact that there is a day that promotes and remembers the importance of inclusion is certainly a matter that deserves, firstly, applause for the initiative it enshrines and, above all, the commitment to effectively promote inclusion.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u99	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u100	Of course, we in the CDS are careful and committed to the process that this petition also promotes. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u101	Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor now for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: From now on, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, I would like to congratulate the petitioners and, of course, to welcome the concerns they express about the need to ensure effective social inclusion. The construction of an inclusive society, so often referred to, requires concrete measures that guarantee the realization of fundamental rights every day, requires policies that guarantee the constitutional right of all children and young people to education in an inclusive and supportive school, with the human, material and pedagogical means necessary and appropriate to ensure the follow-up of their specific needs. Inclusive education means that all children and young people, regardless of their characteristics, origins and conditions, can learn together in public school in their communities. The construction of an inclusive society requires policies of labour integration of people with disabilities that enable them to live with dignity in their homes, participate in the life of their communities with their family and friends, promoting their autonomy and independence. It requires policies that promote employment with rights, value wages and ensure better distribution of wealth, in an effective fight against social inequalities. It requires policies of effective social protection that are not made on a path of care. It requires measures that ensure access to health care for all and that take into account specific needs, such as those with disabilities, for example, technical aid, therapies, rehabilitation and follow-up treatments. It requires that the necessary conditions be ensured for the National Health Service to fulfil its role, fulfilling the constitutional right to health. An inclusive society requires the fulfilment of everyone's right to mobility and also, in the case of people with disabilities more specifically, requires policies that eliminate physical and architectural barriers to communication and information, as well as existing limitations on access to transport. It requires measures to ensure that everyone has equal access to work, social protection, health, education and knowledge, but also to housing, culture, sport, leisure, active participation in political and social life. An inclusive society requires measures corresponding to its dimension and to the meaning of combating social exclusion and discrimination and, where appropriate, any form of discrimination, whether of persons with disabilities, children and young people with special needs, or of those whose economic, social and cultural reality may mean the denial of fundamental rights. On all these matters, the CFP has intervened and put forward concrete proposals in the Assembly of the Republic. The construction of an inclusive society is inseparable from the fulfilment of fundamental rights, in fact enshrined in the Constitution of the Republic of April, and from concrete policies that translate these rights into the life of all, not in one but every day of the life of all people. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u103	For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party, I would naturally like to greet the 4501 petitioners who addressed the Assembly of the Republic, through this petition, requesting the creation of the « National Day of Inclusion », and, if I may, I will do so in the person of the first subscriber, Mrs Ana Cristina Pires, who is here and whom I take advantage of to greet. The PSD Parliamentary Group takes these matters very seriously and believes that there is still a long way to go in terms of inclusion, but we all know that this is the only way we can do it together: political power, citizens, institutions. The inclusion of people excluded from society is a matter for all of us, together; it is a matter of society that we all must, together, realize permanently every day, so as to continue our efforts to deepen a more just society, a more solidarity society and a more equal society. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have a duty and a collective duty to ensure that people who are excluded, people with disabilities or disabilities, children, the elderly, refugees fully enjoy all human rights and fundamental freedoms in exactly the same way as other citizens. For the PSD Parliamentary Group, the full inclusion of people living outside society is a programmatic commitment that should unite us and that is why this is a matter that we regard as a reserve of unity, a reserve of unity that will always be above political struggle and any partisanism. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are available for the necessary consensus, in order to design more and better policies for social integration and inclusion. The Social Democratic Party is a humanist party, to mobilize-CL against inequalities, whatever they are, and will always be committed to building a more just and inclusive society for all, a society that, above all, values diversity and makes it a force. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u105	I now give the floor to Mr José Soeiro for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u106	Mr President, I would like to begin by welcoming the petitioners and petitioners present here on behalf of the Left Block. Concerns about social inclusion have gained a growing expression in the public space and social discourses, which does not happen by chance. in reality, more and more people feel alienated and discriminated against in access to fundamental goods of society, and speak of goods and material resources that are essential for survival, but also of cultural and symbolic goods, speaking of the limitation on access to full citizenship, which is a condition of autonomy and emancipation. Concern about inclusion rightly calls on us to pay attention to the indivisibility of civil, social and political rights. Each of these rights cannot exist without the others, under the penalty of having an amputated citizenship, i.e. having first and second citizens, which is obviously offensive to democracy. There is also a culture of meritocracy, which presents society as a world of competition that presses and selects the fit ones and places, responsible them, the victims of exclusion. This culture has been an obstacle to a true inclusion policy, because 'naturalises' inequalities and tends to justify exclusion as inevitable. in fact, the issue of inclusion necessarily has to articulate dialectically these two poles in tension, which are the right to equality and the right to difference. To use the happy formulation of the Boaventura de Sousa Santos, « (...) we have the right to be equal when our difference makes us inferior and we have the right to be different when our equality decharacterises us», adding, moreover, that the equality that interests is therefore the one that recognizes the differences, without which these differences produce, nurture or reproduce inequalities. The paradox of the inflation of speech on inclusion in recent decades, particularly in Europe, is that this discursive inflation has been concomitant with a logic of worsening inequalities and perhaps austerity policy — this machine of producing exclusion with all the social suffering that it has brought — is the best example of this paradox. in fact, the production of this inequality is part of the intrinsic logic of the great systems of oppression, the logic of the exploitation of predatory capitalism, sexism and patriarchy, colonialism and its racist and xenophobic manifestations, capacitism. Each of these systems produces inequalities and exclusion every day and it is these inequalities, all of them and each of them, that need to be combated. I therefore conclude by saying that honouring the concerns of petitioners and petitioners, including, must, from our point of view, be a concrete commitment in education and health policies, employment and urbanism policies, access to fundamental goods, redistributive policies, strengthening the social state, while promoting this equality and respect for diversity, an equality not only of opportunities, but of conditions and concrete access, at every moment, to the resources and social goods to which we all have a right and which must be distributed. This is the compromise of the Left Block in this Parliament. This is the commitment of the Left Block to each petitioner and each petitioner. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-22.u107	The Bureau no longer records requests for intervention, and I therefore close the discussion of petition No 90/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a). I should like to inform the plenary of tomorrow's agenda, which will start at 10 a.m. the first point of the agenda is the general discussion of the proposals of lein. 83 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Establishes the status of the company recovery mediator 84 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the extrajudicial scheme for the recovery of undertakings, 85 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the legal arrangements for the conversion of credits to capital, 86 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amends the legal regime of entry, stay, exit and removal of foreigners from national territory and transposes Directives 2014 / 36 / EU, 2014 / 66 / EU and ( EU) 2016 / 801, 87 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the tax procedure and procedure, and draft law No 429 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the regime for the regularisation of undocumented foreign citizens ( CFP ). of the second point is the joint discussion, in general, of the proposals of lein. 88 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Partially transposes Directive 2014 / 91 / EU as regards the functions of depositaries, remuneration policies and sanctions, and 74 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Regulates credit recovery funds. of the third point is the general discussion of Bill No 89 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Authorizes the Government to regulate the access and exercise of the activity of credit intermediaries and the provision of consulting services in respect of credit contracts by transposing Directive 2014/17 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 February 2014 on credit contracts to consumers for housing buildings. The fourth point follows the joint discussion of draft law No 555 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Ensure parental assistance to childbirth ( NAP) in general of draft resolutions Nos 928 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government act to ensure compliance with the rights of women in pregnancy and childbirth ( NAP ) and 929 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the provision of water delivery in the National Health Service ( PAN ) of draft law No 563 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 15 / 2014 of 21 March, in order to strengthen the rights of pregnant women during childbirth and of puerpera women after hospitalization ( The Greens ), in general, and draft resolutions 934 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strengthen measures to monitor pregnant women and puerpera in the National Health Service ( PCP ) and 935 / XIII ( 2. ( a) — On the choice of water delivery in the National Health Service (The Greens). Finally, there will be a scheduled vote at 12 noon, not at the end of the sitting, as was provided for in the previous version of the agenda. I wish everyone the continuation of a good afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 16 hours and 57 minutes.]]
