ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 10 hours and 3 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. Mrs. Members, the first item on the agenda is generally the discussion of Bill No 53 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Review the securities law sanction scheme, transpose Directive 2014 / 57 / EU and Implementing Directive ( EU ) 2015 / 2392 and adapt the Portuguese law to Regulation ( EU ) No 596 / 2014. To present the bill, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Finance have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In recent years the Portuguese have felt the consequences of the unscrupulous conduct of some professionals from banking institutions and financial intermediaries. The dishonest behavior of some caused irreparable losses to many Portuguese people, who trusted the financial system and their proper supervision to apply their savings. But it also caused losses to all Portuguese taxpayers due to the gigantic impact that support for the financial system had on the public accounts. The nationalization of the Portuguese Business Bank, the liquidation of the Portuguese Private Bank and the resolution of Banco Espírito Santo and the Banco Internacional do Funchal are outstanding cases of unscrupulous behaviour—and, in many cases, criminal—which will remain in Portugal's collective memory for the coming decades. Indeed, the last decade has contributed to the loss of credibility and to the mistrust of Portuguese in financial institutions, in supervisory authorities, but also in justice. The promotion of financial stability is essential for the proper functioning of the financial markets and for the proper allocation of savings. Without confidence in the financial system there is no adequate financing for the economy, limiting economic growth and job creation. Therefore, the Government cannot remain indifferent to the traumatic experience of the recent period. The concern of Portuguese is the concern of the Government. The revolt of those who were deceived by the dishonest conduct of some and invested their savings in financial products, which clearly did not understand, is our revolt. But to strengthen confidence in the financial system, it is not enough to find solutions so that past mistakes do not repeat themselves. You need more. It is necessary to punish, in an exemplary way, those who have adopted dishonest conduct. It is necessary to punish those who take advantage of the financial illiteracy of many in favor of the illicit enrichment of some. It is necessary to put in jail those who cause misery to those who, defenseless, trust the savings of a life in the hands of professionals who, in the name of high prizes, have no stake in destroying, irremediably, what many have threatened with so much sacrifice.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u3	How many are there? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u4	The current legal framework is less than the complexity of today's financial reality. If, in so many cases, what has destroyed the savings of so many Portuguese does not fill the crimes provided for in the law, then it is urgent that the law automatically punish the conduct through which so many have been deceived. In numerous cases, supervisors regretted not having the legal instruments necessary to prevent, detect and punish illegal conduct. For, then, this legislative initiative provides supervisors with the necessary tools to enable them to do so later. It was in this spirit that the Government prepared this bill. These are the principles that force us to legislate, in response to the increasing complexity of today's financial reality. in this proposal, the Government also reconciles the transposition of Community directives on transparency and market abuse. essentially, this legislative initiative reinforces the fight against financial crime, extending the practices and realities defined as crime and significantly increasing the penalties envisaged. In particular, this legislative proposal characterizes a new type of crime : « the use of false or misleading information in investment capture ». From now on, it is very clear that aggressive practices of saving savings based on information manipulation are crime. The law we propose imposes greater rigour and requires quality to the information provided to those who apply their savings. This law provides justice with a new instrument of punishment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But we don't stay here. The system of penalties for securities is also extended. This law places new practices that take advantage of new information technologies and that are detrimental to the interests of those who apply their savings. These practices are absolutely ruinous for the confidence of the financial system. This bill also pays particular attention to the sanctions regime, both prison sentences and monetary sanctions, effectively dissuadeing the practice of the crimes identified.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u5	Mr. Secretary of State, you've outlived your time. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u6	I will finish, Mr. President. We propose, among other measures, that the maximum limits of monetary sanctions be shifted to the triple of the benefit obtained with the practice of crime. We cannot tolerate 'crime compensation'. We also propose a period of ban on the negotiation of financial instruments for those who adopt improper or unscrupulous conduct and consider sanctions, which are complemented by procedural measures to allow those responsible to be identified and punished promptly.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u7	I ask you to conclude, Mr Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u8	I shall conclude, Mr President. Increased sanctions and mechanisms to ensure greater procedural speed are governed by a sense of proportionality and adequacy, with efficiency in application not to compromise the constitutional limits and principles of the rule of law. Strengthening regulation is essential to regain Portuguese confidence in financial markets and to ensure appropriate savings and investment decisions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u9	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Mr Under-Secretary of State and Finance described the spirit in which this legislation is made. In fact, from our point of view, we must look at this problem of two prisms: on the one hand, we must take into account the need for prevention and to avoid repetition of cases such as those which unfortunately have become too frequent in Portugal; and on the other hand, we must take account of the penal aspect, its sanction, its effective sanction. Only when we are able to ensure that "guilty does not die" is that we can again have confidence in the system and justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u11	We can't just leave the banks in the hands of the bankers!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u12	This is absolutely essential. It is also good to be said that, either from the point of view of this effective sanction or, often, from the point of view of delay, from what took place until justice and the system acted, the examples are not particularly edifying.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u14	This is true either from the point of view of judicial decisions, or from the point of view of some decisions, for example, of supervisors, who ended up annulled in the courts, as was the case with some related to the CPB. Therefore, from this point of view, from the spirit that I think you have presided over the implementation of this legislation, it has our agreement. I'd just like to leave two comments. First of all, we have, for example, voted on the case of BES and we have made several recommendations, many of which are not, today, long ago, fulfilled. It would be important today that we discuss this legislation, that we could also discuss a much larger package — and the CDS will not fail to present proposals in this area. Secondly, I also think it would be important — and the legislation is accompanied by many opinions, many of which are quite technical and there is a repair that is done, I no longer remember which of the opinions, but which I found particularly relevant, which is the need for systematization — not only to try to prevent all concrete cases, but also to ensure that legislation is made in a way that is accessible and effective. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u15	For an intervention, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In good time the Government brings this bill to Parliament. over the past few years, this House, as Mrs Cecilia Meireles recently said, has been confronted with processes of nationalization and banking resolution, which have left a very pernicious and very negative damage. They are people, citizens, who, in good faith, have acquired financial products with little or no information, exposing their savings to high-risk financial products. In good rigour, if, in many circumstances, we cannot say that the law has not been fulfilled, the truth is that it permeates Portuguese society with an idea of deception, an idea of information abuse, an idea of information manipulation which cannot leave this House and, of course, the government indifferent. Therefore, this bill, also within the framework of the adoption, in national legislation, of Regulation No 596 / 2014 of the European Union, which concerns the abuse of information, comes in good time to respond to Portuguese society but to part of the problem only to part of the problem. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, it is, in good rigour, welcoming this initiative with great pleasure that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group naturally supports this bill. But we cannot but say that, in the context of the transposition of the Financial Instrument Markets Directive, of its revision, more needs to be done. More needs to be done with regard to the adoption of the recommendations adopted by the parliamentary committees of inquiry as important to safeguard customers and workers from banking institutions. That is why the Socialist Party, as you well know, launched, last week or two weeks ago, an initiative in this area to protect customers and protect workers from the banking sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u18	Therefore, from this bench, you have our support for the adoption of this bill, to make it legal and so that we can have a regime that punishes those who abuse good faith and the trust of unqualified investors who expose their savings to financial products that they do not know and of which they do not perceive the risk. So I say to you, we are ready for the next step. And the next step is, in the transposition of the Financial Instrument Markets Directive, strengthening information to customers and restricting or even restricting access to certain financial products from unskilled investors. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u19	Mr Rubina Berardo of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretarys of State, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: The financial system exists to serve the real economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u21	Lately, it's more the opposite!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u22	This is an elementary assumption that, unfortunately, has not always been respected over the years, as too many scandals and controversies around the financial markets have shown. In addition to the extra-border crises, we Portuguese taxpayers too know too well the consequences of this reversal of the relationship between the financial system and the real economy, as the committees of inquiry of the past have been able to ascertain—and it is enough to recall the case of Banif's injuries, to mention at least the latest case. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u23	The PSD argues that restoring the necessary confidence in financial markets is based on the promotion of a real economy — open, transparent, efficient and sustainable. Aiming for a more dynamic national capital market means not only giving correct incentives to economic growth, but also inciting clear rules of transparency and consequence to financial markets. To this end, it is essential to continue to strengthen international financial regulation, a long process which was born precisely from the hard lessons learned from past scandals. The PSD therefore follows the pressing need for this proposed law of the Government, which transposes Directive 2014 / 57 / EU and Implementing Directive ( EU ) 2015 / 2392 and adapts Portuguese law to Regulation ( EU) No 596 / 2014, all relating to market abuse—in fact, following the European Commission's instructions given this week regarding the six months' delay of Portugal in this transposition. This review of the securities sanction scheme aims to ensure that, in cases of abuse of privileged information and market manipulation and in the case of use of false information in the collection of investment, there is a clear, robust and harmonised framework at Community level for the applicable sanctions measures. The PSD argues that only fully harmonised regulation in this area will enable the national capital market to act on an equitable basis at Community level. Harmonized sanctions are thus fundamental for a zero tolerance policy with market handlers, which distort the founding principle of service to the real economy. thus, capital markets as well as their own confidence in the judicial system are strengthened rather than fragmented by divergent criminal frameworks within the European Union. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u24	Mr Miguel Tiago, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The CFP, on the proposed law presented to us by the Government and on supervision and regulation in general, has had a complaint about the farce which supervision and regulation itself ultimately represent. The proposal for a law, in fact, like all measures for the expansion of supervisory capacities and sanctions regimes, does not prejudice the functioning of supervision and regulation or, of course, the functioning of the financial system. But they will also not have the support of the CFP to create the illusion that these measures solve the problems. It is true that there is a set of behaviours in the financial system which, as we have witnessed, must be limited, must be sanctioned and whose supervision must be more active. However, continuing to pretend that this alone will solve the problems or make them stop happening is essentially throwing sand into the eyes of the Portuguese. It is also not to want to assume that the first responsibility is political and is that of those who — as the PS, the PSD and the CDS defend — want to leave the banks in the hands of the attackers, i.e. leave the banks in the hands of the large private groups, who have come to plunder national wealth and who have raided the banks inside, in which is the greatest assault we have ever witnessed. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, how many times have we heard in this House: 'This time it is! , « There will be no other BPN! "We shall not see anything else similar to what happened with BES! , « There will be no other BANIF! "? And the truth is, we say that until there's the next one. This will certainly be a new occasion when we are all saying that supervision and regulation will finally solve the problem when, in fact, the problem will not be solved as long as the financial system and the capital market continue to be based on speculation and being in the hands of bankers and private groups serving large economic groups. Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Finance, there are numerous issues raised in the opinions, of which I stress the opinion of the CMVM (Commission on the Market in Securities) which identify inadequacies, ineffective changes... Finally, there are criticisms and contributions which, we believe, should be taken into account in the work of specialty, in the Assembly of the Republic, for which the CFP has already expressed its full availability. As regards this proposal for a law, the CFP essentially does not believe that all problems will be solved. You may come to improve a little bit the supervisory farce, but, of course, it won't hurt either. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u26	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : We welcome these proposed amendments to the sanctions regime applicable to bad practices, generally speaking, on the financial markets and on the sale of financial products. They are in practice of the few visible and material actions we have, after the cases of BES, BANIF, BPN, among many others who have punished people who had their savings in banks, but also the public record. It is very important to sanction, it is very important to adequately sanction the practices that are inflicted on these banks and on these savers and it is important to take responsibility and create the notion that there is accountability when bad practices exist. It is also important, we find ourselves, to have an answer, a word, any help to the problems that already exist. And the problems that already exist are the damage of BANIF, they are the damage of BES, they are the emigrants of BES, which are the practical result and the victims of these mis-selling and bad-sales practices, with bad faith, of financial products. But there are other aspects that are very important when we talk about bad financial practices. The first is that it is important to sanction, but it is even more important to prevent the matter and action that lead to the sanction. And in order to prevent the action leading to sanctions, it is necessary to change the rules for the sale of financial products. The Left Block has already submitted a number of proposals that are not makeup, which want to go to the bottom of the matter, preventing the sale of products related to the capital of banks selling these same products, trying to separate entities that can sell more risky products from entities that do not sell risky products, trying to limit the emission possibilities of products that are directed to qualified investors and that will invariably stop at the hands of unqualified investors. in the past, these proposals were rejected here, in the Assembly of the Republic, even though they came from the experience of the cases of BES and BANIF. Let us hope that now, with this willingness that the PS has shown to also put forward proposals in this direction, we can renew this debate and, indeed, do something that will respond to these problems. Secondly, it is also necessary to rethink the regulatory and supervisory model. The relationship between CMVM, which regulates financial markets, and the Banco de Portugal does not work. It is necessary to rethink supervision so that it can cover both areas, it is necessary to have much more intrusive supervision and regulation and to be able to limit and cut by root the practices that the financial system has carried out and that have contributed to its own instability. This is where the Block diverges from the diagnosis that Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Finance brought us. It is that it was not only the bad practices of the financial system that led to the crisis, it was the very functioning of the financial system, because excessive leverage, lack of transparency, excessive risk, security, all the practices we know today have led to the financial crisis — all of them — were legal and had regulatory, supervisory and penal framework. The problem arises when these banking practices are not only allowed, but are put at the service of the private accumulation of the owners of the banks and not at the service of the real economy, as Mr. PSD told us here.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u28	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u29	I'm done now, Mr. President. This is only settled with the public property of the bank. Only then will the interests of those who own the banks and the interests of the economy be aligned, because they will be the same interests, i.e. the public interest. This, we think, is the only solution to the financial system problem. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u30	With no further inscriptions, we close the discussion, in general, of Bill No. 53 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). of the second item of the agenda is the joint discussion, in general, of Bill No 56 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Adopts a transitional measure to reduce the special payment on account as provided for in Article 106. the Code of Tax on the Income of Collective Persons, and of Bill No. 402 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — creates the conditions for the replacement of the special payment on account by a simplified scheme based on technical-economic coefficients by sector of activity ( CFP ). As we await the arrival of Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, if there are no objections, the CFP will make the presentation of its bill first. [[Pause.]] Since there is no opposition, Mr Paulo Sá, of the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since the special payment on behalf of the CFP has been created in 1998. over the years, giving voice to micro and small entrepreneurs, beating us for their elimination, presenting successive proposals in this direction. This persistence of the PCP has borne fruit and soon the special payment on its own will disappear. This is an important victory for micro and small enterprises, for which the CFP has made a decisive contribution. The special payment on account, corresponding to an advance to the State on account of the taxation of profits not yet verified, affects particularly micro and small enterprises. The injustice of maintaining this tax regime is flagrant and has been identified for a long time, but successive governments have been delaying its replacement by a more just and appropriate regime. But finally, in the State budget for 2017, on a proposal from the CFP, the final elimination of the CFP and its replacement by an appropriate scheme for the clearance of corporate assets by applying technical and economic coefficients by economic activity was approved as well as the immediate reduction of the minimum value of the CFP to €850. This was also an important contribution of the CFP to improving the situation of micro and small enterprises, to which we put forward other proposals regarding the simplification of tax obligations, the facilitation of access to credit and the reduction of costs with production factors. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government has submitted a proposal for a law aimed at the elimination of the CFP by 31 December 2018 and its replacement by a simplified system for determining the taxable amount within IRC (tax on the income of the public) as well as an additional reduction in the value of the CFP, which will be paid by the companies during the transitional period. thus, the government gives concrete expression to the proposal of the CFP adopted in the State Budget for 2017. Obviously, the CFP follows the proposed law of the Government, considering that the new simplified regime should be based on technical-economic coefficients by sector and industry and that its preparation should be accompanied by representatives of micro, small and medium-sized companies associations and representatives of accounting associations. It is precisely in this sense that the draft law submitted by the CFP complements the Government's proposal. We propose that these technical and economic coefficients be supported by a committee that integrates representatives of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and accountants, who, with their involvement, will not fail to make an important contribution to the creation of a new system of taxation that is fairer and more appropriate. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, after almost 20 years, the special payment scheme on account, which is so harmful to small businesses, will end — and will end with the decisive contribution of the CFP. We are, of course, pleased with this result, but we will not rest, because there is still much to do in defense of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, a defense that is an integral part of the patriotic and left-wing policy proposed by the CFP to the Portuguese people. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u32	To present the bill, Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, Fernando Rocha Andrade.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The special payment on behalf of IRC has been in force for almost 20 years as a temporary measure to ensure the fight against tax fraud and avoidance and the payment of IRC by micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. It seemed to be happening what happened so often to temporary measures in the Portuguese tax system, which are prolonged in time much more solid than the definitive measures. Of course, as a temporary measure, which has always been subject to legitimate criticism, extends over time, its legitimacy within the system is decreasing. This is therefore a good opportunity for the second time in this economic year to introduce a reduction to the amount of the special payment on its own. in the case of the Government proposal, the reduction focuses on those companies which have employees and for this universe of about 120 000 companies who actually pay special payments on account of this payment, both in their minimum amount and in a proportional component, thus equally distributing this reduction throughout the whole universe covered by 120 000 companies, leading to a reduction in the tax revenue we estimate in about 35 million euros this year. Therefore, it is EUR 35 million unless these companies will pay this year, already next month, if the Assembly of the Republic legislate in this direction. At the same time, the Government believes that this process of reducing the CFP should finally be accompanied by the intention announced by the legislator in 1998, which is the creation of a simplified regime which essentially provides for the declarative obligations on IRC and which is therefore appropriate for the taxation, above all, of micro and small enterprises, simplified regime, the plan of which the Government estimates to enter into force as at 1 January 2019. It is also this effort to reduce the tax burden on businesses, particularly on small and micro-enterprises, that the Government calls for Parliament's approval. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u34	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, since there are no inscriptions, let's move on to the next point... [[Pause.]] However, Mr Luís Campos Ferreira of the PSD Parliamentary Group was included for an intervention. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, what we are discussing in this House could be a remedy, but it is not. It is a remedy for a remedy. I mean, you don't bring anything here to approve, what you bring is to amend! This only exists because the government has opened a hole, caused a hole.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u36	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u37	The Government, under the Orders of the Left Block, decided to increase the minimum wage without cautioning that it would be in line with the growth of national productivity and the growth of the economy. The government imposed this increase on the social partners and the method was to accept and shut up. But as I knew that the increase was unsustainable and that it had to get compensation for the companies, it committed the slightity of signing an agreement to lower the TSU (unique social rate ). This pseudo-agreement came to Parliament and what happened? Furou. It was therefore necessary to arrange a remedy for the remedy. And that's how we get to the reduction of the special payment on our own. It was this substitute and compensatory measure that the Government found for the companies, a recapitulated measure and, above all, which adds little or no strategic value to the Portuguese economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u38	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u39	That's all, and that's all, that we're talking about today. Having arrived here, the Social Democratic Party is available, as it has always been, to discuss the reduction of the special payment on account or any other measure integrated into a structural recovery strategy of the economy, we have even voted in favour of similar measures. in the same way, we reaffirm that we are in favour of increasing the national minimum wage, provided that it is not an artificial measure supported by social security or taxes, but that it is the result of real economic growth and a consolidated increase in productivity.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u41	It was the PSD that increased the national minimum wage 20 times over these years. It was the PSD that frozen the national minimum wage right at the end of the rescue program, where the former Socialist Government pushed the country. Therefore, My Lords, this House is not divided among the little ones, who want to increase the national minimum wage, and the bad ones, who do not want to increase it. That is infantility, pure demagogy and even a little hypocrisy. [[PSD applause.]] The question is another: under current conditions, is the increase set by the government sustainable? Well, let me quote: "Of course, we do not argue, nor do anyone, that this rate of growth of the minimum wage is a sustainable pace. » I repeat: this rate of minimum wage growth is not sustainable! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, don't make these faces, because that could be my answer, but it wasn't. That was the reply of Minister Vieira da Silva. [[PSD applause.]] If this increase were sustainable, would the government have to give compensation or bonus to businesses? We're facing a direct counterparty. If it was sustainable for the economy, it would make no sense if the State were to replace companies and support it. Therefore, they do not count on the PSD to pass this law.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u43	But in this area of compensation and compensation, we are not alone, we have strong parliamentary support. And I quote: "We do not consider that there is a need for alternatives. The picture of the increase in the national minimum wage was verified(...) did not have to drag any bonuses or compensation for the companies, for the employer' — Mr Jerónimo de Sousa's statement! But we're still not alone. And I continue to quote: « We are against any kind of measures to compensate for the increase in national minimum wage, aimed at low-wage companies », because « any measure to support companies that push them to pay low wages is wrong » — a new ally: the Left Block, through Mr. José Soeiro. In view of this, and already knowing the meaning of the PSD vote, which is against, the curiosity we have is knowing how they will vote today the PCP and the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u45	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u46	I'll be done right away, Mr. President. As I was saying, or deny what they said less than a month ago when they ensured that they refused an alternative to compensate for the national minimum wage or we are going to attend a « number» worthy of the best contortortors of Cirque du Soleil. [[PSD laughter.]] That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if any of you have really been wrong in your vocation!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u47	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u48	I only ask for a small extension, Mr President, given the interruptions that occurred during the game. [[PSD laughter.]] last year, the Social Democratic Party presented a set of structural measures to relaunch the economy on a solid and sustainable basis, recovering the reformist momentum that so many results have brought to the country and that OECD reports have signed.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u49	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u50	We don't approve remedies. Our vocation is not to mend. Our vocation is to reform. Thank you very much for the extension, Mr President. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u51	It was a mega-intervention, Mr. For an intervention, Mrs Jamila Madeira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: We are here today discussing the special payment on our own, because the current government has taken up a plan within the 2017 State budget, a commitment — not a remedy, but a plan and a commitment — of progressive reduction of the special payment on its own by 2019 and the creation of a simplified system for collecting material. last week, the right brought us to this House, in an attempt to anticipate this debate, some more proposals. In fact, it was nothing new and so I understand the dialectics of the cure. This is a regular circuit on the right: when in opposition, it propagates everything and something else, but when in power, it is affected by a problem of a very serious memory failure, not to say that it suffers from an executive dyslexia, promoting actions always contrary to those that have ever been in opposition. [[P.S.'s applause.]] When in the opposition, the right claims the need to suspend or reduce the CFP without further concerns, but once in power, it never promoted the creation of a simplified taxation regime or, at least, nothing that looked like tax relief — whether at this or at another level. On the contrary, the right has always greatly aggravated the weight of both this tax instrument and the tax burden which, in general, affects the Portuguese economy and companies. Even more serious: when you pass through the Executive, the right even came to propose an increase of €1000 to €1750 of this instrument, without any concern about tax justice or the country's economic and business reality—and we all remember very well that at the time it was already tax exhaustion. They were worth the country—at that time, in fact, as today—the PS proposals, which made it possible to avoid this rise and to make the reduction now. The PS has always tried to stop these impulses of increasing tax burden that, both at the time and now, the right promotes, expressing a lack of concern with families and companies. And in fact, the CFP affects micro, small and medium-sized enterprises that promote self-employment and create jobs, those that have been extremely affected by this instrument. Well, I know that Mr Campos Ferreira says that these companies do not represent any strategic value for the Portuguese economy, but, in fact, they represent 96 % of Portuguese business fabric, they assure about 80 % of employment and generate about 67% of the added value that is generated in our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, the government, looking at the reality of the country, sought to create social cohesion and increase the national minimum wage. But in negotiation, in commitment, listening to companies and workers, he did more: he looked at the country's business reality and continued. It produced the current bill aimed at the progressive reduction of the CFP by 2019. And this, yes, has a political and economic social basis and aims to create value, employment and think about our country. thus, we are contributing to creating virtuous cycles in the Portuguese economy and not to be taken into account and putting the problems under the carpet. The government is now committed to an alternative that actually relieves companies, but focuses on what is important for the country: creating jobs and wealth. We therefore cannot fail to welcome this proposal and the possibility of a simplified scheme in a short time. But, after what we have heard today, we are sorry for what was announced by the PSD, but we are even more sorry for the country because there was a need for a responsible PSD in this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, as we must never give up, we must continue to challenge the right, the PSD and the CDS, to follow the PS and the Government on this proposal, thinking about the country, thinking about the companies, which, in fact, would be very grateful if they had greater fiscal justice and more economic growth. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u53	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau continues to have no registrations. If there are no entries from the CDS-PP, the BE and the Greens - the parliamentary groups that have not yet intervened - I will give the floor to the CFP and the Government to end this item on the agenda. [[Pause.]] For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u54	Mr President, we did not want the CDS to stop talking, so we signed up to give the CDS the chance to be the last to speak, as you like. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] Mr President, you have not signed up, so I think it is right to let me do the intervention now. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the SMEs are...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u55	I don't know if it's too fair. You also do not allow questions to be asked in the Committee of Inquiry into Boxes!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u56	Please continue, Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u57	Mr Nuno Magalhães, I do not mind abdicating my speech if you want to sign up. Take a good look. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, SMEs are always in the mouth and at the tip of the language, and in recent years they serve to justify almost all policies. in the previous legislation, it was on behalf of SMEs that the PSD and CDS government came down the IRC and created a set of tax benefits that brought here last week, in another heated debate of this kind of tax measures. Already in this Parliament, it was on behalf of SMEs that the PSD dared not support the increase in the national minimum wage from €530 to €557. Mr. Campos Ferreira thinks it is not sustainable to increase the minimum wage from €530 to €557. I would like to ask you if you feel sustainable living with €530 per month, if you think you can sustain your life, pay your bills with €530 per month, if you think someone can have a decent life with €530 per month having an income to pay, having children at school, having transportation to pay. It is because minimum wage is not just an abstract conversation about a supposed productivity and alleged labour costs; national minimum wage is the dignity of work, it is the appreciation of the work we need in Portugal, a country where wages are already so low. We must never forget that this is what we are talking about when we are dealing with national minimum wages. in practice, what the PSD did, like the CDS, was to lower the taxes of large companies—because only large companies are paying IRC, it was to create a tax benefit scheme for large companies—because only they are benefiting from the tax benefit scheme, it was to increase the VAT of restoration, which penalized many small and medium-sized enterprises in the restoration sector,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u58	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u59	... and it was here, in the Assembly of the Republic, to present a measure that increased the CFP, which is the tax paid by small and medium-sized enterprises. With regard to small and medium-sized enterprises, which have justified all measures to protect the large ones, Mr President. Members did nothing when they were in the government and when they had the opportunity to protect them. Mrs. Members, the will and commitment to reduce the CFP is prior to the discussion of the national minimum wage and goes beyond that discussion. Mr Campos Ferreira may have come here to try to amend the impossible position of the PSD, but what will remain for history is that, when the PSD had the opportunity, he dropped taxes to large companies and wanted to aggravate the taxes of small and medium-sized enterprises; when the PSD had the opportunity, it was against the increase of the national minimum wage...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u60	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u61	... and once again, when the PSD has the opportunity, it is against the drop in taxes on small and medium-sized enterprises. And that, honourable Member, history cannot erase. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u62	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Today we are already in Act 7. o or 8. an unusual process in the history of our democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u64	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u65	The history of a social agreement that has weakened, but which resists the cost of the lie and the lack of commitment that this government has revealed. We are not here discussing a government measure resulting from the maturation of a measure that it considers positive, taking into account the consistency of the tax system. No, Mr. Secretary of State. Whoever heard it might think that we forgot the process and the history of this measure. What we are doing here is simply trying to correct what was the conduct of a Prime Minister who had no problem signing a social agreement when he already knew that he had no political conditions to comply with it. That's what we're doing here, and that's what we can't silence. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It is very clear in this process that, if the Government does not always have a majority to support its work, there is one thing — we already realize — that this majority supports with total cohesion: the lie. When necessary, the majority join together and do not hesitate to cover processes of low transparency.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u66	Exactly.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u67	And it remains extraordinary, for those who are not attentive, that the government has chosen to pretend that this matter was not discussed here a week ago at the initiative of the CDS-PP, which brought here a proposal that could be appreciated, by drag, with the initiative we are discussing today. But again, the government, instead of promoting dialogue, rather than promoting, outside its doors, attempts at consultation and greater openness, opted for closed sectarianism, which only listens to those who are available for everything, even for lies and to cover up the lack of transparency. [[CDS-PP applause.]] This is what we are discussing here today, with a CFP project which — it is frightening — challenges constitutionality, challenges the minimal correction of what is legislative practice, a CFP project which provides for the government to present a bill on this matter. The Assembly wants to force the legislative initiative of the Government. One thing I've never seen! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what is at stake here is just the following: a left-wing majority closed on itself, unable to engage in dialogue, covering everything that was essential to comply with, which was the dignity of the State and that this process, unfortunately, failed to promote. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u68	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Paulo Sá.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing the end of the special payment on account, an unfair and penalizing tax regime for micro and small businesses. in the State Budget for 2017, the CFP proposal was approved to eliminate the CFP, today we give concrete expression to this proposal. It is certainly a moment of great importance for hundreds of thousands of micro and small companies that pay for PEC. And what did the PSD and CDS do in this debate? They've been talking! They didn't want to talk about the CFP because they know what they did in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u70	You guys did that a week ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u71	The few words that the PSD dedicated to the CFP in its intervention were to say an inverted. Mr Campos Ferreira said that the PSD has always been available to reduce the CFP. It's false, sir. I will stir up your memory: since the PEC was created in 1998 PSD and CDS were twice in the government. What did you do these two times? In 2003 a PSD/CDS government brutally increased the minimum PEC value from €500 to €1250. That was your initiative with regard to the CFP in 2003. Ten years back, during the IRC reform, new PSD government / CDS. What do they do about the CFP? They try to increase the PEC from 1000 € to 1750 €, an attempt that was defeated by the struggle of micro and small entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u72	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u73	This is the history of PSD/CDS about PEC that want to make you forget. The PEC will end today, not by the hand of the PSD / CDS, but with the decisive contribution of the PCP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u74	To close the debate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Almost 15 months after the takeover of this government, we still do not understand what role the PSD wants to play as a major party to the opposition. Even now, because of the intervention here, we have learned that the PSD is in favour of the increase in the national minimum wage, but not now. The PSD is in favour of increasing the national minimum wage, but it is not sustainable, even if the entrepreneurs have said yes and have accepted the same increase in the minimum wage. In the past, the PSD proposed the reduction of the single social rate for companies while increasing it for workers and voted against as a compensatory measure for the increase of the national minimum wage. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PSD even thinks that reducing the CFP may be a positive measure, but they will vote against the reduction of the CFP. The PSD is happy when the PCP and the Left Block diverge from the Government and is sad when the Left Block and the PCP agree with the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u76	It's not about the government, it's just about the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u77	You don't get it. He is content with differences in the majority, but as any of us well understand, he does not want early elections.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u78	Elections Why? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u79	You don't realize very well, at the end of 15 months, what the PSD is doing in opposition, what the PSD wants for the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u80	Mr. Secretary of State, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u81	The Government is proud to increase the national minimum wage and is proud to lower taxes for small and medium-sized enterprises. The PSD has to be with itself. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u82	PSD must be very important. Talk about the PSD of the beginning at the end!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u83	Mrs. Members, having concluded the joint discussion, in general, of Bill No 56 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) and draft law No 402 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), we will move on to the third item of the agenda, which is from the assessment of draft resolution No 618 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of mechanisms to simplify the procedure for reimbursement of social mobility allowance ( PS ), together with in general draft law No 407 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Simplifies and prevents possible fraud in the allocation of social mobility allowance to residents in the autonomous regions ( BE ). To present the PS draft resolution, Mrs Lara Martinho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For those living on an island, accessibility, in particular air transport, is of redoubled importance, with a permanent and active contribution to the social, economic and territorial cohesion of the region. If it is true that the air transport model assumes different variables in the Azores and Madeira, the reality is that the positive impacts that the air liberalisation established in 2015 has brought to both Autonomous Regions, particularly those of the Azores. The Azores are the region of the country with the highest growth in tourism. More than 1, 5 million sleeps, an increase of 21 % compared to 2015, more than 70 million euros of total income, an increase of 30 %. The year 2016 was effectively translated into a record growth of tourism on all islands of the Azores. But it was not only tourism that benefited from this new model of air transport, the benefits also resulted in multiple advantages for residents and students in the autonomous regions. Otherwise, we can see: the release of airlines from the obligation to provide a public service with a fixed airway value. In other words, the liberalisation of airspace in the Azores in the islands of São Miguel and Terceira allowed: we reduce the value of the travel price of residents by more than 50 %, from €268 to €134; we guarantee the possibility of the resident travelling to the continent from any island for the same value, regardless of the route he does; we reduce the average price of air travel for all passengers; we increase the number of air connections between the Azores and the continent; and we attract more two airlines to operate in the region, particularly low-cost companies. Mrs. Members, we believe, however, that there is room to improve this model, in particular in simplifying the system of reimbursement of air tickets, ensuring a reimbursement to the resident, almost automatically either in the Azores or in Madeira. The constraints identified, such as the long queues of waiting in the TTCs, the obligation to submit several documents that repeat each request and the payment of reimbursement in cash only are some examples of areas that we need to improve in the Azores and Madeira. That is why we are presenting this draft resolution, which is no longer a Simplex for the reimbursement of the airways of residents and students in the autonomous regions and which allows us to eliminate existing constraints and morosities. We thus ensure that the procedure is carried out electronically, the creation of a database containing the registration of all the elements necessary for reimbursement, safeguarding the protection of personal data and the possibility of other forms of payment, such as bank transfers. We want to safeguard that residents are reimbursed in the shortest amount of time, but without ever questioning all the value that liberalisation has brought to the economic and social cohesion of our regions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u85	To present Bill No 407 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) Mr Paulino Ascenção has the floor of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u86	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The aim of the Left Block initiative is to simplify life for people who live on the Azores and Madeira islands and who need to travel outside these regions, i.e. to simplify access to mobility allowance. The fact that people have to forward the price required by the companies and only after they make the trip can claim the allowance prevents many people from travelling, given the exorbitant price, often unbearable, for many families, especially in times of greatest demand, such as the holidays of Christmas, Easter and summer. Especially for students, who already spend most of the year away from their families, being prevented from spending Christmas or Easter at home because they do not have the economic capacity to advance the value of tickets is cruel. This is unacceptable and needs to be resolved. The solution that the Block brings here may not be perfect, but let's work quickly to find a better solution. This situation cannot continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u88	The case becomes absurd when the use of the credit card, which is an instrument that allows the financial difficulties to be overcome, is punished with an additional 60-day period to obtain the refund of the tickets, and this happens in the case of Madeira. And it is good to remember that the plane is the only means of transport for those who live on the islands to be able to leave their territory. We are the only islands in Europe where there is this dependence on air transport. The amendments we propose here are limited, so essentially the model remains. We only propose to change the time of payment of the subsidy and the replacement of the mediating entity — the CTT company, which is a private entity, and to its place we suggest the Tax Administration — since we believe that the subsidy aims to support residents and not subsidize the profits of a private undertaking. The formula for calculating the subsidy is maintained and this is the point that can, or not, encourage companies to practice high prices to take advantage of the subsidy model. If the processing of the allowance by the companies and their agents is not feasible, then another alternative needs to be considered. We admit that there are two models: one, for those who are comfortable to advance the value of the trip and another, for those who cannot make that advance, and these people have to have an alternative to buy the tickets and make the trips they lack without having to forward exorbitant values. The liberalisation that began in the case of Madeira in 2008 did not fulfill its promises, particularly in high times, when coming from Madeira to Lisbon may cost more than going from Lisbon to New York. The promised competition, after nine years, did not appear, did not result, but apparently the regional governments and the Government of the Republic maintain their unwavering faith in the market. in the case of the Azores, there is an apparent success, but, for full evaluation, this lacks the support given to the low cost companies by travested doors in the light of the day. Low-cost companies respond to seasonality, which is a feature of these areas, with rising prices and not with a higher flight offer. This response of greater availability of flights when people need it can only be guaranteed by a public service model, because, yes, it offers price stability and adjustment of supply to people's needs. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u89	Mr Paulo Neves has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mobility allowance is a matter for which the Social Democratic Party — the whole PSD — is not only that of the Azores and Madeira — attaches great importance. We are talking about a constitutional principle, which is that of territorial continuity, and it is precisely the Government of the Republic — and it is good to remember — that it is responsible for ensuring that constitutional principle. The PSD has, over the past few months, insisted that current legislation needs to be updated. Through offices sent by the Regional Government of Madeira to the Central Government, through several and insistent interventions made here in the Assembly of the Republic, the PSD has requested and suggested improvement processes. We've been doing this for a long time. That is why we applaud the Left Block and the Socialist Party for now accompanying us in this battle with the Government of the Republic. Unfortunately, the central government has failed to fulfil its obligations, because it has not made available, as the law requires, detailed data on mobility allowance, as it has not corresponded to our suggestions for improvement throughout the process. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD presents today in the Assembly of the Republic, a proposal for amendments to the decrees governing the social mobility allowance between the autonomous regions and the continent. We advocate measures that simplify the allocation and reimbursement of social mobility allowance. The PSD wants the allocation of the social mobility allowance to be allocated in the course of the purchase of its travel, competing the State directly repay its airlines and its agents. We want to simplify the whole reimbursement system and prevent residents in the autonomous regions from having to delay the total value of the ticket. The PSD also defends the end of 60 days for reimbursement for those who pay with credit card their trips. With our proposal, residents pay in the purchase act only the value of the resident and student ticket and not the total price required by the airline. A new wording for Article 8 is also suggested in our proposal. or in order to combat irregular situations. Mr President, to conclude, the current legislation that was implemented in 2015 by the PSD/PP government has brought great and proven advantages for the development of autonomous regions and for greater, more facilitated and cheaper mobility for residents of autonomous regions. But we also propose improvement processes in the current system. at the end of this time, it is found that the procedure can be less bureaucratic and more agile and can also be socially more responsible. The PSD, which has its project and will have to be taken into account, of course, will however be attentive to all other initiatives, including those coming from the Government. One thing is certain: we will never accept anything that does not improve the lives of the peoples of the Azores and Madeira, as regards mobility and the principle of territorial continuity, which is a constitutional principle, that we do not dispense. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u91	For an intervention, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u92	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On this issue, which will generate, as you will see, a broad consensus, the Socialist Party, which has made a positive note on the liberalisation of the airspace of Madeira and the Azores. The liberalisation of airspace brought obvious gains—I will not repeat the numbers, which have already been given by Mrs Lara Martinho — for tourism and for the economy of the Azores and Madeira. I am sorry that Mr Paulino Ascenção did not have the opportunity at the end of the day to have been at a meeting of the Working Group on Tourism with Mr President of Tourism of Portugal, where he, closed the data of 2016, gave notice of the positive impact that the liberalisation of airspace had had on tourism of the Azores with obvious success. With this, they obviously win the economies, workers and companies of the Azores and now Madeira. Looks like Mr. Left Block is against that. Sometimes, as the people say: the worst blind is the one who doesn't want to see! [[PCP protests.]] But that can't be called into question...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u93	The problem is!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u94	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, see the tourism data of Portugal, which are already available on the committee website of which you are part. It is sufficient to read very briefly to see the advantages that it has brought to the Azores and to Madeira the liberalisation of airspace and what are winning companies, workers and the economy of the Azores and Madeira. But this cannot, of course, call into question the right to social mobility allowance of those who are resident or those who are studying within or outside the Azores. The initiatives will go down to the committee without a vote and therefore I am almost unable to be here to take account of the various initiatives, because that means that we will have room for the best solutions carefully and carefully, but of course we must simplify. The CDS, both in the Azores and in Madeira, both here and in Parliament, encouraged the creation of the working group, which at present tried to simplify this subject and there are a number of proposals from all banks to simplify it. It is a fact that the requirement was enormous, since it was requested proof of invoice for the purchase of the ticket, taxpayer's card to prove the tax home, proof document for the identity of the beneficiary, document issued by the Portuguese authorities stating that the holder has habitual residence on the island, certificate of registration or certificate of permanent residence, residence card or permanent residence card and valid residence permit. It's a bureaucracy that makes no sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u95	Who created this bureaucracy? Who would it be? It was a spontaneous generation!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u96	There are several models. One is the creation of a specific rate for residents and students, as in the past, and the State is responsible for such compensation. In fact, today, technology allows the inclusion, in the act of the reservation, either in an agent, or in the company itself, of the tax identification number and the number of resident cards so that it can be proved — and here it is necessary to guarantee - that those who use this benefit are those who truly need and use this service and that it is not a fraud involved. Therefore, ensuring transparency and rigour in this process seems to me to be a greater criterion of justice. We are available to study a tariff with the inclusion, in the act of the reservation, of a set of data that enables, at a later date, to measure the effective use of this right or, possibly, to ease, with the CTT, which is the entity that is currently dealing with this — and the Socialist Party proposes the creation of an electronic platform, which allows the inclusion of the NIB(bank identification number) —, the transfer to the user account, avoiding permanent expectations. There are several solutions, but what brings us all together is the fact that we want to simplify and guarantee the right to mobility for residents and students of the islands, without questioning what was an enormous and excellent work done on behalf of the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira by the previous government, which was the liberalisation of airspace, and which allowed obvious gains. And I hope this is recognized. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u97	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u98	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Paulino Ascenzione said a short time ago that the liberalisation of air travel to the autonomous regions did not fulfill the promises he had made. Mr President, it would be the first liberalisation to fulfill your promises.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u99	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u100	In fact, liberalisation has been so good that it is necessary for everyone to present initiatives to see whether they can reduce the damage caused to the residents by the cheat that has been created. However, liberalisation has benefited airlines and tourists who mark their trips six months in advance in low season, but for residents it has had dramatic consequences in many cases. This is because a resident who has an urgent need to travel to the continent pays an exorbitance and to pay for his pocket. Therefore, it did not benefit residents or the Portuguese State, who are in the hands of exorbitant quantities required by airlines for travel that are not marked in advance of not knowing how many months. So much so that the ladies. Members come here to recognize that measures must be taken to reduce the constraints that are being created to residents, even with a bureaucratic tack, in some illegal cases, which has been required for them to obtain partial reimbursement of their travels. Mrs. Members, these initiatives refer to absolutely disproportionate requirements, but even there are illegal requirements, such as those reported to us in complaints that we have received from citizens resident in the Azores to whom copies of the citizenship card are required in order to receive their reimbursements, which is clearly illegal. In fact, the Minister of the Presidency and Administrative Modernization does not tire of repeating that this requirement is illegal, but the fact is that it is made to residents in order to receive their reimbursements. Therefore, these proposals which are made here are obviously going to reduce the negative consequences created by the liberalisation of airways for residents. Obviously, we hope that something will be approved here that can reduce these constraints and those difficulties that are created for residents, but it is necessary, in fact, to say that, first of all, these constraints were not born out of nothing, someone is responsible for this. Who caused a trick so that the citizens could be reimbursed, someone went. Someone is responsible and whoever has government responsibilities, whether nationally or at the regional level, cannot now come here pretending that he does not know someone is responsible for this.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u101	It's 30% more tourists!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u102	Therefore, measures must be taken to ensure that people can in fact be reimbursed for what is due them, but it must also be said that these inconveniences, these damage caused to the populations, are a direct consequence of the liberalisation of airways, which was celebrated here by PS, PSD and the CDS. The CFP has always expressed its greatest reservations to the liberalisation of air traffic, taking into account the damage which, and this was evident, would be caused to the populations. Someone will win this, but the damage to the populations is something we cannot ignore and which, of course, should have been properly guarded and not been. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u103	Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u104	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the short time that I have at my disposal I would like to say, in a small quick note, that of course this is a very important issue for the autonomous regions. I would basically like to say that the models that are in force today are based on the same conceptual basis, but there is a substantial difference in what is happening in the two Autonomous Regions. Thus, while the Autonomous Region of the Azores and its Regional Government have introduced significant changes in the initial conceptual base model, favouring residents and Azorians, the Regional Government of Madeira has introduced mechanisms which, rather than favouring all residents, are favouring companies. And the proof that this is happening is, for example, the maximum limit that has been established for the subsidy in the Autonomous Region of Madeira, which does not happen in the Autonomous Region of the Azores, and this is obviously a very large limitation that makes at peak heights, at high rates of demand for tickets to Madeira, residents are affected because they have to pay much more than they would be in the Autonomous Region of the Azores. I therefore conclude by saying that it is important to look at the model of the Autonomous Region of Madeira and, perhaps, also, the model of the Autonomous Region of the Azores, with regard to the bureaucratic issue, in order to do something that seems very important to me, that is to guarantee a better model than that which is and to ensure that there are no substantial differences such as those existing today between the Autonomous Region of Madeira and the Autonomous Region of the Azores, in which the residents of the Autonomous Region of the Azores are clearly more benefited than the residents of the Autonomous Region of Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u105	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u106	I'm done now, Madam President. And this is not the work of the Government of the Republic, it is the work of the regional governments. Unfortunately, however, the Regional Government of Madeira, which is the PSD, the Regional Government which Mr. Deputy defends, did not do what he had to do, which was to defend the interests of the Madeirans, the interests of the residents of Madeira. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u107	We have made proposals, your government does not accept them! Talk to your government!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u108	Mrs. Members, the debate on draft resolution No 618 / XIII ( 2 ) is thus concluded. ( a ) and draft law No 407 / XIII ( 2. ( a). We will continue with the discussion, in general, of Bill No. 316 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the Extraordinary Investment II Tax Credit ( CFEI II ) ( CDS-PP ). For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u109	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The investment, after a recovery and having grown more than 2 % in 2014, and almost 5 % in 2015, had a decline in the first three quarters of 2016, namely the forecast is that in 2016, unfortunately, the investment decreases 2 %. It is true that the abrupt fall of public investment did not help, something that was so defended by the left parties a few years ago here, in Parliament,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u110	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u111	... but curiously, after they had reached power and registered a 12 % increase in public investment, the reality is that a gross fall of almost 10 % of public investment has been carried out. But it is also true that, in view of this reality of falling investment, we can have one of two attitudes: either we are conforming and we say 'it does not hurt, Portugal is already growing to reach' or we do not agree and we think that Portugal can and should grow more. in the CDS, we think that Portugal can and should grow more. And that is why we are presenting this bill which is an extraordinary tax credit to investment and which aims to increase the investment of private companies. This solution is not an innovation, it is a solution that has evidence given.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u112	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u113	It has already been applied and it has already worked, and, as it is usually said, «if it is not broken, it is not worth fixing ». Therefore, in economic terms, it is not worth being with experimentalisms, creating new solutions and thinking about new options. If this solution has already been tested and works, then why don't we put it to work and not apply it again?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u115	This mechanism achieved in 2013 that 18,534 companies invested around EUR 2500 million. We have all the availability to adapt its articulate, which was obviously planned to enter into force in early 2017. Through this mechanism, which is simple, it dedicates a deduction to collection, i.e. a deduction that is paid at the head of IRC, so that companies can use this money, investing it and applying it on them. It is a simple, fast, effective mechanism that has already proved. Those who are not happy and think that Portugal can grow more have only one thing to do: it is voting in favour. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u116	For an intervention, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u117	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The low level of investment, in particular productive investment, is a serious obstacle to economic growth and job creation. Portugal's accession to the euro marked the beginning of a period of sharp decline in public and private investment. Of 28 % of GDP in 2000, the total investment fell to almost half in 2016, with the sharpest breakdown occurring during the four and a half years of the previous PSD / CDS government. In 2014 and 2015, the level of investment was even lower than the depreciation of capital, meaning that productive capacity was destroyed in that period. The successive cuts in public investment have always been dictated by the obsessive option of reducing the budget deficit, an option with which the current PS government has not cut and which results in the maintenance of clearly insufficient investment levels. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The draft law that the CDS brings to the debate today, as well as trying to eliminate the heavy responsibilities that this party has for the low levels of investment that are registered in our country, insists on the the thesis that the breakdown of investment is essentially due to factors of a fiscal nature and takes advantage of this false thesis to, in the path of measures approved in the 2013 IRC reform, defend more a tax stamp to large companies and economic groups. It is the INE itself ( Instituto Nacional de Statística ) that rejects the thesis of the CDS when, in its investment scenario survey of 26 January, it says taxively: « The main limiting factor of business investment identified by the companies in the two years analyzed was the deterioration of sales expectations ». Thus, in view of this reality, the improvement of the conditions for investment is necessarily due to the increase in the purchasing capacity of Portuguese workers and people through a general increase in wages. This is the determining factor for the attractiveness of the investment identified by the companies themselves. This is where we need to act. The PSD and the CDS, by deliberately ignoring this reality by ideological choice, have made exactly the opposite way of reducing the income of workers, pensioners and families, with harmful consequences for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. It is not with initiatives such as today that the CDS can clean up its past — the crushing of small businesses — or hide its choice for a policy of favoring the great patronage. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As an indispensable element of an adequate response to the serious national economic problems, the CFP has been insisting on the need to adopt measures to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, measures such as those presented recently: reducing tax burden and simplifying tax obligations; facilitating access to investment; reducing production costs associated with electricity and fuel, telecommunications and transport. These measures are what micro, small and medium-sized enterprises need, and these are the measures proposed by the CFP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u118	Mr Fernando Anastácio has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u119	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill presented by the CDS, which aims to create an extraordinary tax credit for investment, is a proposal that today has no cabling, and questions about whether it has ever had it. This proposal was intended to produce effects in 2017. However, the reality and the course of time took care to resolve the issue it raised. Today, this debate takes place with the 2017 State Budget already in operation, where a much more effective set of measures are planned than those contained in this bill. The Government has already approved and implemented the Capitalisation programme, which allows companies to capitalise, improve the conditions for their financing and promote investment. The National Reform Programme also provides for an incentive framework for investment. The current budget law has provided for a set of measures to encourage investment and growth, among which I stress the Seed programme and a transitional provision under the Fiscal Investment Code, these measures that pursue capitalisation objectives and investment stimulus and which have the virtuality of being much more effective and do not create the legal void, which we would necessarily have with the approval of this bill. The authors of this project seem to forget that they approved in the PSD/CDS Government the RFAI (Tax Investment Support Scheme) and that this project has as its only difference, compared to the one that eventually approved, the increase of the eligible limit, which increased from 5 million to 10 million euros. However, it happens that this measure is fully consumed by the measure already included in the State budget and which is based on the rules in force and known by the companies, rather than creating two parallel regimes which would necessarily create confusion. On the other hand, the State Budget measure is not limited to 2017, and therefore benefits from structural investments representing a multiannual expenditure, since it still covers expenditure already made in the last quarter of 2016, avoiding the perverse consequence of the CDS proposal, which would be that of the planned investment postponement for the last months of this economic year. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the investment is growing. The limiting factor to business investment identified by companies in 2015 and 2016 was the deterioration of sales prospects, following the uncertainty of profitability. The perspective is that business investment in nominal terms shows a variation of 6 % in 2016 compared with the 3, 1 % we had in 2015. The dynamism of investment is due to the dynamism of the Community funds, a factor that was completely neglected by the previous government. The economy is creating jobs, employment based on the trinomium: exports, investment and private consumption. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the economy and its dynamics that tells us that this proposal does not make any contribution to the intended growth of the economy and private investment, which is why it cannot necessarily deserve our approval. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u120	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Inês Domingos.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u121	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have already recalled here that with this government, the investment collapsed in 2016 and that the most recent data of the 3. the quarter points to a fall of 1, 5 %, but may even be higher. The Government and the PS typically present this collapse with a number of justifications that make no sense and that have nothing to do with governance. It's just that these are mere subterfuges, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, to hide the government's weak performance. Public investment is the direct responsibility of the government and has fallen almost 10 % in 2016. It is less than 1200 million than you said you were going to invest in 2016.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u122	It's an error of perception!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u123	It is just not just this, private investment is also stagnant, and it is stagnant because the government does not know, nor is it interested, in creating a climate of confidence for entrepreneurs to invest, because it retreats into IRC reform, increases taxes for innovative and successful activities, as was the case for local housing, and attacks the competitiveness of companies permanently. Mr. President and Mrs. Members, investment is a key factor in sustainable economic development, because it generates jobs, increases regional development, increases the productivity of workers and has in itself the ability, if carefully chosen, to increase the growth of the economy, not only today but also tomorrow. That is why the irresponsible attitude of the government is twofoldly regrettable, because it limits growth not only now but also for the future, for our children. And with this attitude it also affects employability, especially the younger ones. The CDS initiative is an important step in strengthening investment incentives and has already produced results in the past, so it can also help now — what you deny — and can help private investment, which has been so disincentived. Mrs Cecilia Meireles, tax measures are effectively one of the means to support companies. Unfortunately, one of the main drivers of investment is the confidence that entrepreneurs have in government and governance, and that, with this government, does not exist. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u124	On behalf of the Left Block, Mr Paulino Ascension has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u125	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Without having a principle opposition to the question of tax benefits in favour of investment, it is good to say that tax benefits are not the only factor in promoting this investment. There are others, from logistical questions to demand. And the demand is asking us soon for the issues that have to do with the policies that have been followed in recent years — austerity, income attacks — which, of course, have engaged in demand and lower investment intentions. It also happens that, at the level of taxation, we already have a major distortion between taxation of families, incomes of work and businesses, with families being severely penalized in favour of taxation of capital income. We also have a situation which is referred to by the Court of Auditors on the 2015 General Account, which is the reality of a concentration of tax benefits in a very limited group of entities, especially of the tax benefits granted within IRC. Anyway, I would like to welcome here the concern expressed by the PSD for the importance of public investment. For us, there are two orders of main criteria here to assess the goodness of tax benefits. The first is to assess whether it really favours investment and job creation — I am talking about employment with rights rather than trainees and other precarious jobs.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u126	What does that have to do with the initiative? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u127	The second order of factors to assess the goodness of this scheme is to ensure that the future results of withholding tax benefits do not flow out of the national economy through the distribution of profits; that is, to ensure that these investments have perenniality, which remain to maximize the multiplier effect of the investment. In view of these two criteria, what is desirable is that this incentive scheme is oriented towards small and medium-sized enterprises, as is the case for Europe, because, especially national capital companies, will not distribute results abroad and are responsible for most of the jobs in the country. Therefore, they ensure that future benefits will be reinvested in the national economy, since companies, being rooted in the territory, will reinvested in the local economy, contributing to regional development and to the reduction of regional asymmetries. And this regime must also be generic and not limited in time, as is proposed. Given the same criteria, other entities that must also be favoured are non-profit entities, such as cooperatives, regardless of their size, because they do not distribute results, obviously, and also because they are rooted in the territory and show great permanence. As is proposed, there are two major risks here, which are once again the advantages of being appropriated by a limited number of entities and the benefits will flow out of the Portuguese economy through distribution of results abroad. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u128	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u129	Mr. President and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, when we look at an initiative like this, we can start from two different assumptions: or we think that Portugal has no chronic economic growth problem and we are counting on the current situation – and when I say "current", I am easily referring - to the situation of the last two decades -, thinking that there is no problem to solve; or we are beginning to realize that yes, that there is a chronic economic growth problem, and, as investment is the most reproduced variable in the future, we are starting to work, not for today, but also for tomorrow. With regard to the criticisms that have been made, first of all, they accuse this initiative of eradicating the past. Mrs. Members, if I say that this initiative has already been implemented, which was implemented in 2013, that it has evidence given and that until its title is « Extraordinary Tax Credit II », then it deletes the past? Oh, my God! It is based precisely on the assumption that it has already been applied in the past. It has also been said here that there are more effective measures. Is there? Oh, my God! It is for this I have the results to say that 18,534 companies have used a total investment of more than EUR 2500 million. I would also like you to tell me the results of the effectiveness of these measures, because it is not enough to say that they are more effective, it is appropriate to present results, and I believe that they have no results to present. If what they say is true, if the problem of investment is indeed, as I have heard here, a problem of sales prospects, because, when the policy is changed and there is wage replacement, then there will be investment, Mr President. Members, why has growth grown in 2014 and 2015 and declined, contracted, was lower, in 2016. If what you say was true, the investment would have risen.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u130	It's the companies themselves who say it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u131	The companies themselves, when they are doing so, are doing the opposite of what you said.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u132	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u133	In conclusion, Mr Paulo Sá reminded Mr Sá of the tax ruling which he approved here and which is called « asset revaluation ».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u134	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u135	They were tax bills to the big capital!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u136	Do you really think that it is SMEs who will use asset revaluation? Oh, my God! Mr President, there are 18,000 companies that have used this scheme.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u137	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u138	Of course, Madam President. Do you think there are 18,000 large companies in Portugal? Large companies approve their tax brokerage, which is the revaluation of assets. [[All right!]] [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u139	Mrs. Members, the general discussion of Bill No. 316 / XIII ( 2 ) is thus concluded. ( a ) ( CDS-PP ). We move on to the last item on our agenda, which consists of the assessment of draft resolution No 665 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — In order to prevent the use of nuclear energy ( The Greens ). For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u140	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Nuclear is a danger and, several times, the Greens have brought this issue to the Assembly of the Republic. Many throughout history have been the accidents in nuclear power stations — and we still heard yesterday about a serious problem in the cooling system in a nuclear power plant in Slovenia — and, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not possible to play with such serious things. Portugal has denied nuclear energy. I didn't want nuclear power stations on your territory, but, ladies and gentlemen. Members, several times, we have remembered the danger that we face, close to the nuclear threat arising from the proximity that we have to the nuclear power plant in Almaraz. The Spanish Government's intention to extend the operation of a completely obsolete nuclear power plant is known. And we believe that this has led many Portuguese to wake up again for the threat and risk of nuclear. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Portugal, on the other hand, has a huge potential to bet on efficiency and reduced electricity consumption. We have a huge potential to bet on the increase and efficiency of renewable energy and we have enough electricity production in our country to meet our needs. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we believe that Portugal, given its option to reject nuclear power, has an obligation to be more consistent and to reject nuclear energy more completely. The Greens therefore present a proposal to the Assembly of the Republic today so that we can have the courage to move in the energy market, because, by importing us from Spain's nuclear energy, we would be able to change market rules in order to prevent such imports. Clearly, we all know that when electricity, regardless of primary source, cannot be broken down, because there is only one network, it cannot be differentiated from the source. But in the market, marketable volumes can be broken down depending on the source of electricity and we can make the choice not to buy, not to finance, nuclear energy. We would be much more consistent if we had made this option. Austria has made options for amending market rules to minimize the use of nuclear energy which it no longer consumes. This is the challenge that The Greens today bring to the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u141	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u142	For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mr Hugo Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u143	Mr. President and Mr. And Mrs. Members, I begin by greeting the Green Party for once again bringing the theme of nuclear energy to plenary and taking advantage of it to start the debate with a quote from the award-winning book Voices of Chernobyl: « He began to change: every day, he faced a different person... Burns began to come to the surface. (...) The color of your body... Blue... Red... Cinzento-castanhado. », being one of the many anonymous voices of Chernobyl present in the book that reflects the words, in this case is a widow of one of the firefighters of the nuclear disaster. It is well known that nuclear carries risks and dangers throughout history, as Chernobyl demonstrates and, recently in Japan, Fukushima. Portugal, in particular the Tejo River, is not free of this danger, paying attention to the proximity of the Almaraz nuclear power plant, which is located a hundred kilometres from the border between Spain and Portugal and which has been in operation since 1981, i.e. 36 years ago. Given the typology and characteristics of the structure, its useful life should have ended in 2010 and now, as it is known, it is the will of its owners and the Spanish Government to prolong its useful life through a nuclear waste store. Portugal does not agree with this by refusing it, in accordance with the votes expressed in this plenary of the Assembly of the Republic. However, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in relation to this project under consideration, the option of the current Government and Portugal, throughout history, has always been against nuclear, particularly through the bet on renewable energy. Indeed, this is the strategic option of our country, and it is in this framework and in this reality of the interconnections that the Government has bet on, in particular with Morocco, as well as in strengthening interconnections with Europe, with the aim of creating a genuine European energy market that does not exist. Our electricity production does not have nuclear power, as it is well known, however, Portugal buys and sells energy in the Iberian electricity market, the so-called MIBEL, which, depending on the conditions, may imply, at every moment, the use of nuclear energy consumption. However, due to the wagering on renewables, this resource is very low, and in 2016 it was only 1, 69 % of the total energy consumed. It is in the European and international framework that these options should be taken, within the framework of European energy policy, where the issue of nuclear is discussed. Portugal is not, nor can it be, an island from an energy point of view, and this requires that the links between Portugal and Spain are increasingly strengthened, as well as with Europe. In view of the relevance of the debate on nuclear power, the fact is that, with current interlinkages, it is not possible to prevent its importation, since it is not possible to physically prevent the entry of energy on the basis of the source. However, we will continue the intransigent defense of renewable energy, sustainability and energy efficiency. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u144	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that good coexistence between parliamentarians is a very healthy thing in a democracy like ours, but that should not stop the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, if you would like to speak, please be heard. And, in fact, if you look around you, the Members and the Members. Members will see that there is a lot of noise and many conversations that may take place outside the Chamber. Thank you very much. Mr António Costa Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u145	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the proposal presented in the draft resolution by The Greens, the PSD wishes to state that over several years the PSD and its Members have submitted many proposals on this subject and have expressed themselves precisely against the production of nuclear energy in Portugal. In fact, many have been the protagonists with recognized national and international merit.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u146	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u147	This manifestation of PSD, over the years, existed even before there were some parties defending this cause.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u148	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u149	Therefore, the PSD has always been on the front line of non-nuclear energy production in Portugal and has always had a very clear position in this regard. With regard to the more recent situation of Almaraz — although not the same — it is umbilically linked — the PSD had concrete initiatives on the subject and did not hesitate to protest against the expansion of nuclear production in Almaraz for more than 30 years and the construction of that warehouse. In addition, the PSD presented proposals and they were approved unanimously in this House of the Republic. This, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, to say that the PSD has not had any limitations on its position on this matter. And those are the right decisions! But the issue that is put to us by the Greens leaves us with some doubts here. If we take the proposed decision, it will be a unilateral decision, before international agreements which the Portuguese State has established, which means directly interfering with the Iberian energy market, means going against the European rules we commit ourselves to. You know that, Mrs. Heloísa Apollonia? Oh, my God! If we adopted this Greens initiative, we would be interfering in decisions of a sovereign state, as is the case with Spain. On the other hand, if we adopted this position, it would also be ineffective. Let us see: in a market where interconnections (imports and energy exports) exist with total fluidity and transparency, it would be impossible to determine the origin, the source of energy. Therefore, we are faced with a situation of difficult evaluation and, of course, ineffective. But, going this way, we would enter the camp of the isolationism of Portugal. Is this what the Greens want? Oh, my God! More serious: this Iberian model, which has been beneficial to Portugal, would be seriously affected. Is this the goal of The Greens? Oh, my God! For those who, like Portugal, want to export electricity to Europe (because, fortunately, they have resources with strong potential), would find a very high barrier, probably inaccessible in the Pyrenees. We are asking the Greens Ecological Party to conclude that these issues were well evaluated. Will The Greens be available to question the Iberian model of energy production and marketing? Will The Greens be available to break international agreements with which Portugal has committed itself? Will The Greens be available to go against the European Union? To be honest, it seems to us to be a completely ineffective proposal. With this idea, we would be transforming Portugal into a real « stone jangada». [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u150	For an intervention, Mr André Silva now gives the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u151	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In order to meet the challenges of Portugal's energy policy, the NAP believes that the state must be more active, dynamic, but above all courageous. It is imperative to rethink our model of energy production and consumption. last year, it was demonstrated how we could be more independent of fossil or nuclear energy. During four consecutive days, domestic electricity consumption in the country was based only on national renewable energy sources. This framework reinforces what we have been saying, that it is possible to make the country fully supplied by renewable and really clean energy. There is political will and courage. But this path is only possible if we also implement a society project that aims at the energy independence of citizens and communities. And this vision is not consistent with the energy model currently dominated by corporations that live from bloodsucking incomes that corrode the interest of citizens and the sustainability of the environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u152	You have the floor now, too, for an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u153	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This discussion, by its very nature, requires an integrated, coherent approach, which considers energy policy as a structural element of a country's development and security and sovereignty. For the CFP, energy policy should have as fundamental objectives the efficiency in energy use by the various sectors and the reduction of energy deficit. To this end, it will be necessary to increase national energy production, with the exploitation of endogenous resources, to diversify energy sources and geographical sources of imported raw materials, to promote rational use of energy and to adapt to the process of depletion of fossil fuels, to safeguard ecological balance and to safeguard the safety of populations, to accelerate the use of new energy sources, especially renewable energies. The energy policy we propose for the country requires the definition of a strategy, based on a national energy plan, which reduces energy consumption and deficit, with programmes for rational use of energy and increases in energy efficiency in transport, buildings and industry, alongside the already described diversification of energy sources. This means, among other fundamental options, the reorganization of energy lines, combining the value chain of electricity and natural gas companies, the prospect and registration of resources in renewable and non-renewable energy sources, the strengthening of scientific research and technological development, oriented towards the development and integrated use of national potentials, the monitoring of energy innovations and global cooperation. In fact, in this regard, particularly when we talk about matters with the sensitivity and degree of risk that nuclear energy entails, it is important to bear in mind this critical issue, which is the capacity to respond to the state's research structures and scientific and technological analysis. Our country cannot afford to rely on the technical and scientific capacity of other countries in matters with this sensitivity and this degree of risk. And the result of successive government policies is in sight: enormous lack of technical and human resources in these structures; serious lack of funding; technical substitutes replaced by pockets in the performance of functions; the Technological and Nuclear Institute itself no longer exists as such, integrated which was at the Technical Higher Institute, with more centralization and bureaucracy in operation. What life is confirming every day is that, rather than serving as an instrument for the accumulation of surpluses from the economic groups and the penalization of the productive sectors and populations, the energy sector must again be placed at the service of the people and the country, which implies, from the outset, that the State assumes its role as the public supervisory authority of the main companies in the supply, production, transport and marketing of the different forms of energy. contrary to what some more distracted may think, this is at stake, as a key issue, underlying all these matters, including with regard to the substance and the way the whole Almaraz process has been going on and on which we share the concerns present in this debate. When the profits of the large economic groups speak higher than everything else, when States are placed at the service of these interests is the very security of the people and the environment, it is the very respect for the sovereignty of the countries and peoples that are relegated to the top. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u154	Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u155	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal has always had the option, and well, to be free of nuclear. However, with regard to the Almaraz central, which, although located in Spain, is only 100 km from the border with Portugal and is refrigerated, as we all know, by the waters of the Tejo, the firm purpose that Spain has shown, in order to further extend the life of the central, has been a central and worrying issue for Portugal in recent months. As we have said before, the Portuguese Government has to take a firm and forceful position with regard to the Spanish Government and even within the European Union in order to enforce, in particular, the resolutions of the Assembly of the Republic so that the closure of Almaraz is a reality. All that has happened in recent months is regrettable and the way the Spanish Government has disregarded the Portuguese Government is not at all acceptable. The most recent example, which the CDS frontally reprobates, is the cancellation of the visit of a delegation of the Order of Engineers of Portugal, by the managing entity of the central, without any valid basis. Turning to the concrete question that is being raised here today and that we are discussing — the draft resolution submitted by the Greens — the CDS agrees with many of the assumptions of this initiative. In fact, the commitment to renewable energy, more environmentally friendly, must continue and the government must make every effort to strengthen its production and use. however, the ban on the sale of electricity from nuclear sources in Portugal raises serious doubts. We therefore respect the fundamentals of MIBEL and the steps that are being taken towards progressive integration of markets into the European Union, not by reversing initiatives aimed at distorting market principles and the competition of agents. The CDS argues that the Government should make every effort to increase the production of renewable energy and to take the opportunity to position Portugal as a supplier of renewable energy for the European Union in the European climate and energy framework for 2030, free of charge for the national electricity system, so that Portugal becomes a good user of renewable energy for the exporter of these same renewable energy. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u156	To conclude this debate, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u157	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, of two, one: or the ladies and gentlemen. Members take this to a technical issue and, saying that it is not possible, they end up assuming that the Portuguese are all being deceived when, in their electricity bill, the primary energy source that arrives at their home is broken down, and they are actually being deceived about that information; or then, in fact, this information breakdown is possible, so it is possible to break down the marketable volumes and we can buy, finance the energy sources that we understand. Clearly, if you are the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am told that 'the rules of the market today do not allow this', I confirm—of course they do not allow! The Iberian electricity market today does not allow this option to be taken. What the Greens are proposing to the Assembly of the Republic is that we put the Government to work, to make efforts, so that these market rules make this possible, the marketable volumes can be broken down depending on the source of energy. [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u158	Mrs. Member, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u159	I will finish, Mr. President. In fact, we welcome the energy and electricity interconnections that you have. Members mentioned here with regard to Europe, but we want them to make the connection of clean energy, with the absolute rejection of nuclear by Portugal. We have this responsibility for the Portuguese but also for all the peoples of the world, for a world of security, free from nuclear.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u160	We have thus reached the end of the debate, and we are now entering the voting period. First of all, we will check the quorum, using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who are unable to do so for any reason will have to signal to the Bureau and then make the presence, so that their presence at the meeting is considered. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 215 presences, to which are added those of the Members. Members Joana Mortágua, from BE, Carlos Pereira and Pedro Delgado Alves, from PS, and Antonio Costa Silva, from PSD, making 219 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the voting. Mrs. Members, let us begin by voting No 226 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Despite the death of Manuela de Azevedo ( PS ). I call on Secretary Idália Salvador Serrão to proceed with the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « last February 10, died, at 105 years of age, Manuela de Azevedo. Born on 31 August 1911, in Lisbon, he goes to adolescence at Beira Alta, where he takes the course of high school, coming to teach Portuguese and French in a college. Manuela de Azevedo, still very young, ventured in the world of journalism, writing articles and poems for local newspapers. His literary gifts were recognized and in 1938 he received an invitation to integrate the newspaper Republica, in Lisbon. From 1942 to 1945, he was the editor of the World Life magazine, later passing through the essays of the Lisbon Diário, where he signed dozens of reports, many of them with a social character, of The Day and, finally, of the Diário de Noticias, where he gained a unique status. The annals of the history of journalism belong to their reports on the degraded neighbourhoods of Lisbon or working conditions in the rice fields of the Sado Valley. His literary and social sensitivity, the critical spirit that maintained until the end of his life, led her to multiply her crafts, becoming critical of art and writer, having published dozens of books of poetry, stories, novels, essays, biography, chronics, novels and plays. In 1985, he resigned from journalism because, having his career was made of pen in hand, “I knew he would have to write on a computer”, going more often to Constance, working for the House-Memory of Camões, an entity that she had founded. In 2017, 105 years old Manuela de Azevedo, the world's oldest reporter, continued to enrich his long life, working in a new book, showing well the brand of determination and commitment that characterized his whole life. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary on February 17, 2017, expresses its regret at the death of Manuela de Azevedo and addresses to his relatives, friends and admirers his heartfelt condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u162	We're going to vote on the vote you just read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the vote we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Members, the following votes are followed: No 220 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Condemning the launch of a medium-range missile and the continuation of the development of the North Korea nuclear programme ( PSD ), No 223 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Voltage conviction on the Korean peninsula ( PCP ), No 228 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemning the launch of a ballistic missile by North Korea ( BE ), No. 221 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemnation by continuing the state of war in Eastern Europe ( PSD ), No 224 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemning the illegalisation process of the Communist Party of Ukraine ( PCP ), No 222 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Welcoming the recognition by the European Union of Folar de Valpaços as a protected geographical indication ( PS ), No 227 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Welcoming the recognition by the European Union of Folar de Valpaços as a protected geographical indication ( PSD ), No 225 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemnation of extrajudicial executions and use of torture in Syria ( PS ) and No 229 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemnation by the operation of destabilization and aggression against the Arab Republic of Syria ( CFP ). For this set of votes it was requested that there be a debate, and it was allocated 4 minutes to each parliamentary group, that the Members of Parliament. Members of each bench can use as they understand. First of all, Mr Sérgio Azevedo of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The North Korean regime has been another precursor of a serious violation of international law deliberately agitating the most diverse resolutions of the United Nations Security Council. Since the beginning of the last year that the challenge to the security of the international community has intensified in that region, with ballistic and nuclear missile tests, in a provocative attitude against the international commitments that North Korea has taken, against the principles of international law and the conventions on nuclear weapons proliferation. This serious situation must unite the international community against the threat to humanity and the fundamental humanist principles of freedom, security and peace, vehemently condemning the development of North Korea's nuclear programme and demanding its immediate end as a guarantor of regional and international peace and security. But the attention of our Parliament, as an area of democratic freedom and tolerance, must be positioned on the worsening we have witnessed of the conflict in East Ukraine. on 27 February, we will record three years of armed conflict in that territory where, according to the International Criminal Court, dozens of crimes are committed, such as torture, death and kidnapping, estimating the death of more than 10,000 people since the end of 2014, in a clear and unequivocal violation of human rights, moreover, unqualified and unjustifiable in the light of any argument. The terrible confrontations in Ukraine are a gross violation of the ceasefire established by the Minsk Agreement. The end of violence in Ukraine is a moral imperative and must be in the priorities of the European agenda and European leaders. The urgency for the end of the confrontations, the condemnation for the violation of human rights and more individual freedoms and the urgent application of the Minsk agreement is a reason why we cannot be indifferent. But we must also refuse indifference to the most serious of the stages of permanent violations against all the values that sustain us as free men. in Syria, the persecutions of political activists, lawmakers, journalists and indiscriminate imprisonment of more than 11 000 opponents to the regime are the confirmation of a modern tyranny that, as an international plan to combat terrorism, has gained ground in that territory. The indiscriminate attacks involving the use of terror tactics, air strikes, barrel bombs and vacuum bombs, incendiary weapons, chemical weapons and heavy artillery, indiscriminately victimizing thousands of civilians, have already led the United Nations to recognize that, in that region, indiscriminate bombings continue in a shocking and relentless manner, killing and maiming civilians, subjecting them to a level of savagery that no human being should bear. Can the parliaments of free and democratic nations witness passively and validate the fight against terrorism through actions close to terrorism? They can't! Can tolerant and democratic parliaments make concessions to the populism of a regime, apologizing to those who transgress without forgiveness the values that sustain the international community? They can't! It is precisely against the insistences of human rights violations and international law, such as in Ukraine, Syria, North Korea or any other territory, that a free, democratic and tolerant Parliament as ours should be. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u164	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Francisco Rocha.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This congratulation vote on the Folar de Valpaços is a fair and meaningful recognition of this Chamber to whom you never cease to make even more fantastic, I would say, even, in this case, pleasant, the wonderful kingdom of Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro, of which he spoke, in an incomparable way, Miguel Torga. Similarly, this vote should be included in the strategy of valuing transboundary endogenous products which, through this certification, sees an important instrument for incorporating value into this unique product of unmistakable flavor, adding added added value to the whole local economy and strengthening tourist and gastronomic attraction. It is also a tribute to all those who, for years, have improved their formula, have not given up their manufacture and have not relaxed their disclosure and who now, at the end of more than 10 years, see their effort and dedication recognized and valued. The PS bench thus congratulated all who contributed to this certification process being crowned with success, particularly the mayors of the Valpaços municipality, the official bodies protected by the Ministry of Agriculture, the Coopaces cooperative and, in particular, the producers who, with their knowledge of decades, feared to keep this secular tradition alive.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u166	Mrs Isabel Santos of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u167	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Socialist Party's parliamentary bench, I join the vote on condemnation for the continuation of the conflict in Eastern Europe. This is a conflict that has already caused more than two million refugees, more than 20,000 injured and more than 10,000 dead. It is a vast human tragedy to which it is important to charge quickly. Unfortunately, in the last few months, from mid-September onwards, there has been an increase in the strength of this conflict and in the violations of the Minsk agreements on ceasefire and the creation of humanitarian conditions in the territory. In addition to an appeal to all European leaders to make quick efforts to end this conflict, I would like to stress the importance of the special monitoring mission of the OSCE, of more than 700 unarmed men and women who every day on the ground struggle to create better humanitarian conditions in the territory and to restore the state of peace. Mr President, that is how I end my speech. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u168	Mrs Wanda Guimarães spoke for the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The vote presented by the Socialist Party on the condemnation of extrajudicial summary executions in Syria and on the use of torture in the detention of Saydnaya is easily explained. The Socialist Party is and will always be against any attack and violation of human rights, regardless of the regime or latitude in which they occur. This is a fundamental issue for us, which is not negotiable. It is a question of human rights: the right to life, the right to freedom, the right to security. We are against the use of torture and ill-treatment of prisoners, as is happening brutally and perfectly unacceptable, and this vote is also a warning to the international community which, often, in these cases and in a somewhat opportunistic way, tends to look aside. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u170	To speak, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We saw, in the international landscape, an increasingly belligerent discourse by world powers, a race to arms and a return to a past that we hoped would be far-off and not a mirror in a near future. I am speaking, for example, of speeches by the leaders of the United States of America, its President, in particular, and by Russian leaders, who are aware of the will of their countries to "strike out" of agreements signed earlier with a view to nuclear disarmament and even of the intention of, in an arms race, to strengthen their military arsenal, particularly their nuclear arsenal. in a context in which, also on the Korean peninsula, North Korea has decided to insist on its process of demonstration of force inciting some regional animes, this demonstrates some of the foci of international instability against which a democratic Parliament must defend a peaceful path to solving international problems and which has already repeatedly been pronounced by the withdrawal of nuclear warheads and nuclear weapons, if it should rise, in defence of an agenda that would be contrary to what we see emerging before us. That is what we propose in the vote that the Left Block presents to this House, rejecting and denouncing the path that North Korea has made but also calling for a new arms race to exist and, therefore, calling for, or rather, for our democratic criterion, that the world powers now have no desire to seek more nuclear weapons, contrary to the international agreements in question. There are other votes in debate that we want to follow with regard to the defence of human rights, the condemnation of torture and the encroachment of fundamental rights or even the absence of rule of law. in this matter, we have neither two words nor two positions, we are frontally for the defence of human rights, democracy and for the fight against war crimes and for their denunciation. However, there are two votes we do not follow in this debate. One is the PSD vote on Ukraine. Our position on this issue is known and has already been voted on here in Parliament, but we do not follow the way this vote is presented, and we have introduced a narrative between the good and the bad. We believe that there is, unfortunately, a war in Ukraine that is at its borders and that goes through disrespect for the will of its people. There are belligerent powers in Ukraine that find their focus on conflict, but do not make Ukraine, therefore, a scenario in which we easily identify who are the good and the bad, as it tries to make the PSD vote appear. We defend a peaceful solution, respect for democracy and, above all, respect for the will of the Ukrainian people. with regard to the vote presented by the PCP on Syria, we also defend the will of the Syrian people in its different aspects. So when we talk about the completeness of the Syrian territory, for example, we are attacking the rights of the Kurdish people to their self-determination and therefore we do not follow this vote. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u172	To speak, Mrs Carla Cruz of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP will vote in favour of the two votes presented on Ukraine. The news coming from Ukraine confirms the success of the PCP's assessment of the events that led to the February 2014 coup d'état and show a picture of constant and growing repression and violation of the resulting fundamental civil rights and freedoms, beat this encouraged and sponsored by the participation of Ukrainian fascist charisc forces. in this plan, the seriousness of the campaign led by power against democratic forces, in particular against the Communist Party of Ukraine, is noted. By registering numerous acts of intimidation and violence, this campaign has as a deliberate objective the illegalization of the PCU. At the same time, the war launched by power in Kiev against the Ukrainian population of Donbass is highlighted, causing hundreds of thousands of civilian and refugee victims. The immediate end of Kiev's military campaign against the Donbass population and the need to comply with agreements between the parties involved is required. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Arab Republic of Syria and its people have been victims of an operation of destabilization and war of aggression for about six years. in the path of the wars of aggression and destruction of Iraq and Libya, disregarding the most fundamental rights of the Syrian people and international law, this war aims to destroy the Syrian state with its sovereign, independent, multicultural and pan-Arab position. This is a war of aggression that has been sustained by a broad campaign of misinformation and public opinion manipulation operations that in many cases constitute an authentic propaganda of war. The demand that is placed on all those who defend the rights of the Syrian people and peace is the bold denunciation of the campaigns that support the actions carried out by the armed groups and the countries that support aggression against Syria and its people and the shameful association or conviviality with it. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The tense situation on the Korean peninsula has experienced new developments with the announcement of the installation of the United States anti-missile system in the Republic of Korea and the latest announcement of the reinforcement of the nuclear programme and of a test to launch an intercontinental ballistic missile by the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. The current situation on the Korean peninsula has historical roots, particularly in the Korean War and in the unilateral division of this country imposed by the military intervention of the United States, which has since maintained a strong military presence, including nuclear weapons, in this region, fueling a permanent tension that is contrary to the interests and aspirations of the Korean people and the peaceful reunification of their homeland and which is inserted into the dangerous military escalation that is underway in the Asia-Pacific region. The resolution of the Korean peninsula conflict requires steps towards defuse tension and respect for the basic principles of international relations, such as State sovereignty, non-interference in internal affairs, non-threatening and non-use of force to resolve disputes. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For all this, with the votes presented by the CFP, we reaffirm our solidarity with the workers and the Ukrainian people, the militants and leaders of the Ukrainian Communist Party who struggle every day for peace, social welfare, sovereignty and independence of Ukraine. We condemn the war of aggression against Syria and its people. We support efforts for peace, we demand respect for the human rights of the Syrian people,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u174	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u175	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. ... we demand respect for the sovereignty, independence, territorial integrity of the Syrian Arab Republic, in compliance with the principles of the Charter of the United Nations. We reaffirm the urgency of the abolition of nuclear weapons simultaneously and in a controlled manner. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u176	To speak, Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila, of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are before the votes that are not new and that respect matters that have already been the subject of concern and even condemnation by this House of the Republic. The position of the CDS on these votes is and has always been clear, it has not changed since we last adopted a vote on the situation in Korea in January, nor has it changed on the votes, which we have already adopted here, on the situation in Syria. We condemn the repeated violation of human rights in Syria in a war that seems to have no end, in which the only innocent are the civilian population. As we also know, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, nuclear tests constitute a clear violation of international law, international commitments and a flagrant violation of nuclear weapons conventions. The escalation of nuclear weapons is worrying and questions regional and international security. That is why, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we should deserve a firm and modest condemnation, we should deserve a general condemnation of all those who foresee and not just a partial condemnation of those who do us well. We defend compliance with UN resolutions and international law, respect for human rights, and condemn any actions that are against international security, especially those that are repeated. I would like to conclude, Mr President, by saying that the differences in tone, but also position, of some parties who speak of the illegalization of the Communist Party in Ukraine are firm, but when we speak of condemnation of the acts of the North Korean government, are weak. It doesn't stop being a big difference, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: the illegalization of a party deserves condemnation, nuclear testing is a matter of concern! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u178	We are therefore in a position to proceed to the vote of this group of votes. Let's start with vote No 220 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemning the launch of a medium-range missile and the continued development of the North Korea nuclear programme ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP and the PCP's abstention.]] [[It is as follows: Last February 12, North Korea announced that it had successfully launched a medium-range missile from its Banghyon base, flying east towards Japan's sea. The launch of this missile constitutes a clear violation of international law, especially since North Korea is banned by UN Security Council resolutions from launching ballistic missiles or from testing nuclear weapons. Despite this ban, North Korea continues its capacity-building nuclear weapons development programme, even having carried out several missile launches and two nuclear tests in 2016. In fact, in January 2016 North Korea claimed to have carried out an underground nuclear test, testing a hydrogen bomb. In March, the North Korean authorities claimed that they had managed to miniaturize a thermonuclear warhead. In August, the first shot of a ballistic missile in Japanese waters and the launch of another missile from a submarine was given. Three missiles were launched during the G20 Summit in China in September and the fifth nuclear test was carried out in September. The United Nations Security Council unanimously condemned this launch and even threatened to impose new'significant measures' against North Korea for the systematic violation of international commitments made by the principles of international law and nuclear arms conventions. The international community also mobilized against further this provocation of North Korea, with convictions from the United States, Japan, South Korea and also from the Secretary-General of NATO, who consider this launch as another attack on security in that region and peace in the world. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, decides to present a condemnation vote for the continued development of the North Korean nuclear programme and the launch of missiles associated with it, calling for it to ensure regional and international security.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u179	Mrs. Members, let us vote No 223 / XII ( 2. ( a ) — Voltage conviction on the Korean peninsula ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, the CDS-PP and PS Deputies António Gameiro and Vitalino Canas, votes in favour of BE, the CCP of The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention were rejected.]] [[It was as follows: The tense situation on the Korean peninsula has experienced new developments with the installation of the United States missile system in the Republic of Korea and a mid-range missile test by the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. The current situation on the Korean peninsula has historical roots, particularly in the Korean War and the unilateral division of this country imposed by the military intervention of the United States, which has since maintained a strong military presence — including nuclear weapons — in this region, fueling a permanent tension that is contrary to the interests and aspirations of the Korean people to the peaceful reunification of their homeland and which is inserted into the dangerous military escalation that is underway in the Asia-Pacific region. The resolution of the conflict on the Korean peninsula calls for steps towards defuse of tension and respect for the basic principles of international relations, such as the sovereignty of States, non-interference in their internal affairs, non-threat and non-use of force to resolve disputes. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session: (a) Expresses its concern at the maintenance of tension on the Korean peninsula and on the Asia-Pacific region; (b) Reaffirms the urgency of the abolition of nuclear weapons simultaneously and in a controlled manner; (c) Calls for the development of initiatives that, within the framework of respect for the principles of the Charter of the United Nations, aim at the demilitarization of the Korean peninsula and its peaceful reunification, recognizing to the Korean people the right to peace and contributing to the demobilization in this region.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u180	We turn to the vote on vote No 228 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemning the launch of a ballistic missile by North Korea ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the abstention from the CFP.]] [[It is as follows: North Korea launched a ballistic missile towards the Japanese sea. This launch, which took place on 12 February, cannot fail to be condemned for representing another step in the arms race and for accentuated regional tensions. The arms race seems to be settling worldwide. The intention expressed by leaders of Russia or the United States of America to disengage international agreements for nuclear disarmament materializes one of the most worrying aspects of this process. In fact, at a time when it is still implementing the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, the intention to renew and even create new nuclear weapons is unacceptable and cannot go without criticism. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, condemns the launch of a ballistic missile by North Korea, rejects the international arms race, affirms the need for a global commitment to nuclear disarmament and calls for the implementation of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u181	We shall vote on vote No 221 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemning the continued state of war in Eastern Europe ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the PAN and the Abstaining from BE and the Greens.]] [[On 27 February, it was three years after the outbreak of the armed conflict in eastern Ukraine, which had already caused about 10,000 victims, according to the data provided by the UN, and a huge instability in that region, Europe and the international system. In recent weeks, violence between the pro-Russian separatists and the government forces has re-emerged in eastern Ukraine, calling once again attention to a conflict that is a clear violation of human rights and the principles of international law. At the same time, these new confrontations are a violation of the ceasefire established by the Minsk Agreement, signed in February 2015, and prove how unstable the situation in that region of Europe remains. The violation of human rights and the death of civilians is something we cannot accept and cannot be justified by any geopolitical objective. The international community must work towards a peaceful solution to this conflict in Crimea that respects what has been agreed upon in Minsk. The end of violence in eastern Ukraine is a moral imperative and, as such, must be one of the priorities of European leaders, who should work to find a solution that will effectively resolve this issue leading to the end of hostilities between the belligerent parties. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, comes to call for the end of the clashes in eastern Ukraine, taking into account the large number of victims that have already provoked and the instability they have caused; condemn the violation of human rights and individual freedoms in that part of Europe; support the full implementation of the Minsk Agreement, in order to enable the parties in conflict to assume the responsibilities necessary for the establishment of peace and security of the people.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u182	The vote on vote No 224 / XIII ( 2 ) was followed. ( a ) — Condemning the illegalisation process of the Communist Party of Ukraine ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[Considering the serious attack on the exercise of fundamental rights, freedoms and guarantees which constituted the adoption, in 2015, of an anti-democratic law under which the Ministry of Justice of Ukraine initiated the process of banning the activity of the Communist Party of Ukraine and its consequent illegalization; In view of the fact that the Communist Party of Ukraine, among other democratic Ukrainian forces, is prevented from continuing its political intervention at the institutional level as a result of that process aimed at illegalisation; Stressing that such acts contravene the rules and conventions of international law; The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session: Condemns the process of illegalization of the Communist Party of Ukraine and calls for the repeal of the anti-democratic law in which it is upheld, guaranteeing the exercise of fundamental rights, freedoms and guarantees to the Ukrainian people.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u183	Mr. Eurico Brilliant Dias, you asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u184	To inform you that I will present a statement of vote on this last vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u185	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall vote on vote No 222 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Welcoming the recognition by the European Union of the Folar de Valpaços as a protected geographical indication ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[After a long process that dates back more than 10 years, Valpaços saw one of its most appreciated regional products, the Folar de Valpaços, being the subject of geographical indication protected by the European Union. This appears to all valpacenses as a reason for pride and above all a recognition of the large number of commercial promoters of the folar which, throughout the various generations, have improved their manufacture and dissemination, constituting a national reference product, generating wealth for the municipality and for the region of Upper Themega. It is undoubtedly a tribute to the manufacturers of this regional product, who can see, after many years, their efforts and commitment recognized and valued. As Valpaços is a municipality in the interior of the country, with a high rate of depopulation, the appreciation of its regional products constitutes a significant contribution to strengthening its economic fabric and above all a reason for the appeal of the municipality. This consecration reinforces a reaffirmation of the council and is the important and reference point for its tourism promotion, as well as an important contribution to its local economy. Thus, in the applicable regulatory and constitutional terms, the Assembly congratulates all those who have contributed and mobilized to ensure that the process was successfully completed, particularly to the municipalities of Valpaços and COOPACEOS, and to address a greeting to those who, with knowledge of decades, have feared to keep this secular tradition alive, who is moving a chain of actors, from the manufacture of the follar and passing through the smoke industry used in their production.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u186	We turn to the vote on vote No 227 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Welcoming the recognition by the European Union of the Folar de Valpaços as a protected geographical indication ( PSD ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[The Official Journal of the European Union published this week the registration of Folar de Valpaços in the register of protected designations of origin and protected geographical indications (PGIs). This is an ambition of the autoarchs and of the population of the Valpaços municipality with over a decade and which, as a result of the work of recent years, is now being realized, in particular thanks to the research and work of the municipal chamber in partnership with COOPAZOS, with the DRAPN (Regional Directorate for Agriculture and Northern Fisheries). In this process, it was sought that the Folar of Valpaços IGP was no longer only a certified product, and other forms of packaging and other forms of marketing were included in order to ensure that this product can be valued through its export to any part of the world. With the publication of the Implementing Regulation concerning the inclusion of the name ‘Folar de Valpaços (PGI)’, it shall be 138 to be protected from the European Union qualification system (EU). The culmination of this process is the public recognition of the Folar de Valpaços, of the work and commitment of the Authority and of the Quality Products Section of the Valpaços Agricultural Cooperative, of the producers of Folar de Valpaços, of the population in general for the preservation of "knowledge-making", a historical tradition transmitted from generation to generation. Thus, in the applicable regulatory and constitutional terms, the Assembly of the Republic commends all those who have worked for this objective, in particular the local electors, represented by the President of the Chamber, and the leaders of the COOPACEOS, and directs a very special greeting to all those who continue to ensure the conditions for the manufacture and marketing of this iconic product of Valpaços lands.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u187	The vote on vote No 225/ XIII ( 2 ) followed. ( a ) — Condemnation of extrajudicial executions and use of torture in Syria ( PS ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against the CFP and the Greens' abstention.]] [[Since 2011, at least 250 000 Syrians have died in four and a half years of armed conflict, which began with anti-winter protests and grew up until civil war broke out. More than 11 million people had to leave their homes, due to the struggle between loyal forces to President Bashar al-Assad and his opponents, and also under the threat of radical militants from the Islamic State. Amnesty International's latest report sets out the policy of extrajudicial executions and acts of torture against the civilian population. According to its investigation, carried out between 2015 and 2016, Saydnaya prison was a stage of thousands of hangings, performed in secret, between the years 2011 and 2015. The report also states that most people hanged were civil opponents to the regime, subjected to violent forms of physical and psychological torture in order to compel them to confess alleged crimes. It also relates the document that prisoners were subjected to superficial and arbitrary judicial procedures of a few minutes, resulting in convictions based on false confessions obtained under torture. Large numbers of detainees were also killed as a result of other authorities' exterminance practices, including repeated torture and systematic deprivation of food, water, medicines and clinical care. These events have now widened the long list of criminal acts carried out during these years of conflict and are a warning to the international community, especially to the members of the UN Security Council, so that they can work resolutely towards achieving a sustainable and lasting peace agreement. Human rights must be prevalent and preferred vis-à-vis other interests or powers. Thus, under the applicable regulations and constitutional provisions, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary: Condemns acts of violence and extrajudicial executions, as well as the use of torture, against civilians in Syria, considering that such practices constitute serious violations of human rights, whose authors cannot be unpunished, and which adversely affect the possibility of reaching a peace agreement between the parties in conflict.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u188	Let us vote No 229 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemnation by the operation of destabilization and aggression against the Arab Republic of Syria ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, and BE abstention.]] [[It was as follows: The Arab Republic of Syria, its people, has been the victim of an operation of destabilization and war of aggression for about six years. A war of aggression perpetrated by armed groups — promoted by the United States and its allies in Europe and the Middle East — who are responsible for heinous crimes, brutal violations of human rights, death, suffering and destruction, by millions of displaced persons and refugees. A war of aggression that, in the path of the wars of aggression and destruction of Iraq and Libya and by disrespecting the most fundamental rights of the Syrian people and international law, aims to destroy the Syrian State, with its sovereign, independent, multicultural and pan-Arab position. A war of aggression that has been sustained by a broad campaign of misinformation and public opinion manipulation operations which, in several cases, constitute genuine propaganda of war. The demand that is placed on all those who defend the rights of the Syrian people and peace is the bold denunciation of the campaigns that support the actions carried out by the armed groups and the countries that support aggression against Syria and the Syrian people and not the shameful association or convivence with them. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session: Condemns the war of aggression against Syria and its people, supports the efforts for peace, calls for respect for human rights, all rights of the Syrian people, the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of the Syrian Arab Republic, in fulfilling the principles of the Charter of the United Nations.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u189	Mr Vitalino Canas, have you asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u190	Mr President, it is to be announced that I will present explanations of vote on votes Nos 223 and 224 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u191	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 646 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Move of the President of the Republic to Belgium ( RA President ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 652 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take urgent and integrated measures to decontaminate the Vizela River ( CFP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote together on draft resolutions Nos 653 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, in consultation with the competent authorities, undertake a set of actions aimed at depolating the Vizela River ( PSD ), 661 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake urgent investigation of pollution incidents in the Vizela River by identifying the causes and those responsible for the clearance of counter-ordinary and criminal responsibilities and by developing, in conjunction with the municipalities and entities involved, a Plan of Surveillance, Prevention, Control and Mitigation, to definitively depolate the Vizela River and recoveries from the entire surrounding area ( CDS-PP ), 662 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Depollution of the river Vizela with the involvement of the municipalities ( The Greens) and 663 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends urgent measures for depollution of the river Vizela ( BE ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the general vote on Bill No 45 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves measures for uniform application and practical enforcement of the right to free movement of workers by transposing Directive 2014 / 54 / EU. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] This diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. We shall, in general, vote on Bill No 54 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Facilitates recognition of professional qualifications and reduces constraints on the free movement of persons and transposes Directive 2013 / 55 / EU. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] This diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. The general vote on Bill No 55 / XIII ( 2 ) follows. ( a ) — transposes Directive 2014 / 67 / EU on the posting of workers within the framework of the provision of services. [[When put to the vote, the PS, CDS-PP, the CCP, the Greens and the NAP were voted on and BE abstained.]] This diploma goes down to 10. the Commission. Mrs. Members, we are going to vote together on two applications submitted by the PS and the BE, asking the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees for a 30-day period, respectively, of Bill No 52 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establishs the system of balanced representation between women and men in the administrative and supervisory bodies of companies in the public business sector and listed companies in the stock market, and of draft law No 406 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Promotes gender equality in the composition of State administration bodies ( BE ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 409 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government define a strategy for State responsibility in the management of Portuguese sporting heritage ( PSD ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote together of six requests submitted by the BE, the PCP, the PAN, the PS, the PS, and the CDS-PP, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without voting for a 30-day period of its following diplomas: draft resolution No 624 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the reduction of judicial costs ( BE ) of the projects of lein.o 399 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates the mission unit for the review of the judicial costs regime ( CFP ), 408 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Ensure access to the law and courts by making the benefit of the exemption of more comprehensive judicial costs ( PAN) and 409 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Ensure access to the law and courts by introducing amendments to the Rules of Procedure ( PAN) and draft resolutions Nos 659 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the assessment and revision of the Rules of Procedure ( PSD ), 660 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the study, evaluation and implementation of new measures that improve the conditions of access to law and justice ( PS ) and 666 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government review the system of access to law and courts and the Rules of Procedure ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the general vote on Bill No 53 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Review the securities law sanction scheme, transpose Directive 2014 / 57 / EU and Implementing Directive ( EU ) 2015 / 2392 and adapt the Portuguese law to Regulation ( EU ) No 596 / 2014. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] This diploma goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall, in general, vote on Bill No 56 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Adopts a transitional measure to reduce the special payment on account as provided for in Article 106. that of the Tax Code on the Income of Collectives. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] This diploma goes down to 5. the Commission. The general vote on Bill No 402 / XIII ( 2 ) follows. ( a ) — creates the conditions for the replacement of the special payment on account by a simplified scheme based on technical-economic coefficients by sector of activity ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This diploma goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall now vote together on two applications submitted by the PS and the BE, asking the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works to be discharged, without a vote, within 30 days of draft resolution No 618 / XIII ( 2 ) respectively. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish mechanisms to simplify the procedure for reimbursement of social mobility allowance ( PS ) and draft law No 407 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Simplifies and prevents possible fraud in the allocation of social mobility allowance to residents in the autonomous regions. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 316 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Extraordinary Investment II Tax Credit ( CFEI II ) ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 665 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — In order to prevent the use of nuclear energy ( The Greens ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP, with votes in favour of the Greens and with abstentions from BE, the CFP and the NAP.]] Let us now vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing on draft resolutions Nos 427 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to update the Special Realisation Programme ( PER ) ( BE ) — the initial text was replaced at the request of the author, 597 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government carry out an evaluation of the Special Realisation Programme ( PER ) and consider the introduction of amendments to the scheme in order to update it in order to adapt it to the needs of the current family aggregates by promoting the rehabilitation of buildings ( CDS-PP ), 599 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government carry out the national census of all situations in Portugal which are in need of reallocation, in conjunction with local authorities, and develop a new resettlement programme ( PSD ) and 600 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends urgent measures for the suspension of demolition and disposals without alternative, updating housing needs and ensuring the right to adequate housing and social protection ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u192	Mr Joaquim Raposo, have you asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u193	It is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the last vote taken, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u194	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Emília Santos, have you also asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u195	To make an oral vote on this matter, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u196	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u197	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would like to leave two brief notes, in the form of a statement of vote, on this diploma, which aims at establishing a new national resettlement programme which guarantees effective access to the right to housing. The first note is to congratulate ourselves on the consensus reached on this matter. This is why the PSD has again demonstrated that, in either power or opposition, it is a responsible party, a cause party and a consensus-building party. The second note is to allude to the fact that, since several diplomas have been presented by the various parliamentary groups in this area, the resolution that Portugal needs, the resolution that requires us to look at the country rather than isolated cases, the resolution that imposes the national lifting of the shortcomings of resettlement and social protection, the resolution that requires the creation of a new programme of extended resettlement to the national territory and autonomous regions which guarantees the right to housing. Finally, the resolution which ensures the financing of this response has also come up, because it is not far off to make any censuses and seek solutions without the corresponding financial envelope. Mr President, we are convinced that today the Members, the political parties and Parliament have come out prestigious in the vote that has just taken place. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u198	I must say that I have the greatest doubts as to whether these oral explanations of vote are being made. But there have been precedents in another legislation rather than with this President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u199	They're regiments, Mr. President. You can rest with your conscience!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u200	You have the floor, too, for a statement of vote, Mr Pedro Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I just want to welcome the work done in the framework of the Working Party on Housing, Urban Rehabilitation and City Policies, of the Parliamentary Committee on the Environment, Territorial Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing, which has reached a common, unanimous text with all parliamentary groups, on the basis of a plan that we find essential, which is to reactivate the ability to increase public investment, to increase public housing supply. Since 2009 there has been no public investment relevant to the provision of public housing with serious social consequences in terms of the ability to access compliance with Article 65. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, the right to housing. With this draft resolution, we want to see that this situation can be reversed, that this investment can be reversed in public housing and that this government, in this legislature, can take fundamental steps so that access to housing is more democratized, be full, so that this constitutional design is actually fulfilled. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u202	For a statement of vote, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We would also like to mention at the moment some aspects of the initiative we have just approved in the Assembly of the Republic. One first aspect to note is that unanimity in relation to this project was possible exactly because the PSD and CDS are not in government. In previous times this discussion was held in the Assembly of the Republic, these problems were brought here and the answer was, in fact, quite different from the PSD and the CDS. The second aspect that we would like to mention is that we greatly appreciate the resolution that was possible to achieve, the work carried out by the Housing Working Group, Urban Rehabilitation and City Policies in the area of housing shortages and the need of the Assembly to take a political position on this matter, too. In any case, we regret that one aspect of the resolution has not gone further, in particular in the perennial statement that there must be a definitive solution for people if there is no clearance or demolition. We greatly appreciate the set of concrete aspects that the resolution entails, in particular with regard to the identification of housing needs, to make an exhaustive survey, to make a survey in addition to what was done in the context of the PER (Special Programme of Realisation), to find definitive concrete solutions for these families, for these residents, and to the existence of a financial package to give realisation to the same programme and those solutions. It is now necessary for the Government to start this path by adopting this resolution in the Assembly of the Republic, and it can, as soon as possible, implement the set of recommendations of the Assembly of the Republic. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u204	For a statement of vote too, Mrs Helena Roseta of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u205	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would just like to stress that it is indeed important that this debate has been taken unanimously. We are faced with a situation in which there are tens of thousands of families in Portugal who have severe housing shortage and since 2009 there has been no programme, there has been no funding to support these families at national level. This year we have a small financing of EUR 5 million in the State budget. It is insufficient, but we all understand — and that is why unanimity — that we have to make a new national programme, we have to make a national survey of all needs, and the government has to start working on this. I therefore stress just one last point: this draft resolution has a very important point and we in the Working Group here in the Assembly of the Republic will follow the implementation of this resolution because we consider this to be a national priority. Mr. Prime Minister said here some time ago that in 2017 housing was to be a national priority. It will begin to be so, it is being so, and with this programme it will have to be already, even if with a few words in the Budget, preparing the next year's budget, but making, from now on, the lifting of the shortages to know how many families in Portugal are waiting for the Assembly and the Government to give them an answer. [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u206	Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco has the floor, for a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u207	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would just like to point out that, in such an important area as this of the Special Programme on Realisation, it is to point out the capacity that all parties had to reach a common text in this draft resolution, in order to solve a problem that is really serious for the country and because of the fact that this special programme currently exists, without any doubt, already outdated. Therefore, Mr President, the CDS welcomes this unanimity and, of course, hopes that the Government will be sensitive to what the Assembly of the Republic recommends to it in this draft resolution and that, indeed, it will create a new resettlement programme, which is so important for the country. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-17.u208	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Assembly of the Republic also welcomes the unanimity and general congratulations. We are therefore putting an end to today's agenda. The next plenary meeting will be held next Wednesday at 3 p.m. and will have on the agenda the 15th anniversary debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( b ) ( 2 ). the Rules of Procedure. I wish everyone a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 55 minutes.]]
