ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 10 hours and 7 minutes.]] I'm asking the authorities to open the galleries. of the first item of our agenda is the debate of Question No 14 / XIII ( 2. ( a) — On the forest and desertification of the rural world (The Greens). To intervene in the stage of the debate, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What the Green Party today is proposing to Parliament is that we take a serious look at the structural problems that affect our forest and our rural world and which unfortunately contribute to the disaster of forest fires, some of which have left dimensions, such as those that occurred in 2003, where 18 people died, about 100 homes have been destroyed and the size of the burning area has reached more than 425 000 ha, or as the fires with such tragic consequences that have now occurred in the area of Pedrogão Grande, with 64 fatal victims, more than 200 injured and not fully calculated material damage. Without wanting to remove the specificities of each occurrence, the truth is that every year the country is haunted by the scourge of forest fires. It turns out that in 2003 what was most heard was that the drama had to be an opportunity to change a lot; with devastating fires in subsequent years, 14 years later what has been heard is that the tragedy of Great Pedragon has to be an opportunity for a lot of change. What the Green Party considers it important to say is that the many that have not changed was not due to the lack of identification of problems, nor to the identification of solutions. There is one issue that definitely has to stop being present only in the speeches in order to guide political decision-making, which we will be able to synthesize as the subject of climate change. The truth is that we live in a climate with Mediterranean characteristics, where summer is hot and dry, which is not new. But the phenomenon of global warming threatens to make climate extremes more evident and recurrent, with more severe heat waves and scarcity of moisture. If we leave answers to these scenarios only in the studies and reports produced and do not adapt the country to this reality, it is not surprising that we suffer the inevitable consequences of this inertia. It is for these tougher climate scenarios that we need to be prepared, trapping the territory and management of this territory in order to create greater resilience. We can even continue to regret the chance that we have had with the very high temperatures, which we cannot continue to be unaware and, therefore, making our forest area more resistant is an obligation we have. We will put things in these terms, for those who like to always sustain the causes in natural phenomena: an earthquake with the same magnitude will not produce the same effects in a territory where housing is anti-seismic or in a territory where constructions do not have seismic resistance. With the forest, the same happens before the forest fires: the degree of resistance that the forest areas have is one of the keys to the greatest or least impact of the fire. Now, among the factors that compete to create forest resistance, the question of species and how they are integrated into the forest is not of minor importance. It is thus a profound irresponsibility to ignore or devalue the fact that the forest area in Portugal is filled with extensive and continuous stains of eucalyptus. Let's talk straight, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens do not want to eradicate the species of the planet, nor even banish its existence in Portugal. The problem is the monoculture of this kind of rapid, quite flammable growth, which since the 1980s has been increasingly invading our forest to serve the celluloses, also occupying agricultural areas, whose activity has been liquidating, so that the National Forest Inventory (IFN) leaves no doubt about the fact that the eucalyptus is already the dominant species in the forest occupation, reaching an area of 812 000 ha, with its total area growing 13 % between 1995 and 2010. This reality was further compounded by what became known as the « eucalyptus law », the RJAAR, of the authority of the PSD / CDS government in 2013, which established the legal regime applicable to logging and re-arboring actions and which liberalized eucalyptus planting. from the total area of 65 000 ha of approved trees and re-aborbations by 2016, 41 000 ha correspond to eucalyptal, which means 63 %. In other words, the tendency was to accentuate the presence of eucalyptus monoculture in the Portuguese forest area, to accentuate the expansion of this kind of rapid growth. In view of this reality, The Greens, who over the years have devoted much attention and intervention to the issues of the forest, when they discussed and signed with the PS the joint position which established political guidelines to carry out in this Legislation, could not fail to establish the need to halt the growth of the area of eucalyptus and to increase the area occupied by native species, valuing the productivity of the mountain of Sour and Azinho. The challenge that The Greens launched to the PS was that it would end the time of construction of the forest according to the interests of the celluloses to restore a more diversified and environmentally safer economic and productive value. But there are those who cannot stop being the defender of the great economic interests, even to the obvious detriment of environmental and security values of the territory, and lend themselves to the role of spokesperson of large groups of the paper folder, such as Afocelca, Others, Navigator, ex-Portugal or whatever they want to call them. That was the role that the PSD played yesterday, when Pedro Passos Coelho began to defend the eucalyptus by saying that it is the least burning and where the fire is extinguished more easily — I repeat, where the fire is extinguished more easily! I wonder, what would firefighters have thought, that year after year they are fighting fires in in endless eucalyptals and that they see the fire spreading there as if a continuous trail were being treated? And why do researchers speak of 'bomb trees', referring to oaks or supers and not to eucalyptus, as it is evident, to try to stop the spread of fires? What I would like to say to the PSD is that when you are blind in the defence of great economic interests, you lose the sense of reality and, therefore, you lose the ability to serve the public interest. But to create resilience in the forest is not only to intervene on the dominance of monocultures of species of forest settlements, but also through responsible management that promotes, for example, the execution of fuel management ranges, the collection and use of biomass and the creation, identification and maintenance of water points. They are matters for which the State cannot assume a deresponsibility, shielding itself because of the reality of small forest property. The deresponsibility of the State in relation to the forest has already cost us a lot. The liquidation of the forest guards body, which, in addition to the local populations themselves, were those who had greater knowledge of the forest territory and who promoted their surveillance, determining the detection of fire outbreaks, was perhaps of the greatest barbarities that have occurred in recent years. At the same time, forest slag teams are more than insufficient and are far from reaching the number of operations promised. This disresponsibility of the State joins the responsibility of successive governments for the depopulation of the rural world and, therefore, for the fragility of the space where the forest and the forests are inserted, making it more vulnerable to fires. The buffer role that agricultural areas played in defence of the forest has been gradually diminished and eliminated, when what resulted from the policy of the European Union and successive governments was, inter alia, the stagnation of national agricultural production, both in volume and in value, the degradation of agricultural income for the vast majority of farmers, the loss of nearly 550 000 agricultural workers, the elimination of some 400 000 agricultural holdings, the greatest food dependence from abroad. The abandonment of agricultural and grazing areas, resulting from policies of devaluation of national production, removed territory of intermittent and forest protection and emptied a good dose of forest surveillance capacity that the populations themselves naturally carried out. It is also important that those who have been governing this country are well aware that, whenever inside or in rural areas they have closed a public service of proximity, they have closed a school, a health unit, a team or a security force post, a position of the CTTs, it has always been a contribution that they have made to empty this rural world more and to give him a sentence of abandonment. Much of what has been sold as a saving in the country, invoking deficits, budgetary treaties and stability pacts, was after all the fragility of our territory and our heritage, which costs us dearly when in emergency situations, such as in the case of forest fires, we spend money to recover what is still recoverable. Brussels tells us that it is possible that the costs of these emergency support may not be calculated in the deficit, but perhaps it would be productive to also ensure that costs with prevention so that new disasters do not take back the proportions they have already taken are damaged by this deficit. The principles of prevention and caution do not, however, appear to be part of the strategy of a European Union with a focus on concrete realities and peoples. Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Members, if we want a multifunctional dynamic for the forest, it is crucial to diversify production much beyond the large groups that monopolize this production, ensuring tax and economic strategies to improve incomes, including prices in wood production, small and medium-sized agroforestry producers. If the European and national funds do not continue to run out on large owners, there is room for the success of many small farms. However, we should not lose sight of the fact that the environmental function of the forest is so relevant, with the ecosystem services it provides to societies at the level of biodiversity, carbon retention, climate regulation or others, which, as a society, we are all involved in its defence, regardless of the structure of the property. And, therefore, we cannot accept the State's de-responsibility in this desire to protect the forest and to dedicate investments in human and technical means to confront forest fires with the greatest resistance. Even to finish, Mr. President and Mr. Members, there are issues for which this brutal and tragic fire of Pedrogão Grande, which has had the consequences that we all know, has alerted us in an emerging way. The fact is that, if we cannot lose sight of the responsibility for coordination, communications, structural measures, surveillance, management and planning of the territory, we must also do what the Greens have already proposed in this House for nuclear accidents, which is to provide the Portuguese population with information, mechanisms to know what they can do in the event of an accident. This project, The Greens presented it here in the Assembly of the Republic. Now, with regard to forest fires, we must do the same. The Portuguese population must be endowed with a sensitivity, information and education on what to do in case of forest fire and in case they can live directly with this dramatic reality of forest fires. in this sense and with this objective, The Greens will present, next week, a project in the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u3	Madam Member, the time spent in the opening intervention will be cut in the time allocated to the stage of debate itself. I would also like to begin by speaking on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Rural Development, Luís Capoulas Santos, whom I would like to congratulate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming this initiative of the Greens Ecological Party, which has allowed us to put on the agenda such an important issue and which unfortunately assumes enormous relevance at this time when we are still suffering the serious effects of the tragedy of Great Pedragon. The physical and human desertification of rural spaces is a global phenomenon, which has been accentuated in Europe in the post-war period and in Portugal from the 60s of the 20th century. United Nations studies point to 20 megalopolis with more than 20 million inhabitants by 2020. To stop and, if possible, reverse this phenomenon is certainly one of the greatest challenges of our society to which, as political decision makers, we must respond. Agriculture and forests can and should contribute to keeping rural spaces alive, but not only obviously. In Portugal, agriculture is fulfilling its role. It has endured the European impact, restructured itself, modernized itself, innovated itself and today, despite the difficulties that always persist, it is an export sector that only in 1. the quarter of this year increased exports by 20 % compared to the same period of the previous year. It is a sector that self-supplys 75% of our food needs and we are even surpluses in birds, eggs, olive oil, wine, milk. Portugal has spent the last 30 years taking advantage of Community resources, in a huge renovation: roads, roads, electrifications, irrigations, fruit and vegetable plants, slaughterhouses, lagares... There has been an enormous positive development. The forest, despite the difficulties and structural problems that we all know and that, I am sure, we are all committed to fighting, is a sector that represents 400 000 owners in Portugal, 10 % of total exports, more than 100 000 jobs and more than 4 billion euros of exports. It is a fundamental resource for the country, which we must protect, defend, optimize in all its aspects: economic, leisure and environmental. And it was in this sense that this Government presented, last October, what it agreed to call « the first step towards a profound reform of the forest in Portugal », obviously taking advantage of all the steps and contributions made in the past—and some have been given, we should not forget - but go further and, above all, taking the difficult decisions, the decisions that have not been possible until today. in this sense, we have presented the first package of 12 diplomas which we have discussed twice here in Parliament and which is now in the final stage of discussion. For this discussion, the Government calls on all Members and expresses full willingness to make the concessions that are necessary, up to their limit, in order to achieve a regime pact for such an important matter as this. In order to combat poor forest management, which is one — if not the main — problem, we have created, in diploma, a generous framework of incentives and incentives for management units, private companies, cooperatives, associations, foundations, all those who can gather, add the small property, so as to make it profitable and manageable. On the other hand, management is inseparable from sorting, and together management and sorting mean clean forest. with regard to forest planning, we intend to go as far as possible, which is to integrate into the municipal guidelines the guidelines of regional forest planning programmes, in order to treat forests as we are dealing with urbanism today. It's an open question. The Government has received some suggestions for supervision and approval not to be based at municipal level, to be able to rise to the level immediately above, the CIM(intermunicipal communities). We are available to assess this hypothesis, if this is necessary for a consensus. In this context, too, we are reviewing the system of trees and reforestation, in a perspective that seems absolutely balanced and rational, that is, we do not want to question the importance of the eucalyptus, the employment and the exports it represents, but we want to discipline it. It is possible, with less area, to have more raw material for the industry. We understand that what is reflected in the Government Programme is possible and necessary as a result of the negotiation that we then did with the Greens in order to stop the expansion of the eucalyptus. New eucalyptus plantations will not be authorised in Portugal unless — this is the only exception — the transposition of areas which are ecologically poorly located and which are not economically profitable for ordered, ecologically appropriate and, of course, more productive areas. We also want to respond to the problem of the abandonment of the forest — the abandonment of the land that has known owner and the abandonment of the land without even having known owner — which is undoubtedly one of the most serious. And that is why we moved forward with a simplified registration project, to do in 30 months—and I have an idea of what this ambition that we put on our shoulders—what the country expects to do decades ago, which is the registration. Of course, it will be a simplified register, but this is a sine canon condition for it to be possible to bring into the planning and economic exploitation of the forest thousands and thousands of hectares that are today to the most complete abandonment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is a question on which, in the context of the ongoing negotiation, the Government is open — I repeat — to all suggestions. Suggestions have been presented by the Left Block that, we think, are capable of being welcomed, that go a little further, in the sense of being able to exist, for example, a more coercive attitude towards those who, in the ordered areas and perimeters that are being managed and ordered, insist on maintaining this heritage to abandon. In addition to the simplified registration, there is still the creation of the land bank, which is something we want to complete with the land exchange that had already come from the previous government, but which is completely different. The land bank is not a meeting point between the offer and the search for those who want to buy or rent land, it is, rather, an instrument where we intend to place the entire heritage of the already existing state and also the estate without known owner, which, at the end of 30 months, will finally be possible to identify. This is because, once the cadastral process has been completed, by the exclusion of parties, we will know, at the level of parish and of each municipality, what is the property without owner. It shall be integrated into the land bank and the State shall take over its administrative possession. It does not take over its property, because the State will grant the possibility of owners — if they do — of course can take over the full ownership of this property during the next 15 years. at the end of 15 years, the State may decide whether or not to exercise Uscapion. We believe that the use of this heritage will also provide an answer to another structural problem in our forest, which is the small part that is state heritage. We all know that, at European level and probably at global level, Portugal must be from countries where the highest percentage of forest is private, where the State has the least chance of intervention. With this instrument, over 15 years, I am sure that the state's heritage will increase significantly. The cleaning of the forest is another fundamental problem and, for that reason, we propose, as I have already said, order and manage, because this is the best way to clean up, but also to create biomass plants — the diploma is also published — in order to make forest waste profitable. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, desertification, as I said at the beginning of my speech, especially human desertification, does not, of course, solve itself only with a growing agriculture or with a well-managed, well-ordered forest, much more is needed. There must be a set of horizontal interventions, which relate to all government ministries. The Ministry of Agriculture is trying to provide an answer — which is certainly insufficient — by means of support for diversification of economic activity, support for the creation of enterprises which are not necessarily in the agricultural sector, support for the maintenance of rural populations, such as agri-environmental measures or support for disadvantaged areas. But it is necessary to go further and, because it is necessary to go further, the Government has advanced with the Mission Unit for the Valorization of the Interior, which, under a guardianship in the particular case of the Deputy Minister—who is present and who will also participate in this debate— intends to gather, enhance and articulate the interventions of all government areas concentrated in a common objective, which is, in the first phase, to prevent the abandonment of rural areas and, obviously, to reverse this cycle. That's what moves us, and it's this goal that, I'm sure, all of you. Members of all parliamentary committees are also committed and available to make contributions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u5	As before, the time spent in the opening intervention will be discounted in the time allocated to the stage of debate itself. Let us then start the debate phase. I'm aware that four Mrs have signed up. Members to request clarification from Mrs Heloísa Apolónia and that she will answer together. Mr Pedro Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to greet the Greens and Mrs Heloísa Apolónia for bringing us this debate, which took time and which is increasingly necessary. On the issues of the forest, of the interior, of the rural world, I wanted to say that we have three main problems, among many others, that cannot be separated and that I am going to list: firstly, the impoverishment to which the interior has been voted in recent decades, and this is objective; secondly, the reality of the founding structure of our interior and our rural world, which also needs to be addressed; and thirdly, the repeated absence of the state, of the public powers in relation to the forest and the interior, leaving room for the main actors of the forest to become the interests of the celluloses and the woodlanders. These three aspects are essential. Regarding the impoverishment of the interior and the design of Portugal 2020, it is necessary to call here the responsibility of former Minister Poiares Maduro, who said that not having a territorial logic in the distribution of funds and having a business logic would be the great innovation for the distribution of those funds. For it is necessary to know that this is precisely where the network of enterprises is weaker, which is inside, which will determine that there is more movement of funds. That is a political responsibility that needs to be resolved, which needs to be addressed. The same applies not only to austerity policies, policies that have led to the reduction of wages and pensions — which affect, firstly, the inhabitants of the interior and the rural world — but also to the closure of public services, the absence of mobility responses, the emigration of younger people and those with the most qualifications. This is the reality of the impoverishment of the rural world and of our inner world. On the structure of land ownership, we must say that we have a chaotic situation in our country. There are about 12 to 13 million forest plots without any strategic management policy. Public intervention is needed to resolve this issue, it must be determined that there will be collective management, aggregate management of these plots, which is the only way to grant scale, to give profitability to owners and, even, to have greater negotiating power with the celluloses, with the woodworkers and not to allow them to continue to apply miserable prices for wood in our country. With regard to the absence of State intervention in forest planning, it should be noted that what is happening at this time in relation to fires, as well as the lack of profitability in our forest, also has to do with the lack of forest management. This logic of the kingdom of « eucalyptolândia», a country and a forest completely rendered to the eucalyptus, is not the logic of the greater profitability of the forest. Who says that is false! The logic must be that of the forest mosaic, through a public intervention in order to create and implement a new forest, opening steels and making new plantations of native and leafy species, and the creation of a primary prevention network. This is what will revitalize the interior, which will revitalize our forest and create new jobs in the interior, in the rural world and in our forest. This is part of the exit to the problem of impoverishment, which we also live within the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u7	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude. It's been over time in 4 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u8	I shall now conclude, Mr President. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, considers it essential or not, in addition to all the policies that have to produce structural changes in the next 10 years, 20 years in the forest, which take immediate action not only in relation to the revocation of the RJAAR, the so-called « law of the liberalisation of the eucalyptus », but also in order to quickly reach the 500 teams of forest slagers, to deal with the situation that we are currently living in the forest. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u9	To request clarification, Mr. José Carlos Barros has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u10	Mr President, I begin by congratulating Mrs Heloísa Apollonia and by greeting The Greens for bringing this issue to debate. Mrs Deputie, what happened to me, having just heard her speech, was how much these matters may seem consensual, because, and of course, most people react favorably to the ideas of social and territorial cohesion, of combating the desertification of the interior, of the need for forest reforms that end the fires, which create wealth and fix populations in the rural world. But this is also one of the dangers because the unwinding, which usually comes from consensus, ends up leading to the surface, to the common place and to simplification in matters which should, above all, call for the ability to make reforms that are indeed structural. However, you just need to see what measures the current Government, which is also yours, has done in this area, and more specifically against the desertification of the rural world, to which both the Member and the Minister for Agriculture referred in their initial interventions. First, it proclaims itself in the Government Programme : promoting « rejuvenation of the social fabric of rural areas ». After the proclamation, it is realized. How do you do it? A Mission Unit is created for the Valorization of the Interior, on the direct dependence of the Prime Minister, and this is done due publicity to the Country. This structure, in turn, implements the National Programme for Territorial Cohesion which will thus promote the development of the interior territories, the programme, in fact, to which Mr Agriculture referred in his initial intervention as a great design of this Government. Okay, here's the understanding that this government and this majority have of what is a reform. It is only a pity that the Portuguese from the interior, from the low-density territories, have not yet noticed it! However, according to the recent assessment made by the Government last month, more than 70 % of the 164 measures in this programme are already being implemented or under way. That is to say, there is no longer much left for Minister Eduardo Cabrita to announce to the country that reform of the interior, of the territories of low density, is already so, and by this way, completed. Why is it that until now, in the interior, in the entire border area, in the whole area of low density, no one has yet noticed the reform? Oh, my God! Is it because of the fact that measure 5.9 of the Programme "Strengthening of military contingents in the territories of the interior" has not yet been initiated, in accordance with the assessment made in the meantime? But measure 5.10 of this Programme, which presents the commitment to « prioritise the conduct of military exercises in the interior, (...) », is already 50 % enforcement rate. Or is it because of measure 1.10, which is « Supporting the realization of Summer Universities in the interior(...) », not yet started? Well, but take indoor shows produced by the Teatro D. Maria II, which is contained in measure 3.23, is already in progress since the 2nd. Last year's semester! In view of this, the honourable Member is here to talk about the need for policies against the desertification of the interior. If that is the case, then you will share the view of the honourable Member with regard to the understanding that the Government has of doing reforms, i.e. to realize what it does, to implement programmes that are 'teaching boys', as clearly this one of territorial cohesion, to let go of the political calculation of short-term agreements, to leave to the future what would be essential to reform today and, above all, not to risk anything that is truly structural? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u11	To request clarification, Mr. Santinho Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u12	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I welcome the Greens Ecological Party for the opportunity to schedule this debate. The issues of the rural world and the depopulation of the interior are today a national emergency whose catastrophic effects are still felt in Pedrogão, Gois and Castanheira. Fires in the rural world mean lack of population, immigration and aging. in these days of reflection, but also of demagogy, opportunism, lack of shame, lack of respect for the tragedy, I reviewed a memory of 50 years and saw the differences that time has accentuated. There were lands and houses in the midst of cultivated lands; today there are villages surrounded by bushes and woods. There were shepherds and cattle and the use of geese, toxes and urze for domestic use and bed of sheep and goats. There were people. Today, all this is fuel for fires. Community membership, instead of reviving hope with support for the development of the rural world, paid to take away everything, fruit trees, olive trees and vineyards. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u13	I remember the governments of Cavaco Silva. Fewer people, more uncultuated lands, more fuel available to burn in summer. Together with all this, the mini-fundión, which characterizes our property and, many of it, without known owner, the lack of registration, the negligent management of the forest, the lack of cleaning and the failure to comply with existing legislation, the insufficient prevention—this is the explosive mixture that has produced results that we all know. There is an urgent need for a revolution in the rural world and in the management of our forest. A change just wasn't enough. from there ask: what is still needed to study in order to act? How many more committees will be needed to legislate thoroughly? Hurry up? Oh, my God! Can't you see that the deep country can't waste more time and that we can't fail again? Oh, my God! Unfortunately, there are many potential Pedrogons ready to explode. To end the closure of services in low-density territories is the first impulse of any reform or restructuring. My revolt, still days ago, at the closure of the General Deposit Box in Almeida, had precisely that reach. The evil done to the economy of that village has no justification. I therefore leave a few questions. What does the Greens Ecological Party think of active forest-renewal policies to support return to land? Do you agree or not with the reintroduction of the shepherdhouse, particularly of goats, in order to manage the bushes in primary networks and other totally uncultivated lands today? How can we fight the real curse of having thousands of hectares without known owners and people wanting land to work and not find it? The government's legislative measures on the forest, on the register and on the land bank are on the right track. It is necessary to do what has not yet been done. The Mission Unit for the Valuation of the Interior is doing just that: valuing and creating self-esteem in these territories, which was something that we had long been furnished. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u14	To ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Patrícia Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u15	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, yesterday in this Chamber, we saw another political washing operation carried out by the Left Block, the CFP and the Greens which has now been continued. [[Protests from PCP MP Carla Cruz.]] in a desperate attempt to whiten out the enormous operational discoordination between the real causes of the Pedrógão Grande tragedy, the left parties turned to the forest and thus gave the country the true value that they give to the Portuguese forest. [[PCP protests.]] The Greens, which is an environmentalist party, take advantage of the lack of importance the PS places on the forest sector to impose its ideology as a currency of exchange so that management is possible, thus prohibiting the planting of eucalyptus, but does so only because, without any technical or scientific basis. It is proof of this, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, that we have made sense of the absence of the Greens Ecological Party at the meetings of the Working Group on Forest Reform, where an initiative which is precisely under discussion is the result of your request with the Government, which is the prohibition of eucalyptus planting. We have not seen The Greens at these meetings and it is not strange. Yesterday, we heard non-governmental environmental organizations, such as GEOTA (Territorial and Environmental Planning Study Group), Quercus (National Nature Conservation Association) and LPN (Liga for the Protection of Nature) — just a few, but there were more organizations — who confirmed what the CDS already knew, that is, the problem is not in the eucalyptus. The problem is not in any particular species, the problem is in management or, more precisely, in the lack of it. In fact, Mrs Deputies, it is better not to be present so as not to hear and thus not to be without arguments. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u16	Madam Member, at those meetings I would also have heard other things, such as the fact that RJAAR is not the law of eucalyptization. I would have heard this even from the President of the ICNF (Instituto de Conservação da Nature et des Forestas) — see! — a public administration body that says that this is a brick, in which it is not seen, but the Minister, by the way, does so. The RJAAR — which has been taken over and confirmed by all stakeholders — is only a tool for obtaining statistical information. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. Ministers, what we want, and that is what we always wanted, is transparency and RJAAR is a transparency tool that allows us to know exactly how many hectares exist, which species and where they are planted. It is good to say, because you do not say what you are not interested in, that the RJAAR does not include areas that are financed by Community funds. Therefore, all areas that are planted with other native species with the help of Community funds are not reflected in the RJAAR. It might be important for the government to compile this. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I invite the Greens Ecological Party to join us in the discussion taking place in the Working Group on Forest Reform to hear. Madam Member, do you really believe, or do you not understand or do you want to realize that the abandonment of the forest is not an end in itself but the result of the lack of financial resources, the profitability of the small owners? [[Protests of PCP Members.]] Yes, yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the result of the lack of profitability that the forest gives them. And so it is not prohibiting one species that you will be able to force people to plant another. [[PCP protests.]] I ask you, Madam Member, if you believe that your ideologies, put in front of the interests of the country, will come true and allow us to have a less desertificational rural world, which is what you advocate. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u17	In reply, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u18	Mr President, I will inevitably have to start with the answer to Mrs Patrícia Fonseca from the CDS, to tell you that the low blows sometimes go wrong, and I will tell you why.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u19	Low and very low!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u20	Yesterday, at the meeting of the Working Group, as the honourable Member will probably have heard, the absence of the Greens was justified. We were preparing this debate. But fortunately, I had the television on and at the same time was listening to a lot of what happened at that meeting of the working group, in addition to being an advisor to the Greens at the meeting, who accompanied her from the beginning to the end.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u21	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u22	Hit him down, Mrs. Member, but he's expensive!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u23	All right! [[CSD-PP MP Protests Patrícia Fonseca.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u24	You know why? Because I heard with these ears the representative of the Nature Watch Association saying that sometimes great scientific studies are not needed because the common sense of those on the ground realizes exactly what the difference is between some species and that if in their own fireplace a trunk of eucalyptus or a trunk of other species clearly perceived how the combustion of this wood is clearly different. [[There he is!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u25	And the honourable Member also heard...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u26	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u27	And the honourable Member also heard representatives of the environmental associations say that the goal is not to eliminate the eucalyptus of the planet, as I said, but that the monoculture of this kind of rapid growth is an absolute mistake, because it is a material that promotes the dimension of forest fires that we have in our forest. [[All right!]] [[CSD-PP MP Protests Patrícia Fonseca.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u28	The honourable Member is that she wants to blind, blind and not act in relation to what is fundamental. And I'm not surprised, because the deputy sitting next to you was, then, minister and she promoted the one who became known as the law of the eucalyptus, who came to liberalize the eucalyptus plantation. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]] So, Mrs. Member, come here to say that the abandonment of the rural world resulted from the lack of financial resources...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u29	The gentlemen are done with them!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u30	Mrs. Deputy, it's a lot of can, I'm sorry for the expression I have to use. This abandonment resulted from completely wrong policies of your ideology, Mrs. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]] You know why? Because he wanted to serve the large economic groups permanently and failed to respond to the interests of the small owners. [[That's true! It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u31	I am going to tell you one thing: when the logic of agroforestry policy also turns to the objective of creating income for small producers and not to serve permanently the interests of the large owners and the big celluloses, you will see that the results are different.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u32	Make a serious accusation there!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u33	So, Mrs. Member, if you want to talk about ideology, we can talk about ideology, which is a matter that separates us very well.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u34	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u35	On the other hand, I would like to reply to the other Members. Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to hear the PS Member make a criticism of what it was inevitable today to recognize, that the European Union has greatly contributed, through its Community funds and policy guidelines, to this abandonment of the rural world and to the liquidation of agricultural activity in our country. And that, indeed, is dear to us today, Mr President, because agricultural activity, pasture, served as buffer zones, as zones of intermittent forest, in addition to involving the presence of people in the rural world, in their activity, and this greatly benefited the surveillance and also the non-expansion, as is the case today, of forest fires. I think it is right to recognize this, but it is right to recognize it so that we can make a policy reversal, Mr President, and that is what is fundamental. We live in a European Union that does not look at the specific interests of the territories and people, and that is an issue that, in our perspective, has to change. Mr José Carlos Barros, Member of the PSD, for the time being, would like to make a rectification: care when he says "this government is also yours". It's not, sir! [[Yeah, yeah! Yeah, yeah!]] [[Yeah, yeah! Yeah, yeah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u36	He's wrong! [[Yeah, yeah! Yeah, yeah!]] [[Yeah, yeah! Yeah, yeah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u37	You know the new parliamentary composition resulting from the last elections, but don't think that this government isn't mine or ours. [[Yeah, yeah! Yeah, yeah!]] [[Yeah, yeah! Yeah, yeah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u38	Yeah, yeah, it's fucked!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u39	...that The Greens cease to act in relation to what is fundamental in the country. I also use it to respond to Mr Pedro Soares of the Left Block. He asked the Greens if they do not consider it important to review the RJAAR (Legal regime applicable to logging and re-arboring actions) and the answer is, of course, yes! So, if we were the Greens, who insisted with the PS and the Government that this revision of the RJAAR should be done, it is clear that, for us, this is fundamental, it has also been the set of proposals that The Greens have presented in this House regarding the creation of greater dynamics in the rural world, such as tax incentives for companies that settle and promote their activity within the country, the promotion, revitalization and rehabilitation of railway lines, such as the East line, which the PSD Government and the CDS had closed.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u40	You've already opened the line! Is that what you're talking about? Are you going to open it?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u41	But do you want to go there in September on a train ride?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u42	All this is essential for this dynamic of the rural world to be promoted. And what I said about the rostrum is important for the ladies. Members bear in mind: in the joint position we have also put there, we have had this concern, that there can be no continuity in the closure of the services of proximity, especially within the country, because, every time a public service is closed, it is the potential of the dynamics of the interior and the rural world that withdraws, and that is a political error, it is a costly, very expensive error. On the other hand, we believe it is essential to invest in human resources. We have made the proposal for the increase of 50 nature watchers, we have proposals for the re-enhancing of the forest body and the increase of forest slag teams. Is it money? Cost! But it is much more difficult to do what has been done in the erratic policies that have been promoted, and we know this in the fight we have done to forest fires. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President José de Matos Correia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u43	We now turn to questions to the Minister for Agriculture. The Minister has six questions and the Government has already informed the Bureau that it will answer three to three. You have the floor, to ask for clarifications, Mr. Carlos Matias, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in recent decades, rural space has been subject to profound transformations of occupation and soil organization with the prevalence of continuous monospecies settlements, consisting essentially of eucaliptes and brave pine trees, very flammable. The fire surges that have been on fire for decades, and not only now, have devastated the country, have led to a focused response in the direct fight against fires to the detriment of forest prevention, planning and management. This option has not yet been reversed but is already put in crisis by the reality that the dramatic example of Pedrogon Grande, unfortunately, shows us. Our climate and the notorious climate changes are also factors to be taken into account. In addition, the approval of the law of liberalization of eucalyptus plantation, headed by former director Assumption Cristals and accompanied by PSD, aggravated the risk of fire in the forest. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] And it's right here, ladies and gentlemen. Members, to put an end to a mistification that systematically comes from your side: the preamble of this decree, which you have written, explicitly assumes that it would equal the species of rapid growth and the species of slower growth — this is written in the preamble, is the intention that you have achieved and that it is written black in white. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u45	Don't come here with more lies and more bullshit talk. [[Congratulations from BE.]] On the other hand, the PDR 2020 ( Rural Development Programme 2014 - 2020 ), designed by the previous majority PSD / CDS, guided the European funds for large estate and for agribusiness in a strictly productive view.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u46	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u47	Small family farming has been neglected, local grassroots initiatives have been minimized, endogenous resources betting and population involvement have been reduced. Yesterday a leader of the In Loco Association showed us the fact that between the Leader Approach of the First Community Support Framework and the current PDR 2020, local base initiatives went from 34 to three. From 34 to three!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u48	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u49	However, there is a need for strong support for small family farming; it is necessary to redesign the 2020 RDP in order to resume robust support for local grassroots initiatives based on endogenous resources such as forest, initiatives involving populations and rural area authorities. This new approach must now be introduced into the new CAP (common agricultural policy) which is being discussed. Minister, what will be done in this regard? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u50	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Luís Pedro Pimentel.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The forest is certainly a much greater thing than all generations have a duty to care for and preserve, but it is also an activity that generates income, wealth and employment. We cannot discuss the forest without setting it up in the territory and we cannot talk about the rural world without mentioning the economic activities that exist in it. It is therefore with some perplexity that in recent days we have been attending a debate around the forest and the rural world totally out of reality and far from the needs of the forest itself. Unfortunately, the tragic events accelerated a discussion on the reform of the Portuguese forest, which deserved much more weight and, above all, good sense. This discussion was based on wrong premises imposed by the Greens Ecological Party and will be approved with radical impositions of the Left Block. Unfortunately, what the country is watching, in the last few hours, is to the novel BE / Government, Government / BE. We have also heard the CCP say through the CNA (National Confederation of Agriculture) that the measures of forest reform are 'inadequate and impeding'. In the meantime there is a missed opportunity to seek more comprehensive solutions, which make forest areas more profitable and more competitive.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u52	And what are your proposals?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u53	The knowledge and science that has been produced over the years by Portuguese universities is ignored, and here I stress the very important role that the University of Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro and the ISA ( Superior Institute of Agronomy ) have given in this sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u54	What are your proposals?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u55	On the other hand, it is paradoxical that the State invests every year in the formation of higher technical frameworks of forestry and in the forest area and then despises this knowledge and decrees the future of the forest by political taxes, also ignoring the notices of associations and confederations of the forest sector. Then we will not be surprised if the rules laid down in the reform of the forest are not met. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the success of a law depends on its applicability and its adaptation to reality, even more in the case of the forest, which is mostly private and consisting of micro plots. So, Minister, would you like to inform us that studies have been carried out by the Ministry of Agriculture or which have been consulted to support the decision to transfer eucalyptus areas between inland and coastal regions? What social and territorial impacts will be expected in this regard? It is important for us to answer these questions because, when we insist on having answers to them, what we see is that the government spends money on studies to know the impact of forest fires on the popularity of the government itself, but it cannot have money, perhaps, to do serious studies to give us answers, to pay firefighters and often to pay what they have done a lot to those who have done in this country in the fight against fires. We in the PSD understand that if forest activity generates income will be attractive and, being attractive, will reduce the risk of abandonment to which many of our territories are unfortunately subject today. The Portuguese forest problems are serious and very complex. It cannot be expected that they will be solved with simple solutions and in a hurry and, unfortunately, the solutions that are presented to us are too basic. the problems of lack of management, lack of ordering, low profitability, the current government responds with the blocking of new areas of eucalyptus. That's bad! Unfortunately, no solutions for planning or management are presented to promote the joint management of forest parcels, making them more profitable and thus less conducive to abandonment. In fact, what is strange to us is that, throughout the forest reform, the FIFs have been sided with forest management entities.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u56	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u57	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr Minister, we would like to know what the Government's willingness to extend the tax benefits to producers grouped in the ZIFs is, certainly finding the legal framework for this. Finally, Minister, we would also like to know and the government is available to find, outside of forest reform and far from the current media pressure, solutions that increase the income of forest owners. Mr Minister, that is the only way we will be able to combat the abandonment of rural areas and the desertification of our territory. The forest is worth that effort. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u58	The last question in this first round is from Mr Ramos, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Minister for Agriculture, today we have learned what we have already learned, i.e. to try containment measures, to try forest planning, to try to limit the species that cause damage, and much, to the Portuguese population is an ideological measure. But leave the celluloses free to act and make their way, there, there is no ideology anymore. That's what the CDS and PSD here introduce us. [[PCP applause.]] Mr Minister, in view of this situation which is exceptional in human victims but which, unfortunately, is not exceptional in fires, because they occur frequently, something really new is needed. Is the government available to present this "real new"? Much has already been proposed on forests and fires and much is legislated on this matter. Therefore, Minister, it is necessary to know whether the government is available to do what has not yet been done. And what has not been done in the field of forest and forest policy is the provision of resources that have been lacking in the forest, in particular the resources necessary for the planning and human resources that have been withdrawn from agriculture over the years. There has been a lack of human and financial resources to forest policy and there is a need to know whether there is availability to allocate them. In particular, it is necessary to know whether the Government is available, for example, in the measures for the replacement of the productive potential, which have already been announced by the Minister, to strengthen the funds in the RDP for these support and to increase the participations, which may reach 100 %. It is necessary to know whether the Government is available to comply immediately with the State budget, in particular with regard to the hiring of the 50 supervisors of the nature which is there. With regard to the fuel management bands, it is necessary to know whether there is availability to move forward immediately, and with regard to forest slags, to finish, Mr Minister announced the creation of 20 new teams but the CFP believes that we should create 70 teams this year, that is, we should create even more 50, in order to reach the target of 500 teams within three years. Minister, is there any availability for this? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u60	You have the floor to answer, Mr Minister for Agriculture.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the questions put and I will try to answer objectively and quickly. Mr Matias, with regard to small family farming, as you certainly know, the Government's programme has given priority to the positive discrimination of small farming. in this sense, we have already implemented what we could do within the framework of the national margin of manoeuvre with regard to the amendment of Community programmes. This is how we increased support for small family farming by 20 % under the first pillar of the CAP; this is how we increased support for the first investment of small farmers under the second pillar of the CAP; in this sense, we increased the first 5 ha of all farms also financed by the first pillar of the CAP; and it was to generate savings and promote the redistribution that we set a maximum limit of 300 000 ha for which farmers can receive, which, as you know, is a decision that can only be taken at the level of each Member State. The European Union has so far not had the courage to standardise so that no farmer can receive unlimited money, as it is now. In Portugal it is no longer so, there is a maximum ceiling, but we want to go further. And because we want to go further, the government decided, last week, to set up an inter-ministerial group, involving eight ministers, who, by the end of September, will present a working paper, and then to be translated into a legal degree to consecrate the status of small family farming, so that we can shape the whole system of rights, incentives, support that positively discriminate this segment of agriculture, without which the rural world will tend to become increasingly desertification. Mr Luís Pedro Pimentel, the honourable Member has asked us not to take hasty decisions on the reform of the forest. Mr Deputy, on 15 August 2016, the Government, Prime Minister, decided to set up a group of nine ministers, including myself, to present a first draft by the end of October on what should be the first steps towards forest reform. Eight ministers worked all summer, probably while the honourable Member was on vacation, and precisely because it is a right to assist all Portuguese workers. [[PSD protests.]] During these three months, this work was prepared and October 27th... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u62	Mr. Minister, excuse me. Mrs. Members, create conditions for the Minister to continue his intervention. Please continue, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u63	I don't think having a holiday is an offense, I just said that there were government members who abstained from them to work in the forest last year. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] On October 27th...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u64	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, once again I would like to ask you to continue your intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u65	On 27 October 2016, there was an extraordinary Council of Ministers in Louisiana where 12 diplomas were generally approved. on that date the decision was taken to put the 12 diplomas in public discussion, before the whole society, for three months, to collect contributions. Mr President, do you know what the only contribution I have received from the PSD in those three months? It was an e-mail from a Member to ask whether the public session I promoted in Coimbra took place on the table or not. Having told you that it was not expected that there would be a place at the table for the Members, that Member did not appear.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u66	That's an inversion!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u67	Therefore, the only contribution, during three months of discussion, was a protocol problem and no proposal was presented in that period.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u68	Find the solutions!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u69	On 15 December the first diploma was published in the Journal of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u70	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u71	On 19 January, the second diploma was published in the Diário da República. On 21 March 2017, a second extraordinary Council of Ministers was held to definitively approve the 10 missing diplomas. of these 10 diplomas, five were sent for the promulgation of Mr. President of the Republic, who immediately promulgated them,... [[Protests from PSD Members.]] ... and were published in the Journal of the Republic on 12 June. The remaining five have been sent to the Assembly of the Republic, as it is Parliament's own and reserved competence.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u72	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u73	So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we went 10 months ago, I repeat, 10 months, almost 11 months, working hard to present solutions for the country that avoid... [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, since we are in a parliamentary debate, I would like to ask: in these 10 months, what did the PSD bench do to contribute to the resolution of this great problem? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] The honourable Member has also asked the Government... [[Protests by PSD Deputies Duarte Filipe Marques and Luís Pedro Pimentel.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u74	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, for the third time, do you not mind creating conditions for the Minister to continue? Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u75	The honourable Member has also asked the Government to study. You want more studies! He wants to study! But I've heard PSD Members say it was all studied!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u76	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u77	Mr. Deputies, it is not from studies that the country needs. The country needs action, determination. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] That is what we are doing, Mr President, and once again the caller, Mr: this is our country, we have an opportunity here to establish a regime pact around an essential issue and we have just witnessed an indelibly disastrous tragedy. Is this not enough argument for us, instead of the political debate, to contribute to solutions? Oh, my God! Mr President, I would like to ask you, your bench and others, please make contributions so that this tragedy will never happen again in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD laughter and protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u78	He's turning his kiss around!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u79	Mr President, on tax benefits, there is indeed a diploma in forest reform that introduces a very generous package of tax benefits for those who are available to manage the forest. The honourable Member has just said that I would like to see this regime extended to other entities. Mr. Luís Pedro Pimentel, he made this proposal and I almost say, in advance, that I would like to appreciate it and, if possible, implement it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u80	Mr. Minister, I'm going to have to ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u81	Mr President, I just wanted to answer Mr João Ramos, I apologize. You can discount this time in which it is intended for final intervention. I would like to tell Mr Ramos that, of course, the government is available to propose something new. That's exactly what we're doing. We are available to strengthen the financial resources, of course those that are possible. But the financial resources are discussed in the budget framework, and then you will also have your own responsibility to help us find those means. With regard to the strengthening of the RDP for emergency measures, of course, Mr President, this is the extent to which it will always have the necessary resources, whatever they may be. I must say that, at the moment, they are already invented, i.e. the Ministry of Agriculture has already quantified all the damage in the Pedrogão region and adjacent municipalities.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u82	Mr. Minister, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u83	These losses amount to about EUR 20 million and we will certainly have financial capacity to respond to them, as well as to strengthen the team of divers. This year we will create 20 teams, already in July, and we will have 44 other teams completed and re-equipped by the end of this year. Since there are competitions that take several months, this year will not be possible to go further, but that is the goal. I remember that I was myself who, many years ago, set the goal of creating 500 teams in the framework of a legislature. We shall certainly achieve this objective, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u84	We then move on to the second round of questions. I will give the floor to Mr. José Luís Ferreira, to whom I would like to apologize, since the Greens Ecological Party, as an inter-parliamentary party, should have asked Mr. Minister the first question. I take responsibility for not allowing it, and I apologize for that.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u85	Mr. President, you have no problem. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister for Agriculture, I don't know if you've been paying attention to the news of the last few days, but we've heard interesting things about the forest. We heard the PSD say that much of the territory does not have eucalyptus, that most of the Portuguese forest is not eucalyptus and, most unusual, we heard the PSD say that the eucalyptus is the least burning and where the fire is extinguished more easily. In view of what we have heard, it seems to us that the mystery of the reasons why the PSD/CDS government has led to complete liberalisation of the eucalyptus in our country is thus being unraveled. According to the reading of the PSD, and certainly also of the CDS, there were few eucalyptuses in our forest and how, by the way, for the PSD, the eucalyptus is the least burning and where the fire is extinguished more easily, the previous government has advanced with its liberalisation. It's true! It was simply a mistake to say that the liberalisation of the eucalyptus represented a measure to prevent forest fires. Only this was missing so we can say: if the eucalyptus does not burn, there are people who burn each time they talk about fires and forests.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u86	What a taste! How is that possible? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u87	But we do a different reading from the PSD and CDS not only about the amount of eucalyptus in our forest, which has become, in fact, the species that occupies most area in our country, but also about the role that this species represents in the progression and dimension that the fires have taken. It was also because of this fact that, in the joint position established by the Greens Ecological Party with the Socialist Party, the need to stop the expansion of the area of the eucalyptus, as well as the increase in the areas of mountaineering and mountaineering, was expressed. This purpose begins with the repeal of the law approved by the Government of PSD/CDS which liberalized the planting of the eucalyptus and by creating a new legal regime for treery and reforestation. on our part, Mr Minister, I would like to reaffirm that, we are still committed to seeking solutions to curb the expansion of the eucalyptus, which is, in our view, an imperative, especially after the PSD/CDS Government has fully liberalized this species. In this regard, I would like to record the progress that we have made in trying to put a brake on the expansion of the eucalyptus area and also the opening of the Government to revisit matters in which there is still no harmony, particularly with regard to the authorisation for new eucalyptus plantations through the permutation. So we will now expect that there will be no lack of determination or courage for the government to break up with policies that are based on a mere short-term economic vision, and that only some restricted economic sectors benefit, where, of course, cells prevail. It is true that in this debate it is important to look to the future, but look to the future with the present past, because the problems of our forest, and even the dimension that the fires eventually acquire, are certainly not shut off from the structural problems and political options that over time have been promoted by several governments. And I am not only referring to the liberalisation of the eucalyptus, but also to the notorious public investment in fire prevention and forest in general. On the other hand, it is recalled that the former Government cut 200 million national euros in the PRODER ( Rural Development Programme), which certainly aggravated the problems. I am also referring to the deresponsibility of the State in the management of the forest, in the forestry planning, in the fight against desertification and in the abandonment of the rural world, and also to the extinction of the body of forest guards. Now, it is exactly about the forest guards that involves my request for clarification, Mr Minister, basically to know what evaluation makes the government of extinction of the forest guards body, which is not now, we know, but I would like to know what evaluation the government makes and whether it is equal to have the body of forest guards reborn. Even to conclude, Minister, we would also like to know at what stage the hiring of the 50 nature monitors, which, as you know, was a commitment that the Government made to the Greens Ecological Party last year and in the negotiation of the State budget for this year. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u88	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Patrícia Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u89	Mr President, Minister, we were informed yesterday by the social communication that the Government made an agreement with the Left Block for the compulsive lease of forest land. We have therefore become aware that the PS government has joined the Left Block, which is called a defense party in the rural world but which, in fact, forgets the 400 000 small forest owners when it comes to defending their ideology. We do not know the terms of the agreement, Minister, but we do know the proposal of the Left Block. The proposal of the Left Block is part of a problem, which is rural abandonment, makes the diagnosis, which means that this abandonment is a consequence of changing the models of society, fragmentation of property and the consequent lack of profitability it has, and presents us with the solution: we will penalise the owner, who has little to be able to reinvest in his forest, aggravating taxes, in this particular case the IMI (municipal taxes on buildings). Since the owner will no longer be able to clear the land, even less will be able to pay this increase of cost. So we say that you are an absentee owner — this in the perspective of the Left Block — and that therefore you have to rent your land compulsively to the State. Then this land is placed on the bench of land. I ask you, Minister, if you do not understand that this is no more than a confiscation of private property to achieve such a coveted public forest.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u90	They're ghosts! Ghosts! [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u91	It is that this attempt by the Left Block is the biggest attack on private property since the time of agrarian reform, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u92	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u93	I therefore ask you, Minister, since we do not know the terms of the agreement, what the Government really wants to do about private property. I also ask, Mr Minister, whether the Government is finally available to approve the proposal of the CDS, which has been submitted here several times, on the forest management account, which comes, in our view, to enable small owners to obtain more income from their forest, because they will have a chance to deduct their tax costs. It is not worth thinking that those who are very small, who have no organised accounting, will be associated with a forest management society, a forest management unit. So even if it was differentiated, in our perspective, it is necessary to create a way to support those owners who are small and need support in order to be able to invest in their forest. For the CDS, the solution cannot be penalized, the solution goes along the path that was followed, when we were in government, by positive incentives such as tax benefits such as tax exemptions, IMI, IMT (municipal tax on onerous transfer of real estate ), seal tax, such as the change made in the tax reform of the IRS (tax on income of natural persons) and the IRC (tax on income of collective persons) and the promotion of grouped management, such as the ZIF. We also agree with the model, whatever it is and are available to discuss it, from forest management units, which promote the aggregate, profitable and scaled management of the forest. We believe that only with a decent income will the owners be able to invest in a well managed forest, which then creates jobs and wealth, and that, in our perspective, will occupy the territory. Mr Soares, the Left Bloc spoke of what the results are and, indeed, I cannot help but show strangeness, because the Government is saying that this is a reform for one or two decades, is a regime pact, which does not produce results in a month or two, nor in a year, nor in two years, but then we have, for example, the Left Bloc, or even the Minister himself, who intends to revoke many of the things that the previous government has done because it says they have no effect. I am pleased and delighted to hear Mr Minister say today that many of the measures taken by the previous Government will indeed be taken by the Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u94	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u95	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. I am grateful and pleased that this is the first time, at this whole time of discussion of the reform of the forest package, that we have heard the Minister say this. We are pleased that you are in fact recognizing the good work done by the previous Government with regard to Portuguese forest and Portuguese agriculture. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u96	For the last request for clarification, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u97	Mr President, Minister for Agriculture, in addition to the changes made to the landscape after the industrial revolution, the introduction of a chemical or mechanical model by the New State is a definitive blow. The strume is replaced by chemical fertilizers and the broths made from natural products are replaced by pesticides and herbicides; the precindability of extensive cattle in agriculture, pastoral care has been prepared. The filling of the gaps of the traditional agro-silvo-pastorial mosaic was replaced by monospecific forest settlements of pine and eucalyptus, creating conditions for the current situation: increased frequency of fires and the burned area. It adds to this phenomenon a visible problem in the way the State looks at all this, a political option of the governments of recent decades by an extractive productive economic model, which finances with public money private sectors that contribute to the uniformization and continuity of the fuel forest stain and to the depopulation of the rural world. We are talking in particular about support for the disorderly planting of eucalyptus and pineapple and inadequate funding for intensive production of beef and milk cattle. What makes sense is that public money is used to pay common benefits that are produced by the economy. This is a central issue, it is a matter of priorities, Minister. The only way to start doing good forest management is to end production support that has no social or ecological value. Mr Minister, who produces milk and who produces meat that will solve their problems in the market and that money, which is now scattered by the State in these sectors, is transferred to the payment of services of the ecosystems and to prevent rural abandonment. It is much more useful to pay the shepherds or the resins that make the management of ecosystem services. The permanent forest fund and the environmental fund are completely captured by the State and do not reach the producers, do not finance the production of biodiversity in the forests or their management. We defend that the functions that forest and pastoral uses perform, in particular those related to the balance of the hydrological cycle, with the reduction of soil erosion, with the protection of habitats and natural species, with the increase of biodiversity, with the development of recreation and tourism, as an interesting complement of those uses, should be valued in public policies. The state must wager in the recreation of the diverse agro-silvo-pastorial mosaic, in the protection of agglomerates by agricultural areas and in the replacement of pine and eucalyptus by species, as far as possible, leafy natives. The pine tree and the eucalyptus should remain in areas of restricted dimensions, so as to constitute a management fund for the owners. Mr Minister, another way to find a viable economic equation for the territory is to value what we have. unlike the example of Tua and the Thamega, where the rural world sinks, we left three good examples, in Portugal, of municipalities that had development strategies based on their own resources, in what is unique: Arouca, which was affixed in nature tourism, particularly in coastal tourism and geological tourism; Castelo de Vide, which supported cultural tourism and also landscape tourism;...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u98	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u99	I will finish, Mr. President. ... and Idanha-a-Nova, who has bet on rural and landscape tourism and sustainable forms of production. Mr Minister for Agriculture, I would like to ask you a question. in recent decades, the state has strongly supported and stimulated, with many millions of euros, sectors that do not add social or ecological value and have done little to stop the abandonment of the rural world and the fixing of people in low-density territories. The question is whether the Government is available to reverse these priorities and invest in the common good. [[Congratulations from BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u100	To respond to this set of requests for clarification, Mr President-in-Office of the Council has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr José Luís Ferreira asked the question of the eucalyptus again. I would like to reiterate that of course the Government will scrupulously comply with the political agreements that have been established with the parties which constitute the parliamentary support of this Government. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Not only because we honour our commitments, but because we are convinced of the goodness of this commitment. We are convinced of the goodness of this commitment because having a eucalyptus forest in Portugal, productive and orderly, is not incompatible with its control and with the fight against its unlimited expansion, which is what is at stake here. We are against the unlimited expansion of the eucalyptus and the unlimited expansion of a disorderly form. It is possible, as I said, in less area producing more raw materials and ensuring that industry continues to guarantee the important jobs it represents and to contribute to Portuguese exports. But I would like to draw the attention of the honourable Member and all the others to the fact that the question of eucalyptus is an article in a diploma of this reform. Sometimes, and I see - specifically on the PSD bench, only one speaks in the eucalyptus - only one speaks in the eucalyptus! Therefore, one only speaks of an article of a bill and forgets that this is a whole architecture that aims to respond to the main problems of the forest. As you pointed out, we have no intention at PDR 2020 to withdraw one cent from the funds allocated to the forest. We have at PDR 2020 — actually registered by the previous government, which was the one who negotiated and concluded the programme — EUR 506 million. We won't take a penny away from the woods. As far as forest guards are concerned, Mr President, this is not a matter of the forest package and it is not my responsibility. But I would like to remind you this: the forest guards were in the Ministry of Agriculture until 2005, 2006 and were around 600. at that time, it was decided to transfer them to the GNR. at this time, there are about 350, but, however, 600 posts were created in the GNR, in the Nature and Environment Protection Service, such SEPNA, and 300 posts were created of forest watchers. Therefore, the number of agents affected by forest control is today greater than it was at that time. Of course, they will always be insufficient and all forms of organisation of these agents should not be excluded from any debate and negotiation. with regard to the 50 nature monitors, the creation of these posts was a government commitment for this year and the corresponding funds were entered in the State budget. As matters of the Ministry of the Environment, I have no doubt here to declare that it will be honourably fulfilled, as it can never cease to be. Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, I thank you very much for your question. First of all, I would like to point out the constructive position I have recognized on the CDS, at least at this final stage of the discussion of this package. It is a constructive position, I welcome, and at the meeting of which the Government is willing to go, on all those points where we can establish agreements. He asked me about a hypothetical agreement that we would have made on our left, with the Left Block, on the compulsive lease. I have already tried to explain, in the initial intervention, that what constitutes this principle of agreement, which will naturally have to be ridiculed in its concrete aspects, aims at: in the ordered areas that will be explored by cooperatives of forest producers, by companies of forest operators, by foundations, by associations, if in an area, in a perimeter... I will give an example: a perimeter with 1000 ha. in this perimeter, there are two producers — one has 5 ha and the other has 9 ha — who refuse to clear the forest, who refuse to apply sorting standards. in this situation, we admit that this heritage can be rendered compulsively. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, if she fears the attack on private property for this reason and has just said that this is possible, then, as you see, this is no problem. Above all, we will apply this rule. with regard to the proposal you have made on the CDS management account, it is of course a matter that we will look into in detail and make every effort to be able to meet the CDS claims, if, as we think, the CDS can also contribute to the overall agreement on this subject. Mr. André Silva, you spoke again about the eucalyptus. About the eucalyptus everything is said. I think it is a matter that we should deal with rationally and the government, with this reform, will do something more important than any other: this issue will no longer be political and will become purely technical. This is because, once the rules of forest planning are shaped in the PDM (municipal master plan) there will be no more political decision-makers deciding on this or that species, since this or that will have to comply with the rules of planning that are drawn up at the level of each municipal director plan. Therefore, the question of the existence of a pretense political will in one or another direction will disappear with the forestry order and with the rules to plant and replant this or that species. With regard to the other issues you have raised on support for agriculture, I would like to say the following: Portugal is in the European Union and, with regard to agriculture, included in the Common Agricultural Policy where support for farmers and livestock production are included. I would like to recall, however, that the last reform, in which I had the honour and pleasure to participate as a European Member—and, modestly, for which I have made some contributions— introduced something very important, which is greening. You have certainly heard about the rules of environmental conditionality which are now mandatory for farmers to receive support.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u102	You want to finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u103	This means that support for agriculture within the framework of the European Union has increasingly a strong environmental component and I hope — and I will, therefore, hit-CL - that in the negotiations that are beginning, have even more. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u104	For an intervention, Mr Nuno Serra, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: What is being discussed today in this debate is one of the most noble themes of society and political discussion. Protecting and valuing our forest is a prime premise for the exploitation of natural resources. A country that does not care for its territory cannot aspire to sustainable growth and prosperity. It is with this position that the PSD presents itself in this discussion: available to defend the best for our forest and our territory. For us, the forest is an essential factor in territorial cohesion, we do not accuse it every day of being the real culprit of forest fires, as others do. For us, it is an economic, environmental and social opportunity that needs to be preserved; for others, it is only a momentary political opportunity. PSD has always been available to discuss forest reform in a serious way, in a constructive way and to find the appropriate convergences. However, it is not possible for political entities to continue to call for a broad consensus between parties when the true actors in the sector, those living in the forest, do not understand or accept this reform.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u107	The important thing was to consensualize the political project with the aspirations and expectations of the sector, which, in this kind of reform, are totally antagonistic. There is no association, forest or industrial producer who has not criticized the documents submitted by the government, but still with well-boiled ears, most insist on continuing with this unfortunate mess. And he insists on continuing because what is at stake is not improving the forest planning, regardless of the species to be planted, what is at stake is not improving the fire fighting device, what is at stake is not creating more economic value for this sector and giving more people employment; what is at stake, uniquely and exclusively, in this reform is prohibiting eucalyptus in Portugal! And why is this, My Lords? Because if there is no support on the side of science and there is no support on the side of the economy or the social area, there is only one reason: it continues to want to govern at all costs, giving in to everything and to all, including ideological prejudices. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u108	Celluloses speaking by the voice of the PSD!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u109	Contrary to what the Minister for Agriculture said, that is, that he did not want to support the discussion on the forest, this government did exactly the opposite, he supported the debate from the moment he gave in to the blackmail of a political party and exchanged the future of the forest by a governance agreement, as has already been said by the Minister. [[PCP protests.]] This is the legacy that the government leaves for the forest. A handful of documents, which he called « reform », with only one aim: to settle debt with The Greens and now with the Left Block. The former Minister of Socialist Agriculture António Serrano said that "the eucalyptus is diabolized, but the devil is in the abandonment" of the territory. This should be the main objective of a forest reform: to create opportunities for this activity to generate sufficient income to increase investment in the sector, avoid abandonment and allow true territorial cohesion. Unfortunately, the obsession of the left parties with the eucalyptus—and they are the left parties that fill their mouths with the eucalyptus every day —,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u110	Look at the cellulose again!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u111	...and the government's option to allow the relocation of current plantations to the coast is so blind that they have not yet realized that this measure will be the greatest asymmetry factor between the interior and the coast that this country has ever had, and you will be guilty of these asymmetries. [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] Today we hoped that the Government, The Greens and the other supporters of this majority would come to explain to the Portuguese how we will avoid desertification of the territory that is resulting from the prohibitions they are making, that is to say, prohibiting the planting of the only species that is profitable in the poorest and most interior territories of Portugal. Furthermore, after listening to Mr Prime Minister in the fortnightly debate, to say that the problem of the forest lies in the lack of sorting and, above all, in the lack of income that the current forest generates in some areas, the question that arises is how the prohibition of planting of a species will increase the territorial ordering and especially the planting of the most profitable species as it will give more profitability to the sector. These are the questions you have to answer. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, using the eucalyptus as an scapegoat of fires is already a dishonesty, but even worse it is to say that to order a forest the species has to be stopped. They have, yes, the kill zones! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u112	These areas of matte are the result of the abandonment of the land, and this is the ideal fuel for fires. [[PSD applause.]] Travada has to be desertification and that, yes, generates abandonment and disloyalty in the properties. [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] Mr. Minister and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to this reform that was under way — a reform, yes for a generation — you want to interrupt at the end of two years to carry out your reform caricature because only the present majority can make reforms for a generation, the former Government could not. This is the sad sign of our forest! The lack of horizons from those who have only seen a very short-term political opportunity in this sector. The PSD is available to work, to seek the possible convergences around this sector, but is not available to deal with this achievement to the forest. Our forest is worth more than that! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u113	Mr Francisco Rocha, from the PS, has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Nuno Serra, today we are aware that the PSD continues to realize that there is no ongoing forest reform, which is certainly not fair when we know that this reform is intended to be part of, comprehensive and balanced, which has repeatedly called for the contribution of the PSD and which, cumulatively, aims to promote cohesion, rural development, economic growth and the environmental sustainability of our country, wanting to contribute to our diverse and lasting forest, precisely and counterpointed with that which was the action of the right-wing Government that has even removed the F, D and R. It has to be a PS government, supported by the parliamentary left, which has called it the Ministry of Agriculture, Forests and Rural Development. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But we all know that complex problems do not have simple solutions. There are structural constraints and factors that mark our territory, from the outset: the forest structure, which is mostly in continuous monoculture of pine and eucalyptus; the depopulation of territories; the climate changes that further aggravate the risk associated with our Mediterranean climate. Therefore, it is fair to state that forest reform has the merit of discussing these structural issues and that are essential for the future of our country and that this debate has emphasized the increased efficiency of management, productivity, sustainability, investment and forest desertification, demonstrating a modern reading of the importance of forests in the context of climate change and its relationship with renewable energies, bio-economics and civil protection. Therefore, it is time to ask, because we still do not understand, whether or not the PSD is in accordance with the essence of this reform. Are you in agreement or not with the need to introduce a new management boost in the forest? Are you or do you not agree with an increase in forest planning? Do you agree or not with the imperative need to halt the abandonment of the forest and the territory? Are you or do you not agree with the urgency of stagnating, overcoming, the problem of lack of fuel cleaning in our forest? Do you agree or not with the need to contain the forest monoculture area, especially the eucalyptus? Do you agree or not that the bet on native species and the creation of forest mosaics should be encouraged? Are they or are they not in accordance with the use of controlled fire, with the reinforcement of ZIFs and the number of forest slags? Mr Nuno Serra, are you or do you not agree with the issue of the registration resolution? My dear, the time has come for the PSD bench to say once and for all to this House and to the country which is indeed its position, what are the contributions it wants to make to the future of the Portuguese forest. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u115	To reply, Mr Nuno Serra has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u116	Mr President, Mr Francisco Rocha, I am very grateful for the opportunity to explain once again the question of contributions, but before that and to take account of the availability of the PSD, I would like to ask what the Government and PS have done since April and why since April have not taken any initiative to discuss the proposals of the Government in the Committee on Agriculture. Since April the PSD says it is available for this convergence and to speak and so far, because they have not yet reached such agreement with the Left Block, no discussion has been made. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u117	It was from June 19th that you remembered that there were, after all, five government documents to be discussed and the PSD has always been available to discuss them. If anyone did not want to discuss these documents and this reform in good time, it was you. But also, Mr President, what you have to explain is the dishonesty of saying that you want consensus with the other parties when the Minister has just said that there is already an agreement with the Left Block. How is it possible to come first to say that there is an agreement with the Left Block and then to request an agreement from the other parties?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u118	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u119	Mr Minister, if you wanted an agreement with the PSD, you had spoken with the PSD and triggered this discussion with the PSD, which you have never done—you have never done! [[PSD applause.]] But there is still more, Mr President: we are available to discuss where the 500 million that Mr Minister says he does not pull, how much he has already been executed and how much he is investing in the forest. Ask the Minister of Agriculture what they have already done. You've been in the government for two years, how many years have you executed? What are you going to do to the 400 000 producers — today many of them live from this devilish tree that you call — to give them an alternative yield? You have to explain this to the Portuguese and don't come here with cheap demagogy and defend a left-wing ideology that doesn't lend you anything. Mr. Deputies, the PS has a story, just like the PSD also has a story. I would like to know what you are doing to defend the ideologies of a party, the Block of the Left, which arrived 18 years late for this debate, since, until now, you had never heard of a single idea about what you wanted for the forest. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u120	The next intervention is by Mrs Júlia Rodrigues of the Socialist Party. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Under-Secretary-General for Agriculture, Forests and Rural Development, Mrs. State Secretary-General for Parliamentary Affairs and Forests and Rural Development Members: Forest management and management has studies, diagnoses, plans and programmes that have been carried out for too many years without objective results. The coastalization of Portugal is a known and studied reality. The desertification of the interior of the country is evidence. The implementation of cross-sectional and integrated public policies is the only way to build durable solutions and sustainable decisions for chronic problems: in forest management and planning, through approval and implementation throughout the country of structural reform; in the desertification of the interior, through a comprehensive and inclusive strategy of valuing low-density territories. The two themes are inseparable and inseparable. One and the other are the reality of people who, like me, live in districts with a lot of area, but with few people to inhabit, and therefore to treat and care. in low population density regions, it is unquestionable the impact of the deinvestment and closure of essential public services such as courts, health services or education services. Realizing this political error, the current government has changed this trend,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u122	Here, here! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u123	... starting, exactly, by seeking to create conditions to decrease the coastalization of the territory. The announcements of the opening of courts, which were closed in the previous legislature, or the recent investments in health services, with the Minister saying that "the interior is not to close, it is not to desert, it is not to devalue", are an example. It is also necessary to create conditions and values for the populations, which resist and do not give up on the inside. And any vision that we can have for the development of these regions that does not see the centrality of endogenous resources or the primary sector itself is wrong. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, paying attention to the importance of the interior of the country, privileged the districts of Vila Real, Guarda and Bragança to carry out their parliamentary days. The creation of a mission unit for the valorisation of low-density territories and the national strategy for territorial, social and economic cohesion are fundamental pillars for a balanced and equal Portugal. The 21st Government Programme has opened the way to forest sector reform, in which it can read: "The forest has a very important role in creating jobs and in the country's economic development, so it is important to undertake structural reform of the forest sector and create conditions for promoting professional and sustainable forest management. Do not keep on seeking. ” In October 2016, at the meeting of the Council of Ministers held in Louisiana, 12 proposals for diplomas were discussed — 10 were the subject of public consultation throughout the country, in an innovative, unpublished initiative of legislative participation. On 21 March this year, on International Forest Day, the Council of Ministers approved the legislative package on forest reform, resulting from a joint work of an inter-ministerial committee, chaired by Minister Capoulas dos Santos. As we have mentioned, this reform covers critical areas of the forest sector: ownership of the property due to lack of registration and a system that facilitates land regularization; forest management and planning, i.e. the lack of forest management often caused by lack of profitability of small forest areas; defense of forests in the areas of fire prevention and combat. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: This reform corrects errors in the planning of the territory and the forest and rural area. This reform will facilitate the association of owners and the organization of the territory in forest intervention areas. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This reform encourages the grouping of forest owners with a view to the value and profitability of their land, increasing their investment capacity — forest management entities and associated incentives are proof of this. This reform, with the new legal regime of trees and reforestation, allows the expansion of a forest species which, despite important national economic development, needs to be controlled. This reform promotes the increase in the forest area of native species through the system of compensation. This reform, with the simplified registration and with the land bank, has an exact solution for the identification of forest owners and for known land owners, as well as for all landowners who do not want — and well — to leave their land for abandonment. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the serious debate on forest, the comprehensive analysis of diplomas, the common and shared objective of urgency of forest reform and the implementation of public policies of territorial cohesion in the country with a view to territorial occupation are national designs of this government. This reform is, in its essence, an urgent one, even though it does not, as we know, have immediate impacts. It is the so-called « generation reform ». from a few years ago, no one will remember the authors or the political context, as it has developed and who has accepted the proposals. from a few years now, we will certainly be sure that we have done the work that we were obliged to do. The government has done its job. We are now faced with all parliamentary groups, without exception, with the commitment and effort to approach and to consensualize the problem that the country demands from us: the adoption of this reform. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u124	Mr Mauricio Marques, from the PSD, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Júlia Rodrigues, we are in the presence of the propaganda government and the « accounting ». If there were any doubts, it was quite clear in the intervention of his banking colleague Francisco Rocha, when he said that adding two acronyms to the Ministry solves the problem. Well, not only did the government add two acronyms, but it also added more ministers, more state secretaries, more boys to all offices and did not solve the problem. Do you know what he added? Instability in all sectors that are critical!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u126	Make your contribution!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u127	Mrs. Júlia Rodrigues, would like to ask you a question: if, indeed, this is a problem that concerns the Socialist Party and the Government, why do the Government and the Socialist Party only remember the forest when it burns? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u128	If there were any doubts, to prove it, it was precisely in the fire of last year, in which one of the largest burned areas of recent times was registered, that the government went to Louisiana to promote what they called 'forest reform' and this year, after the tragic events,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u129	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u130	... that Mrs Júlia Rodrigues, on June 19, I repeat, June 19—you know why! Is that what you're talking about? — sent an e-mail to the Commission to discuss this matter, where, I must say, it was also accompanied by the momentary concern of the Left Block, which also sent an e-mail on 21 June.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u131	PSD doesn't even send emails!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u132	Shame on you, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS and BE protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u133	In reply, Mrs. Júlia Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u134	Mr President, I am grateful for the question raised by Mr Mauricio Marques...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u135	There was no question!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u136	...and I would like to say that we are all waiting for the PSD's contributions to this forest reform. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] As for the date on which the PS contacted the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, it is wrong, Mr. I'm sorry to inform you what was on June 8, but I can understand your concern. But this is not a problem that concerns the Government and the Socialist Party, this is a problem that must concern all Members, all parliamentary groups, all political leaders and, above all, it is a problem that is affecting, as it has affected in the past, all Portuguese, especially the Portuguese who live in the interior region, that the Government of the Member has been able to ignore, empty, and which, unfortunately, tries to return to these solutions. We regret your intervention and deeply regret the way you did it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u137	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u138	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u139	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u140	If it's a real interpellation, you have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u141	I would ask the President of the House to ask Mrs Júlia Rodrigues for the e-mail of 8 June which she refers to.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u142	The request is made, Mr. Deputies. We will continue with the next intervention. [[PS Protests and PSD counter-protests.]] I'm asking the ladies. Members who create conditions for Mr. Carlos Matias of BE to use the floor. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u143	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I step over the CDS ghosts on the alleged attacks of the Small and Microproperty Block, when precisely the policies of the CDS and the PSD that ruined thousands of small farms, which pushed thousands of small owners away from their plots, many of them for emigration, without stumbling.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u144	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u145	All this to force the concentration of the property in few hands and the exploitation of eucalyptus, as was the design expressed, black in white, in the RJAR (Reaborization and Reaborization Legal Regime), which is about to end. So let's go what matters. Priority must be given to the planning and management of the forest, despite the limited forest area that is owned by the State ; it must be chosen for a demanding way of public intervention, based on measures to regulate the ordering that requires public and private entities; a policy that involves the expansion of invasive species, which promotes the organization of small rural owners, especially in the mini-fundio, in order to confer economic rationality and high environmental criteria; an organization of owners, we stress, not of financial and cellulose companies to manage the forest, a situation which may lead to the Government's proposal in its current formulation. We recognize that the fact that only 2% of the Portuguese forest is public introduces a difficulty in implementing public policies for the forest. The State should therefore resort to the legal mechanisms it has available to increase public forest ownership and to manage it well, providing the necessary resources. with regard to private forest, the first pillar for a change affects the repeal of the law that liberalizes eucalyptus planting, and therefore it is necessary to adopt a new legal regime. But it is decisive a common management of the forest by micro and small owners, organized according to principles of equity, proportionality and fair distribution of charges and profits generated by contiguous and orderly rural areas. Professionally managed areas, it is true, that may grow using the compulsive lease figure to add well-knownly abandoned plots, adjacent, are located within its perimeter. This clustered forest management shall receive public support, in particular for its establishment and operation. This is an investment in the life of rural spaces. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time for profound changes in the forest and in the rural area without further delay. We want to join forces on this path, bringing the Bloc proposals together with other good proposals for serious changes. And how you need, more and more, real changes! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u146	Since no one subscribes to request clarification from Mr. Carlos Matias, he has the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Paula Santos of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The desertification of the rural world and the huge regional asymmetries in our territory are not the work of chance. They result from the political options of successive governments, investment in the productive sectors, abandonment of agricultural production, closure of public services and cuts in the social functions of the State. Since these are the causes for the abandonment of the interior and rural space, this reality must be reversed. It is not enough for this to introduce small changes so that everything will remain the same. It takes political will to break with the cycle of right-wing policy and its harmful consequences. Mrs. Members of the government, I leave you with a number of questions that I would like you to focus on in the intervention and in the time they still have. The first question arises: is the government available to adopt an integrated regional development and development policy for the productive sectors — agriculture, livestock, forest, industry, trade — through the balanced and sustainable occupation of all territories that can create wealth and create jobs? Is the Government available to strengthen public services and access to fundamental rights in these territories, inverting the options for closing schools, health extensions, CTT posts, GNR posts and even extinction of strawberries, leaving populations in isolation? Is the Government available to intervene in these territories, not depending on the size of the population, but, rather, taking into account the balance of the territory and the concrete reality in which the populations reside, taking into account the economic and social conditions, accessibility, geographical characteristics, so that the presence of the State effectively contributes to the defense of the interior without deresponsibility or transfer to others? We believe that these are key strategic issues in order to actually reverse this situation we have in our country and combat desertification in the rural world. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u148	Mrs Deputy, since no one agrees to request clarification, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: We can make the rounds we want, but there is a fact that we cannot escape, of which Portugal is the country of Europe which has lost the most forest area. When we see the intensive olive tree gradually occupy the place of the mountain above and ash in the Alentejan landscape or when we see the forest fires to take care of the country, we are forced to conclude that something goes wrong in the forest and that there is an urgent change in forest policy. First, it is necessary to ensure that it is in the forest itself that the prevention of fires and any change that will occur will have to take on this fundamental element. For this reason, it is absolutely imperative that we support policy for the sector in a global and integrated view of the forest, based on the recognition and appreciation of its multifunctions, particularly at the environmental, climate, social, cultural, landscape and economic level. On the other hand, recognition of the important economic resource that the forest represents for the country must not, nor should it be incompatible with the defence and enhancement of the other functions that the forest performs. This requires a break from policies that are based on a short-term economic vision and that benefit exclusively some restricted economic sectors where, of course, cellulose prevails. It was also on the basis of these assumptions that, in the new parliamentary framework, the Greens were committed to placing on the political agenda the imperative to stop the expansion of the area of eucalyptus. We were aware that it would not be an easy job not only because this goal required the confrontation with great and powerful interests, but also because of the situation of fragility and economic dependence of the vast majority of small forest producers who, more than threatened to be without their lands, need support and incentives and now, Minister, if they are required not to be channeled again to those of the custom. We knew, therefore, that it would not be an easy work, yet, The Greens, have not ceased to engage and collaborate with the Government in the search for legislative responses and solutions capable of blocking the unrestricted eucalyptization of the country and to promote a forest resistant to fires and diversified, sustained in the native and economically profitable species. This is because the country urgently needs a national forest strategy that assumes as the starting point that the forest is fundamental to life, that it performs its functions and that it must be managed sustainably. Therefore, we know that it takes time, not only for natural reasons, but also for economic and social reasons, and we must start to create the conditions and incentives for this to happen. To finish only a note to Mr Nuno Serra and Mrs Patrícia Fonseca: we do not want to diabolize the eucalyptus,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u150	Don't you? Oh,
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u151	... but we also do not want to transform the eucalyptus into the prevailing ideology. There's good sense! [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u152	For an intervention by the CDS-PP, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was clear in this debate that the CDS defends a diversified forest, also with the need for positive incentives for investment — tax incentives — in line with the deepening of an already-initiated path. This same is reflected in the National Forest Strategy (ENF ) that we have revived. We understand that the path of incentives to management grouped through various figures should continue to be traced, in particular through the strengthening of the FIF (forest intervention zones) with regard to forest fire protection and phytosanitary measures. We also understand that stability in policies is essential and therefore we urge the Government to take full advantage of existing mechanisms. Without prejudice to this, the CDS has a constructive attitude, as it has always had, in deepening solutions—because there is not one solution—which contribute to a better managed, better ordered and more resilient forest. We signal the opening of the Government to integrate our proposal for the forest management account, inspired by Norway's best practices and which, we believe, will be an important tool for most of the small forest owners in our country, for the benefit of everyone and our forest. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u154	Mr João Ramos, from the CFP, has the floor for the last speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members : « Going along councils such as Lousã, Gois or Pampilhosa da Serra, among others, is the vision that the horizon covers for dozens of kilometers, in which the successive repetition of forest fires is leading to the rapid erosion of soils and the destruction of the entire ecosystem. The destruction of secular forms of settlement and greenhouse economies are at the root of the multiplication of the burned areas and the progressive and worrying erosion of the soils and desertification of the greenhouse environment. It is therefore necessary to intervene effectively in the creation of a legal framework to promote orderly re-arborization, which is not being done, of areas covered by fires, subdivisions, diversifying species, paying particular attention to the planting of leaves. », end of citation. These words, so current, were written in November 1990 as part of a PCP bill for the creation of a re-arborization program for areas covered by forest fires. It is revolting to see that 27 years ago we already knew what needed to be done and, however, nothing, or very little, was done. The situation in which the Portuguese forest is located is dramatic because it does not serve the national interest, because it is not an active at the service of the country's development and still above it has become a threat to populations, their lives and economic activity. All the consequences of the lack of forest planning, the abandonment of production and the rural world, the depopulation of the country's interior. All consequences of the options of right-wing policy and of the promiscuity between political decisions and economic interests—in particular those of forest exploitation— such clear in the liberalisation of the eucalyptus, promoted by PSD / CDS, which have responded to the requirements of celluloses. All the consequences of the options of the right-wing policy and of the European Union for dismantling public services and State functions. Don't! It wasn't the state that failed. The responsibility lies with the right-wing policies. With other policies, the State is fundamental to solving the problems. [[PCP applause.]] The fundamental problems of the Portuguese forest are ordination, monoculture, continuous forest, lack of, in the territories, of people who promote cultural mosaics, lack of forest management, low wood prices, hostage to monopolies situations, non-promotion of indigenous species and noble woods, lack of means in decentralized services of agriculture and forest, lack of the financial resources necessary to carry out the register, promote ordination and stimulate management. In order to make substantial changes in forestry, political will and public investment are needed. The CFP will contribute to the implementation of the structural measures and urgent measures to support victims and to strengthen the prevention and fight against forest fires. We have already presented our proposals to the Government and have taken the initiative to initiate the process for a legislative initiative to be voted on until the end of the Legislative Session. We regret that there has not been unanimity in this initiative and that BE voted against, but we are determined to overcome all resistances and to pass the urgent law that the people and the country need. Immediate measures are needed to support victims, but also to prevent fires. Among other things, the hiring of 50 nature watchers; measures to comply with the rules of the Forest Defense System against Fires in respect of fuel management gang networks, defence of persons and goods and forest defence; the creation, in 2017, of 70 new forest slag teams; measures to ensure the operation, with full coverage, of telecommunications in the field of civil protection. We are also forwarding other proposals such as the guarantee of 500 forest slag teams within three years; the reconstitution of the forest guard body with an effective minimum of 1500 agents; the recomposition of the decentralised structures of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forests and Rural Development; the strict limitation of eucalyptus plantation, prohibiting it explicitly in irrigation areas; the exploitation of trees with native species; the allocation of means for the implementation of the forest register by 2020; the conclusion of the review of regional forest planning plans (ProF). The CFP not only has proposals to promote these changes, as it has often been pioneer. In 1980 the CFP proposed the first forest fire protection law based on the progressive definition and installation of forest intervention zones. The same ZIF that would only be created 25 years later. At that time, the PCP pointed to the importance of flocks in forest areas. In 1990 we proposed the creation of polygons with integrated defence and forest development plans. In 1994 a law of forest development was presented for the first time and by the hand of the CFP. In 1996, of the same proposal, with other projects, was born the Basic Law of Forest Policy. In 2012 the PCP again insisted on the need for a re-arborization program for fire areas. In 2012 the CFP insisted on strengthening the means of structural forest fire prevention and reducing the load of biomass. In 2013 we proposed the resumption of rural extension services and the reconstitution of the forest guards body. Proposals from the CFP have never been lacking; that, yes, the majority who approved them in the right time and political will to do what was necessary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u156	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u157	More than cosmetic changes, the country needs fundamental changes in forest policy, which meet the established interests and policies that have promoted them, and that affect the forest the basic financial and human resources for a different policy. Finally, the CFP will continue to count on this change and build a forest in Portugal to serve the sustainable development of populations and the future of our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u158	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, having finished the speeches, we will move on to the closing stage of this inquiry to the Government and the first intervention is the Greens Ecological Party. Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor, then.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at the end of this call that The Greens have scheduled, it is important, first of all, to stress not only the importance of the subject matter, but also the unanimous recognition of the relevance that the forest and the rural world represent for our country. During this debate it was clear that the major problems of the forest and the abandonment of the rural world stem from wrong political options, which over the decades have been giving in to the interests of the large forest industry. To these concessions it is also necessary to add the extinction of the forest body, the liberalisation of the eucalyptus, the visible public investment in the forest, the desponsibility of the State in the management of the forest, in the forestry system, in the fight against desertification and the abandonment of the rural world. It also adds the effects of the implementation of the CAP, the destruction of small and medium-sized agriculture, the disappearance of thousands and thousands of family farms, the weakening of the decentralized structures of the Ministry of Agriculture and the closure of public services which have greatly contributed to desertification and the abandonment of the rural world. But it was also clear in this debate that it is urgent to look at the forest as a strategic sector and that the recognition of the important economic resource that the forest represents for the country cannot and should not be incompatible with the defence and enhancement of the other functions that the forest performs. It was clear that a true forestry arrangement is needed to counter the extensive monocultures, which guarantees the cleaning of the forest and the planting of new traditional forest areas, which is necessary to value agriculture and the occupation of the rural area, which is urgently needed to renaiss the body of forest guards, integrated into a commitment to strengthen the decentralised structures of the Ministry of Agriculture, which is necessary to reverse the tendency to forest in continuous monoculture of highly combustible and fast-growing species, which is urgent to promote the increase of the price of wood in production, either in the forest or at the entrance of factories and which is required to stop the expansion of the eucalyptus area. However, much became clear during this debate: we did not realize what led the PSD to say that much of the territory does not have eucalyptus and that most of the Portuguese forest is not eucalyptus, when data from the 2010 National Forest Inventory tell us that the total area of eucalyptus has experienced an increase of 13 % between 1995 and 2010, the species that has the greatest occupation of the forest area on the continent — 812 000 ha, without counting the effects of the liberalisation of the eucalyptus promoted by the previous Government of the PSD / CDS. We have also lost sight of why the PSD claims that the eucalyptus is the least burning and where the fire is extinguished more easily, when we all know that the eucalyptus is more conducive to fire than any other species, promotes the spread of fires to large distances, saturates the environment, impoverishs the soils, drys the water lines and always grows incompatible with the remaining biodiversity of the forest. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The forest and the rural world we have today are not just the result of political options from various governments but also the result of the application of the Common Agricultural Policy (CAP). In fact, the CAP has accentuated and substantially aggravated the abandonment of our agriculture, the basis of occupation and life of the rural world, and without agriculture there is no longer any reason for the people's stay in the rural world and hence the abandonment and rural exodus. The few who are resisting, usually already old people, end up being at the mercy of the celluloses, in a situation of true dependence, to those who give in, or to those who are forced to give up their properties at very low prices. Also, therefore, the rural world is increasingly poor, because it is dependent on the celluloses and they lose interest in the land at the end of three cuts, about 25 years, leaving the territory and leaving the eucalyptus to serve as pasture for the flames. People, mostly elderly, without physical health or economic means to clean up the land, remain at the mercy of the abandonment of the celluloses, but also remain at the mercy of the fires. This was the result of the wrong political options that, for decades, have been assumed by governments and have caused serious social and environmental consequences. at the social level, the policies that promoted eucalyptus planting led to an increase in the number of fires and fostered its dimension, increasing its impact on populations that start to fear to continue living in these areas. Moreover, the monoculture of eucalyptus does not generate jobs in the rural world, like other forest species; it is a species that, since its origin, does not need means and has known a very fast mechanization, and for example, in its extraction process a single person with a boot machine is enough, that is enough! The environmental consequences are devastating. In fact, eucalyptus is an enemy species of biodiversity, it is selfish, sordid, dry everything around it and it is not resistant to fire, like the other species. Finally, I would like to say that the recognition of the problems of our forest and the rural world is not enough! It's little; it needs more! For this reason, The Greens will continue to fight not only to stop, and even decrease, the expansion of the area of eucalyptus in our country, but also to seek ways to boost the planting of native species, in particular by creating incentives for the planting of species such as the surrogate and Azinho. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u160	To close the debate, on behalf of the Government, Mr Under-Secretary-General Eduardo Cabrita has the floor. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate on the problem of the planning of the forest area, desertification and development in the rural world has all the opportunity, it is very important and, therefore, we welcome the Greens Ecological Party for taking this initiative. We do so at the time when, marked by the weight of Pedrogão Grande's tragedy, in order to clear up the moments we live, we have to find the paths to the future and intervene in relation to the real challenges that lie before us all: the ordination of the forest as a space for development; the valuing of the interior territory; the management involving the populations in a dimension of subsidiarity and decentralization that values the interior spaces and that fights the loss of population. We therefore welcome all the parliamentary groups that have contributed to this debate with constructive proposals that we will appreciate very carefully. We welcome, without a doubt, those who bet on finding solutions to the government's proposals for forest reform. We have been working on this topic since the first day, we have been presenting almost a year ago a large set of proposals that were in public debate, we value all those who have brought contributions here: the Left Block, which presented a broad set of concrete proposals, and the CFP, which also here emphasized the fundamental role of regional development policy and the appreciation of public services in interior spaces. We have no doubt in the CDS, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who do not have a vision that forces us to always be back, because we will not return to 1975, 2005 or 2011. The time we have to build is a time for the future and, therefore, we will evaluate everything that is good and bad has been done over time for it to be better done in the future. That is why it is so serious the stance that the PSD here has had, that for a year it did not present a single proposal on the set of forest reform projects. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PSD presented itself here, truly, stuck to the eucalyptus, hostage of its past and lost in a dead alley without a future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have to work around valuing the territory. That is why the Government, where others have closed courts, reopened or requalified 43 courts in the interior areas. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Where others have made the biggest tax increase in the history of democracy, the Budget creates a rate of 12, 5 % for the location of businesses in the interior areas. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Where there was a government without culture or Ministry of Culture the Côa Foundation reopens a dimension of cultural and economic appreciation in a low-density area. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Where health centres and public services closed down, we created a system for promoting the attraction of doctors to the interior and for creating shops of the citizen a little around the interior, particularly in Belmonte, Sardoal, Battle or Santarém, so that citizens have quality public services. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Filipe Duarte Marques.]] For this we will work with all the benches that are not hostage to their despair, with all those who have presented proposals here. The planning of the forest is a fundamental part for it to have economic value, so that it is an instrument of fixation and attractiveness of the populations, so that it is an instrument of innovation, of appeal of knowledge, of fixation of new populations, with qualification, working with universities, working with companies, working mainly for those who live in regions where 50 years ago the population was twice as much as what it is today. For us, valuing the territory is an absolute priority. This is why cross-border cooperation has been the unique theme of the recent Luso-Spanish Summit. Therefore, the arrangement of the forest is the theme in which, since October 2016, we expect everyone's contribution to this debate and we all greet, because everyone did it except the PSD. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[It's just conversation!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u162	For this reason, by valuing the territory, by defending a cohesive country, developed, solidarity for all, through the forest, as an ordained instrument, as an instrument of development, we will be here with all those who are not hostages to the past, but, yes, partners in the construction of the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u163	Mrs. Members, this concludes the debate of the appeal to the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u164	Mr. President, price at the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u165	Mr Mauricio Marques, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u166	Mr President, to make an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u167	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u168	Mr President, I would like to request you to deliver Bill No 300 / XIII to Minister Eduardo Cabrito ( 2 ). ( a ) presented last year with the aim of creating the national cadastral information system. It was a proposal... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u169	Thank you, sir. We got it. Make it to the Bureau that it will be distributed. I am sorry, Mr, but I will not allow you to speak on a proposal which was discussed last year. [[PS and PSD protests.]] The Bureau will do as you have requested. The second item on the agenda, for which there is no time for discussion, is the assessment of 1. the Supplementary Budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2017. We are therefore in a position to initiate the voting period. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot do so will have to signal to the Bureau and then make the presence, so that their presence at the meeting is considered. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 210 presences, to which 2 PSD Members Pedro Pinto and Paulo Rios are added ), making 212 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote. Let us then begin by voting No 349/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Salutation by exit from the excessive deficit procedure ( PS ). I request the Secretary, Idália Serrão, to proceed to your reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « on 16 June, the Council of the European Union decided, on the recommendation of the European Commission, to close the excessive deficit procedure ( EDP ) applied to Portugal. This decision is the recognition that Portugal has, in a sustainable and lasting manner, reduced its public deficit by placing - significantly below 3 % - the European Union's reference value. The positive results on the budget front after a deficit in public administrations of 2 % are reinforced by the reversal of the economic cycle, with a strong recovery of employment and economic activity from the second half of 2016. The country now grows above the European average and has a unemployment rate of less than 10 %. It should be noted that the sustainable and lasting correction of the public deficit was made in a context of improving social cohesion, increasing family income and the recovery of rights, a fact which cannot fail to be pointed out and duly valued. The Council decision recognises the enormous effort of the country and the Portuguese and constitutes an important vote of confidence in the merits of the strategy being followed in Portugal. In addition to political recognition, the exit of the EDP allows a reduction in the financing costs of the country, directly benefiting the financial situation of the State, families and Portuguese companies. Thus, recognizing the importance and scope of the Council's decision, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, welcomes Portugal's exit from the excessive deficit procedure. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u171	We shall proceed to the vote. [[Subject to the vote, the votes against the CFP and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD, BE and the CDS-PP were adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the NAP.]] We now vote on vote No 352 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Greetings to Portuguese by exiting Portugal from the excessive deficit procedure ( CDS-PP ). I request Mr. Secretary, Antonio Carlos Monteiro, to proceed to your reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On 16 June 2017, the Council of the European Union finally closed the excessive deficit procedure in Portugal. It is recalled that Portugal had been subject to this procedure since December 2009. This decision recognises the effort that the Portuguese have been making over the past few years. It was a great effort to overcome the deep problems that our country has gone through with the need to resort to external aid—to the troika—and, with the consequent economic recession, having managed to return to international public debt markets. It was an effort that made it possible to gradually reduce the budget deficit, which reached 11, 2 % of GDP in 2010. And, above all, it was an effort that allowed Portugal to go back and back into a path of economic growth and job creation that we all hope can be long, sustained and sustainable. The exit of the excessive deficit procedure is therefore very important for Portugal and, decisively, the merit of all Portuguese. thus, the Assembly of the Republic welcomes the Portuguese for the exit of Portugal from the excessive deficit procedure. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u173	We shall proceed to the vote. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN, votes against the CFP and the Greens and abstentions of the PS and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u174	I call on you, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u175	Mr. Paulo Sá, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u176	Mr President, it is to be announced that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u177	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall continue with the vote on vote No 344 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Congratulations on the classification of Castro Verde as the Biosphere Reserve ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[The United Nations Organization, through UNESCO, has just proclaimed Castro Verde Reserva da Biosphere in a recognition that honours the efforts of farmers in the region to develop the activities of the rural world in a framework of respect for biodiversity and ecosystems. With this classification, the tenth in the country, it is urged to preserve the traces of the identity of the landscape, human intervention and environmental heritage, in a framework of appreciation of the territory as a reserve space of the world biosphere and model of sustainable environmental preservation. After the recognition of the Alentejo song and the manufacture of shocks, the Alentejo again obtains a proof of recognition of the pulse of its people in harmony with traditions, environmental heritage and immaterial heritage. In a territory of almost 57 000 ha, with a strong component of cereal production that cohabits with a rich flora and a community of about 200 species of birds, resists and persists a population of about 7200 inhabitants committed to the affirmation of rurality and the preservation of the environment. It is another proof of valuing the territory of Lower Alentejo as a space with a differentiating identity, used to generate sustainable development solutions that entrust the region more future. It is also clear here that our rural world has enormous potential in the present and future. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, welcomes the classification of Castro Verde as a Biosphere Reserve and welcomes the wisdom, resilience and sense of sustainability of farmers, the municipality of Castro Verde, the Nature Protection League and the Association of Farmers of the White Field that contributed to the maintenance of the profile of the territory of Castro Verde.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u178	Mrs. Members, we then vote on vote No 350 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Congratulations on the classification of Castro Verde as the Biosphere Reserve ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstains from BE, the PCP and the Greens.]] [[It is as follows: The United Nations has proclaimed Castro Verde as a Biosphere Reserve recognizing an effort that should be attributed to farmers in the region by developing activities inherent in the sector while respecting biodiversity and ecosystems. This honourable mention once again reflects the importance of this territory as a reserve of the World Biosphere and an example of the preservation of the indigenous traits of the landscape and of the environmental and intangible heritage in a vast territory where there was concern to combine cereal production with a diversity of fauna and flora. The vast potential of the region for the future is evident as a statement of the rurality and sustainable preservation of the environment. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, welcomes UNESCO's recognition of Castro Verde as a Biosphere Reserve and enhances the involvement of all entities who have made an effort to obtain more this award to the territory of Lower Alentejo.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u179	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u180	Mr. João Ramos, do you ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u181	Mr President, it is to announce that we will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u182	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We are now voting on draft resolution No 954 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Brussels ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 953 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Extension of the period of operation of the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions ( RA President ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We then voted on draft resolution No 956 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Extension of the period of operation of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the Recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box and the Management of the Bank ( AR President ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote in general, in speciality and in a comprehensive final vote on Bill No 89 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Authorizes the Government to regulate the access and exercise of the activity of credit intermediaries and the provision of consulting services in respect of credit contracts by transposing Directive 2014/17 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 4 February 2014 on credit contracts to consumers for housing buildings. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] With regard to the same proposal, we are now voting on a request submitted by the PS, requesting the waiver of final drafting and the deadline for claims against inaccuracies, as provided for in Article 157 ( 1 ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we shall generally vote on Bill No 555 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Ensure parental assistance to childbirth ( NAP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the NAP and with abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP, the BE, the PCP and the Greens.]] The bill goes down to 9. the Commission. We shall now vote on draft resolution No 928 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government act to ensure compliance with the rights of women in pregnancy and childbirth ( NAP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP and the PCP's abstention.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 929 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the provision of water delivery in the National Health Service ( PAN ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the Greens and the NAP and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u183	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u184	Mr Bruno Coimbra, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u185	Mr President, it is to announce that with regard to draft resolutions 555 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) and 929 / XIII ( 2. (a) presented by the NAP, Mr Pedro Pispa will present a statement of vote for our total agreement with them.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u186	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall generally vote on Bill No 563 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 15 / 2014 of 21 March in order to strengthen the rights of pregnant women during childbirth and puerpera after confinement ( The Greens ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 9. the Commission. We are now voting on draft resolution No 934 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Strengthen measures to monitor pregnant women and puerpera in the National Health Service ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u187	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u188	Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u189	Mr President, it is to announce that the CDS will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u190	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall therefore proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 935/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a) — On the choice of water delivery in the National Health Service (The Greens). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u191	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u192	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u193	Mr President, it is to inform the House that, with regard to the last votes, the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u194	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Let's vote the 1st. the Supplementary Budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2017. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 869 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement measures extending tourist demand throughout the national territory ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 871 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of measures promoting scientific tourism ( PS ) ( the initial text was replaced at the author's request ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the NAP and with abstentions from the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, the CFP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u195	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u196	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u197	Mr President, it is to be announced that a statement of vote will be made on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u198	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall vote on draft resolution No 872 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of measures promoting health tourism ( PS ) ( the initial text was replaced at the author's request ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the BE and the PCP and abstentions against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u199	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u200	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u201	Mr President, it is to inform the House that we will deliver a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u202	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We now vote on draft resolution No 950 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Access of residents of neighborhoods or centres of precarious housing to essential services and goods ( BE, PS, PCP, The Greens, CDS-PP, PSD and PAN ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u203	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u204	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u205	Mr President, it is only to indicate that I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u206	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall vote on draft resolution No 689 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends the financing of the National Railway Museum ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 874 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of financing solutions for the National Railway Museum in the city of Entronicamento ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote in general on Bill No. 296 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — In order to ensure equal access to housing for pet animals ( NAPs) ( title and initial text replaced at the author's request ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the Member of the CDS-PP João Rebelo and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This diploma is down to 11. the Commission. We shall vote on draft resolution No 892/ XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Payment of the 2016 doctoral and post-doctoral grants by the FCT ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 574 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by the urgent construction of a public hospital in Sintra and in defense of the improvement of health care ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from the PS and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u207	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u208	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u209	Mr President, it is to be announced that the PSD bench will present a statement of vote on this diploma.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u210	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 919 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government conduct an audit of the existing training capacities in the various health units of the National Health Service ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We now proceed to the overall final vote of the final text, presented in the Committee on Education and Science, on draft law No 166 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Defines a phased payment scheme for premiums payable by higher education students and creates a special payment scheme by beneficiaries of social action grants, making the third amendment to Law No 37 / 2003 of 22 August ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We proceed to the general vote on the overall speciality and finality of Bill No. 564 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Establishs the independent technical committee for the rapid analysis and clearance of the facts concerning the fires that occurred in Pedrogão Grande, Castanheira de Pera, Ansião, Alvaiázere, Figueiró dos Vinhos, Arganil, Gois, Penela, Pampilhosa da Serra, Oleiros and Sertã between 17 and 24 June 2017 ( PSD, PS, BE and CDS-PP ). Each parliamentary group has 2 minutes to intervene on this matter. For the first intervention, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u211	Mr President: The PSD took the initiative to propose to all parliamentary groups the establishment of an independent technical committee, so that an assessment of what has happened, of the tragic events of the past 17-24 June, in the councils of Pedrogão Grande, Castanheira de Pera and others. In good time we did it. Our intention is not to find guilty or acquit anyone who might be responsible, but it seems to us essential that a technical, independent and credible judgment be made as soon as possible. I repeat, Mr President, I am glad we did. Today it is undeniable for any Portuguese that those entities that depend on the government and are diglading in the public square with contradictory reports and constant pass-throughs, do not at present have minimum objective conditions for carrying out this technical assessment in an unbiased and impartial manner. Therefore, the PSD believes that it was very happy for us to present a proposal to which other parties have joined. But, Mr President, those who eventually believe that the creation of this Technical Commission and the essential need for an independent evaluation will put in hibernation any political judgment and the demand for the necessary and essential answers that the Portuguese are now making. PSD won't. The PSD will continue to require the Government, the Public Administration and the entities involved in these events the necessary responses and will never exempt from the Government and Public Administration, either in this or in other matters. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u212	For an intervention by the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Filipe Neto Brandão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u213	Mr President : The explanatory statement of this bill that creates the independent technical committee, proposed by the PSD and to which the PS Parliamentary Group, by signing its parliamentary leader, has adjusted and contributed to build and equip them with independence and technical competence, mirrors, I believe - well, what the Portuguese expect of us. In the face of a fire which, unexpectedly, occurred in a tragedy of unparalleled proportions, in a country that is recurrently dissolved, year after year, by the scourge of forest fires, the questions, perplexities and concerns that the dimension of this tragedy provokes us cannot fail to be answered in a comprehensive and objective way. It is true, and we note - positively, that the government immediately ordered, together with the services with responsibilities in the various areas involved, that answers to crucial issues should be given. However, it would be important that, in addition to these, which will in time be handed over to their respective guardianships and of which we will become aware, we could consensualize an entity free from any link or subordination to the bodies of political or administrative power and which, in the same way, we agreed to designate its members who would offer to all Portuguese unquestionable guarantees of exemption, objectivity and rigour. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u214	So that the outcome of the work of this committee, which will be completed in a timely and irretrogable time, can be recognized by all Portuguese as an expression of the reality of what has happened and in an incontroversial way, so that there are no remaining rumors, partial versions or undiscounted versions, as still this week, in the 15th-year debate, someone euphemistically endorsed them. Only in this way will their conclusions and recommendations have the authority that the answer to our questions demands, only so will we be able to honor the memory of those who have died and the commitment of this Parliament can be no other but with transparency and truth, so that we may know but also so that we can act accordingly, as the Portuguese expect of us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u215	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares spoke for one speech by the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u216	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposal to set up an independent committee to investigate what has happened in the fateful fires of the last few weeks is a proposal advanced by the PSD, to which we give our consent, which we subscribe and which we will vote in favour, shortly. In the face of the tragedy that has occurred, we could not fail to have any other answer than that of the requirement for the clearance of all responsibilities. All questions must be asked and all answers must be given. I wanted the political debate and the PSD initiative which, on the part of Parliament, was to initiate the process by means of an independent committee. We are at the height of this debate and we have intervened to ensure that none of the aspects that have a relevant role in these fires—either the ordination or the lack of it, either the prevention or the lack of it, or the fight against fires or in some of the problems in this fight—was neglected as to the objective for this Commission to be created and the tasks it has to respond to after the final report. In the name of all the transparency and the requirement which it also imposes at this time, I would like to say that this Commission and the report to which it is obliged do not exempt other investigations which are under way and other answers which we consider urgent to take in the short term, and does not prevent any parliamentary group or the Assembly of the Republic from acting in the face of any answer which, in the meantime, is achieved here or which is clarified in the country. With this transparency, the only thing we can wish, when this intervention is completed, is that the whole truth is, in fact, clarified, with the independence and relevance of a committee which, beyond the political parties, can now have a final conclusion. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u217	You now have the floor on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Nuno Magalhães.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u218	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS, as I have said since this proposal was presented publicly, supports any initiative aimed at discovering the truth about the facts that occurred in the Pedrogão Grande, Figueiró dos Vinhos and Ansião councils. But we would like to say clearly that this independent technical committee is just that: it is a technical committee to find out and find out technical issues. This committee therefore does not, first and foremost, reinforces the need for this House to be able to use the full range of its regulatory powers to determine the responsibilities it has to discharge. And, moreover, it does not, before it strengthens, the need of the Government to give explanations and answers to the events that took place in those days. It will therefore be in this position and with this position that the CDS will view this committee as a technical committee, which does not, on the contrary, diminish the powers of the Assembly of the Republic and the demands and obligations of the Government to provide answers. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u219	On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u220	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The main reasons for the CFP's disagreement with the establishment of this independent technical committee remain. in our view, it is the responsibility of the Government to take action on the whole situation which involved the occurrence of the fires of June 17 and it is up to the Assembly of the Republic to concentrate on the adoption of an urgent law, to support victims and to strengthen measures to prevent and combat fires. With regard to this legislative process, we have already initiated procedures yesterday so that it can be approved. And, having only counted on the objection of the Left Block, we believe that there are conditions for the law to be passed quickly, until the end of this Legislative Session. As regards the clarification that needs to be made, we believe that the same must be the responsibility of the Government and we will intervene to ensure that the Government assumes this responsibility for the clearance of everything that has happened, so that this clearance is made free of interference from economic interests, that they are already seeking to put themselves in the field to maintain their privileges and benefits, and that the full clarification of the situation has been made so that the measures can be implemented and that we do not allow ourselves to be involved in the sterile debate on measures which, immediately, cannot have any kind of effectiveness. We will continue to intervene in the Assembly of the Republic so that these objectives can be achieved and, of course, we will not fail to assume our responsibilities either so that the committee can be constituted or so that that such clearance, which must be done, including on the situation in which the area was burned and on whether or not the rules for the prevention of forest fires were complied with, can be carried out in all its scope and by reaching out for all the responsibilities that have to be resolved. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u221	Finally, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u222	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : On the establishment of the independent technical committee, we reaffirm our position at the last Leaders Conference held last Tuesday, considering that the responsibility or competence for the clearance of the facts concerning forest fires referred to in the bill, both these and others, is the responsibility of the Government. It is up to the government to ascertain the facts. But in addition, we still have serious doubts and reservations about not only the priority nature given to this Commission but also its real usefulness and contribution to the settlement of the facts and to know what really happened in the forest fires referred to in the bill. Still, and giving the benefit of doubt, the Greens will not impermiss the creation of this independent technical committee.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u223	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u224	Mrs. Members, completed the assessment of Bill No 564 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Creates the Independent Technical Commission for the rapid analysis and clearance of the facts concerning the fires in Pedrogão Grande, Castanheira de Pera, Ansião, Alvaiázere, Figueiró dos Vinhos, Arganil, Gois, Penela, Pampilhosa da Serra, Oleiros and Sertã between 17 and 24 June 2017 ( PSD, PS, BE and CDS-PP ). We shall proceed to your vote in general, in speciality and in the overall final vote. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE and the CDS-PP, the votes against the CFP and the abstentions of the Greens and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, Bill No 296 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), which aims to ensure non-discrimination in access to housing by those with pet animals ( NAPs ), which has recently been approved in general, is lower than 1. the Commission for debate in the specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u225	Mr President, I call on the Bureau to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u226	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u227	Mr President, since this bill has to do with access to housing, I wonder if the Bureau confirms that it is 1. the Commission to deal with this matter. I wonder why there is a committee in this House dealing with housing issues.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u228	Madam Member, I have put this same question to the other elements of the Bureau, which have explained to me that, in the matter of non-discrimination, it is a matter belonging to 1. the Commission. So this is the question that is raised: it is not so much a question of housing but, yes, of non-discrimination.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u229	Excuse me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u230	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u231	Mr President, of course we respect the understanding of the Bureau, but I would suggest that there should be a connection procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u232	I don't see any problem with that connection. I believe that it will be useful and will raise the consensus of all Members. Members, including Mr André Silva, proposer of this bill. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been informed that, in the specialty, there can be no connection because the diploma can only go down to a committee for the debate in the specialty. Therefore, Mrs Helena Roseta, unfortunately, there can be no such procedure of connection, because the debate, in the specialty, can only be done in a single committee.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u233	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u234	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u235	Mr. President, this bill had already been down to 11. the Commission, therefore I think it makes sense to go back to 11. the Commission and not to 1. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u236	The information I have is that this bill has dropped to 1. the Commission with connection to 11. the Commission, not which fell to 11. the Commission with connection to 1. the Commission. In any case, I will confirm and, if it has been as Mr André Silva says, the bill will go down to the committee you have previously put down as a competent committee. I will have to check in my own office that I do not have here at the Bureau right now. Mrs. Members are in favour of paragraphs 83 to 92 of the Diário, concerning plenary meetings of 4, 5, 9, 10, 11, 17, 18, 19, 23 and 24 May pp. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] I shall now give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco for the reading of four opinions of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which will be voted upon after its reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u237	Mr. President and Mr. Members, in accordance with the request by the Funchal Working Judge of the Court of Justice of the County of Madeira — Case No 6926 / 15.0T8FNC —, the Subcommittee on Ethics decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Carlos Pereira ( PS ) to intervene in the field of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u238	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u239	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Braga — Investigation case No 963 / 13.6TABRG —, the Subcommittee on Ethics decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs. PS Hugo Pires and Palmira Maciel spoke in the frame of reference.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u240	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] Since there is no objection, we will vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u241	Mr. President and Mr. Members, in accordance with the request by the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Aveiro — Investigation case No 2912 / 16.0T9AVR —, the Subcommittee on Ethics decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Carla Tavares ( PS ) to intervene within the framework of the reference car.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u242	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u243	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa — Case No 4719 / 17.9T9LSB —, the Subcommittee on Ethics decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Helena Roseta ( PS ) to intervene within the scope of the reference car.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-30.u244	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] Since there is no objection, we will vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] As regards the issue, there was little discussion about draft law No 296 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) ( PAN ), on whether the Commission competent to which the diploma should be lowered for discussion, in the specialty, is 1. a or 11. a, inform me now that at my office to send the bill, I did it to 1. the Commission with connection to 11. the Commission, but then it was 1. the Commission requested that it be discussed in 11. the Commission. Therefore, to avoid repeating this situation, it is not worth sending the diploma to 1. the Commission will then refer it to 11. the Commission, we will send it directly to 11. the Commission. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. The next plenary session will take place on Wednesday 5, at 3 p.m., on the agenda of the debate on a draft resolution presented by the Block of the Left, which recommends that the Government ensure the defence of the public interest and the security of the population, assuming the management of the SIRESP ( Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks of Portugal ). There will be any vote at the end of the debate. The meeting is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 19 minutes.]]
