ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the plenary meeting. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. Let us begin with the discussion, together, of draft resolutions No 916 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends the recovery of the control and management of TTCs by the State with a view to the guarantee of the universal public postal service ( BE ), 981 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by defending a public, quality and universal postal service and by reversing the privatisation of the CTT(The Greens ), 1040 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — In defence of the postal public service for the recovery of public control of CTTs — Post Offices of Portugal, SA ( PCP ) and 1178 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote an assessment of the contractual responsibilities underlying the granting in force between the State and the CTT ( PS ). To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mr. Heitor Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. and Mr Deputies : The Left Block proposes draft resolution No 916 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) a recommendation to the Government to initiate the process of regaining control and management of the universal public postal service by the State through the rescue of the public service of mail and its public network to the TTCs. The reasons behind this proposal converge, all for the same conclusion: the total privatization of TTCs, terminated by the previous PSD/CDS Government on 5 September 2014, was a wrong decision because it harmed the vast majority of the population and seriously damaged the public interest. That is why, in our view at this stage of the process, the rescue of the granting of TTCs is justified, which must involve the return of TTCs to the sphere of the State's business sector. This path will be, for us, the construction of the best conditions to ensure an accessible universal postal service, not based on minimum standards, but on maximum standards of quality, such that existed before the privatisation process. In fact, as attested by the successive reports of ANACOM ( National Communications Authority ), there is a persistent failure by TTC to meet the service quality standards included in the National Postal Service Quality Convention. This behaviour has, moreover, motivated several fines to the company because it does not comply with the density criteria of coverage of the TTC network in public service, either geographically or in terms of opening time ranges, in violation of clauses 15. a and 20. a of the Concession Agreement. One of the main mirrors of the rapid degradation of CTT service is the labour issue. The diagnosis is overwhelming, pointing out some of the regressions, such as: the closure, since 2012 of 131 mail stations and 105 mail stations; the distribution of mail became, in urban areas, day no and, in rural areas, once or at most twice a week; the widespread reduction of the number of spins; the mail registered with more than one useful week of delay; in stations, huge queues of waiting for service; and an increasing number of unresponsive complaints. in this respect, there is even a curious fact of non-compliance by the CTTs, referred to in the latest report by ANACOM on the year 2016, in which the regulator records an increase in claims for delays and non-compliance compared to 2015, but the information conveyed by the CTTs only refers to the number of claims answered in 2016, which reduced 51 %, compared to 2015. In other words, ANACOM communicates the register of garlic and CTTs respond with « bugs ». The conclusion is direct: the TTCs try to weaken the control and supervision of the contract they have signed and will not be the successive fines that will change a private management profile, given little transparency and, above all, much more focused on defending their interest than to respect the public. The expression is that the administration of TTCs has been speedy in opening the way for the provision of other services of the activity to the dealership, in particular the provision of banking services, as was the case with the TTC Bank. The strategy is clear: to value the bank and to concentrate much of the resources on its promotion. With what consequences? As the ‘manta’ is short, the result of this strategy is the unstoppable degradation of the universal public service of mail and telecommunications. Worse service, but more expensive, is the orientation of this private management of TTCs, only in order to increase profits.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u3	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u4	I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it seems clear that the fines have ceased to have any corrective effect, so it is not clear that, in this context, an informal group is proposed to assess the contractual responsibilities underlying the grant in force.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u5	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u6	Therefore, if the Assembly of the Republic today recommended to the Government to initiate the process of the recovery of control and management of the universal postal service at the end of 2018 it would be possible to have, in the TTCs,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u7	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u8	... an administration of the State, with the mandate to reconstitute a public management of the postal service on the basis of the guarantee of the universal postal service.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u9	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u10	Is it late? Maybe! But in this case, the proverb applies: it is worth more late than ever! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u11	I'm asking the ladies. Members to respect the times because we have a very long agenda. You have the floor to speak, Mr. José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When the previous government privatized the TTCs, no one understood why.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u13	We understand very well!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u14	And no one realized from that point on, because, in addition to providing an excellent postal service, recognized to the international level, CTTs still contributed revenues to the state every year. But the PSD/CDS government, hearing no one, went forward and now the results are in sight of everyone. But more, as has happened in other privatisation processes, the case of TTCs has also been preceded by a set of measures aimed at the degradation and dismantling of the company. Today, it just doesn't see who doesn't want, because the growing deterioration of mail services, the fruit of this privatization, is perfectly notorious. Let us see what happened after privatization: hundreds of stations were closed; fraud of the CTT heritage with the sale of several important buildings; hundreds of postal prescriptions withdrawn from the public way; dismissal of workers; increase of precarious links; increase of routes of each distribution turn; waiting times for service that have substantially increased; lack of money available at the stations for payment of pensions and other social benefits; generalization of situations in which the mail is no longer distributed daily (remember that there are locations in the country where the mail carrier only passes once a week); delivery of mail to other companies under outsourcing. All this without taking into account the needs and rights of people and workers. In addition to this degradation of service, we will still have to add the increase in tariffs, which, it is recalled, since privatisation have risen more than 50 %. That is, at the moment, and as a result of privatization, citizens pay more and the offer of service is less and at the same time workers see their working conditions suffer a great setback. In addition to this situation the CTT Bank has been implemented on the structure of the CTT mail stations, operating in the premises and with the workers thereof, which are diverted from the desks of the postal services to the counters of the bank services, which naturally increases the waiting lines. It will certainly not be by chance that ANACOM has already proposed to the Government to fine TTCs for disrespecting the concession agreement and the Quality Agreement. On the other hand, it is enough to look at the three regulatory reports, which refer to the three years of privatization, to see where we are when we talk about the degradation of postal service. A scenario that had nothing to do with TTCs, which, as a public company, besides being profitable, generating revenues for the state, still provided a high quality public service. If it is true that, even with the course we have witnessed in recent years, TTCs have not lost their importance, continuing to be a factor in promoting territorial cohesion and combating inequalities, it is also true that postal service, to continue in the hands of private people, has its future committed, under the penalty of being irreversibly destroyed. It is this picture that leads us to the sad finding that the privatization of TTCs presents itself as an injury to the State, which presents itself as an injury to the populations and presents itself as an injury to the workers. In the face of all this, it is important that TTCs provide quality service to the entire population, fulfilling their role in the development of the country, at local, regional and national level, and that is why it is essential that the Government defend this strategic service and the interests and needs of the citizens and the country. But this is only possible when the CTTs re-integrate the sphere of the State, moving the State to stop the control and management of the postal service, which is exactly the purpose of the legislative initiative which the Greens bring today for discussion.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u15	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The economic groups which control the TTCs today are clearly, increasingly, living above our possibilities. In order to raise hundreds of millions of euros in profits and, even more, in dividends distributed to shareholders, private management of TTCs is decapitalizing the company, alienating property, degrading service at scandalous levels. The normal mail rate has increased 47 % since privatisation. Between 2009 and 2016, that is, in the process of preparing and realising the company's delivery to the private, 564 stations and post stations, large hundreds of jobs were destroyed. Today, the mail takes longer to reach the destination than it took 30 years ago. And after dismantling, thus unacceptable, fundamental functions of the postal public service, the administration now sends thousands of company workers letters to invite them to go to the street. It is indeed a scandal that is happening! [[All right.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u17	Therefore, at this moment we cannot fail to express a word of solidarity and appeal to the solidarity of all to the struggle of the workers of the TTCs. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] The fight that continues with the strike called for 21 and 22 of this month, the concrete struggle that continues in the workplace, the struggle that continues with the undersigned, that the SNTCT (National Trade Union of Postal and Telecommunications Workers) continues to develop, with the company's reversion requirement for public management. We would like to point out that the defence of public interest and national interest, the defence of public postal service, populations and workers cannot pose a threat to the future of TTCs but rather to the defence of TTCs. We cannot therefore agree that the way in this matter is to withdraw the public mail service to the TTCs and then try to do whatever it is. The central problem is not the mail concession contract, the problem is the privatization of mail. That is what is at stake, and that is what requires a concrete response and political courage from those responsible for this matter. If we voted the titles of the projects, the case would be different, but what happens is that in the draft resolutions we voted the texts in the resolution part, and in the resolution part the BE project specifically proposes the rescue of the public service of the postal services and its public network to the CTT, and this we cannot accept. We note that the PS replaced the initial text of its draft resolution, which was distributed today, and that now puts the perspective of the evaluation under study not only of the options, regarding the concession contract, but also of alternatives of other nature that are placed, quoting the text. We want to say here, with all the letters, that alternatives of other nature that are placed, in an undisputed way, are the measures that must be taken to reverse this criminal business of privatization of TTCs. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] Bringing TTCs to public management, to resume investment and strengthening the response capacity of the postal service — this is the proposal of the CFP — not suddenly as an act but rather as a process that needs to be prepared and organized, but which cannot continue to be postponed and, much less, ignored. Mails have to go back to public management, they have to be back to all of us, they have to be back in service to the people and the country. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u18	Mr João Paulo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The former PSD Government / CDS, through the voice of the former Secretary of State for Transport, assured Parliament in October 2013, and I quote, that « (...) irrespective of who the shareholder is (...) the quality of the universal postal service will never be concerned, (...) ». Unfortunately, once again, the reality has been rejected by the previous government, because: the privatization of the TTC brought to the country a cycle of degradation of the universal postal service; tariffs increase successively, for example, that the rate corresponding to normal mail, up to 20 g, has already increased 47 %; there have been closures of about 130 mail stations; there are councils without a mail station; in many locations of the country, the postal distribution has become carried out only once a week and, in addition to being delayed and, in many cases, excessively delayed, the average time of service to the public has disappeared; the overwhelming majority of customers face high waiting times, with greater loss to the elderly, who need to resort to stations and post posts for the receipt of their pensions and reforms. All of this affects people and businesses on a daily basis; all of this is public knowledge. The degradation of postal service is therefore worrying and indisputable and results from a purely economic strategy that has been followed by the administration of TTCs, which since privatization has outsourced a set of resources and resources that should remain in the direct sphere of the company. For example, there has been a decrease in the number of wallets, an increase in the average route of turns of each post office, with part of the distribution of past mail to the hands of subcontracted outsourcing companies—only in the north of the country, more than 300 rounds are subcontracted—, a decrease in the number of mail station workers, by this staff being affected by the Post Bank and by the meantime closed stations have passed to the Post Bank. Savings certificates and Payshop services have now been marketed by the Postal Bank or by staff affected by this Bank and most of the universal postal service is currently provided by the indirect network, through the network of contracted posts with companies and freguesian joints. It is a strategy in the eyes of everyone: to improve the structure that supports universal postal service, on the one hand, by resorting to subcontracting, and, on the other, to transfer to the Post Bank a set of resources and resources that should be maintained in the direct sphere of the company. It would not be necessary to create an informal group to evaluate the service that has been provided by the TTCs, because unfortunately all Portuguese know how to evaluate it by direct experience. The essential point is that TTCs act on the basis of a concession contract, which is where public service obligations are defined. And this contract is the responsibility of the previous PSD / CDS government, which privatized the company and traded the current concession. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in view of the service provided by the company, it is in fact important to assess the degree of compliance with the concession contract, in particular public service obligations, and whether these obligations were duly guarded by the previous Government, it is important to assess the contractual responsibilities of the parties and to consider the possible models and consequences of the concession contract, in particular those resulting from the conclusion of the concession contract, as well as alternatives of other nature, which are put in place. We are facing a problem that is reflected by all regions of the continent and islands, which affects people and businesses and has to be invested in as soon as possible. This is the proposal and commitment of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u20	Mr Leite Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mr. João Paulo Correia, the lack of memory is not a rare disease in Members of the Socialist Party. We knew it, it's not news! Rare, very rare, is the assumption of their responsibilities by their leaders, their rulers and their deputies,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u22	... once it is, by what they have done and done and by now with a little bit of shame and a little shame, Mr. [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u23	I would like to remind the honourable Member of a news of 2010, therefore, of the time of the Government of Eng. Socrates, who, as I know, was Prime Minister of a Socialist Government, according to which the Government joined the insurer Fidelity, EDP, Galp and CTT to the expected privatisations of REN and TAP. This was during the time of the PEC ( Stability and Growth Programme ), Member of the Commission. [[That's right! It's not now!]] [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u24	Tell them how they voted!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u25	Moreover, the Memorandum of Understanding signed by the Government of Eng.o Socrates, where many of the Ministers of the current Government were there, said: "The Government will accelerate the privatisation programme. The existing plan for the period up to 2013 covers transport(... ), energy(... ), communications ( Correios de Portugal ) (... ) ». [[PS protests.]] It is written, it has been signed by a socialist government and therefore only the lack of shame can cause the Member to accuse the Democratic Social Party of this decision. [[PSD applause.]] The former government granted postal services by 2030. The concession consists of a set of obligations and objectives which are defined and accompanied by the regulator, ANACOM ( National Communications Authority ), and also by the Government. It is extraordinary that, two years after the government has taken over, the honourable Member will come to this House to present a draft resolution recommending to the Government what is its obligation! What has the government done these two years? Oh, my God! [[Well said!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u26	Does the Government have data on the failure of TTCs to comply with universal postal service and obligations under the concession contract? Do you have any data, sir?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u27	Here.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u28	So why didn't you do it? Oh, my God! What has the government done in the last two years? Oh, my God! [[Nothing!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u29	Moreover, Mr President, ANACOM last September defined for the next three years the density of the postal service network and the minimum services. What did the government do? Does the government agree? Has the government supported you? Has the government asked for a change? Did the government demand more, Mr. Deputies? It is this lack of shame, Mr. Member, and responsibility that is the watermark of this government, and of the Socialist Party, because it does not govern, nor assumes its responsibilities before the country, which it has. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u30	Mrs. Members, shame should have VV. Ex. for not taking on your responsibilities and for once again not taking on that which is the function of the State. [[PS protests.]] You know, Mr. Member, what the country needed, what the country asked for was that, once and for all, VV. They ruled and looked at the interests of the Portuguese and did not spend time taking responsibility for others. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u31	Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen: It should not be surprising that the Portuguese Communist Party, the Left Block and the Greens Ecological Party are not concerned either with the users or with the quality of the postal service provided. [[Protests from BE, PCP and the Greens.]] That doesn't surprise us. In fact, it was clear from the interventions and proposals presented here that, if so, we would not be discussing the nature of the company, whether it is public or private. [[Protests from BE, PCP and the Greens.]] I must remember that the worst years in which postal service was far below the minimums, which is 100, 49 and 46, were in the years 2003 and 2006, when it goes away! — the company was public.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u33	Will you spare me? Oh, my God! [[PS, BE and PCP rice.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u34	Don't worry about it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u35	Get away from me! That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u36	It can also give spasms,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u37	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u38	... but it's no big deal. So, if so, we would be here discussing the standards of quality, the network and the density of it, the innovations that the sector should incorporate and, perhaps, to what is a new reality of postal service, where there is an obvious breakdown, that we all recognize, of traditional mail or letters, that it is an increase in other kinds of products, to determine whether the sustainability of the company or its results provide, or not, this degradation and if it is possible to do more. In other words, what we really should want to know was: what public service we want; what service we want to hire; what was what we hired and how it is being provided. And even we can go further: we may want to know whether the regulator that concerns quality, supervises and penalizes has sufficient means and is doing the service according to what was the concession contract. So these were the issues that we should be discussing and even to do something, because as the concession contract ends in 2020 we should realize that we want to introduce changes into the new contract. This would be a real discussion about postal public service, the sustainability of the system and what we want for the future. None of this is being discussed here today, because if we look at the proposals, what appears is, in fact, the nature of the company, whether it should be public or private. [[Just like that!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u39	What the CDS wants to do is this discussion, about the quality of the service, the density of the network and how the sector can be more sustainable, how it can incorporate more innovation, how it can continue to capture foreign investment, in a logic to prestigious the government, because it becomes a respectable government, since it meets the agreements, to respect the market economy and, of course, also the rights of workers. So, about the Socialist Party, in fact... [[Protests by PS Deputy Luís Leite Ramos.]] Mr. Luís Leite Ramos is surprised! It is not worth surpriseing, Mr. Do you know why, Mr. Luís Leite Ramos? The Socialist Party, at a rare moment of clarity, in its draft resolution writes: « (...) we have enormous difficulties in confirming the fulfilment of public service obligations(...) ». In other words, the Government assumes that it has no conditions, no capacity, to control the service provided or what the performance of that contract is. So I'm not surprised that Mr. João Paulo Oliveira... [[João Paulo Oliveira?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u40	... João Paulo Correia...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u41	First, it is spasm, now, it is John Paul Oliveira!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u42	...have, in fact, done here this lack of seriousness. It is not possible for you to come here to say what you said when you know it was the Socialist Party...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u43	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u44	... that put the privatisation of TTCs in the Memorandum of Understanding. It is not possible that the Socialist Party, whenever it does any intervention, is concerned not to assume its past, its values, what it defended in the past but to try to please the extreme left. It says the people, and rightly:...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u45	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u46	"Tell me who you're with, I'll tell you who you are! » and this becomes increasingly clear in the Socialist Party. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u47	Mr João Paulo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u48	Mr President, we are not discussing a privatisation package here, we are discussing a concrete privatization, that of the TTCs, which was operated by the former Government, PSD / CDS, and at the time that the Government said here in Parliament, that it would be all right. Regardless of whether CTTs are state-owned or are in the hands of a private group,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u49	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u50	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I said, at that time, the PSD/CDS government said here that, regardless of the acting function of the state or private, it would be all right. The truth is that all Portuguese people know that it didn't go well, that the universal postal service has been degraded...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u51	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u52	... and that the big ones responsible are the previous government, PSD / CDS, and you realize the embarrassment of the PSD and CDS in this debate. And therefore shame is not on this side, shame is on that side. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u53	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS, as they try to make this discussion a discussion of fanaticism and ideological abstraction, what we want to say is that we are talking about the concrete life of people, the concrete life of the populations, particularly of the interior regions, which are being abandoned, the result of the decisions that you have taken when privatizing the mails. The rest is conversation, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u55	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u56	I'm done now, Mr. President. Have you changed the law to withdraw powers and competences from ANACOM to prevent closures, and are you now unable to stop closing stations, and are you coming with the quality of service and the density of the network? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u57	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u58	I will finish, Mr. President. Do you see this conversation when each of the decisions they made was to make life difficult for people and to degrade postal service? Oh, my God! We don't want to let it burn... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u59	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u60	...to nationalize the ashes, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. We want to defend public service, populations and workers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u61	Mrs. Members, we have reached the end of the debate on draft resolutions Nos 916/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ), 981 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), 1040 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and 1178 / XIII ( 3. ( a). We moved on to the discussion, in general, of Bill No. 686 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Consecrates the worker's freedom of choice in the receipt of the Christmas allowance and the holiday allowance in twelfths, making the first amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, which approves the Labour Code ( CDS-PP ). You have the floor to open the debate, Mr António Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS presents today Bill No. 686 / XIII ( 3. ( a ), which enshrines the freedom of choice of workers in the receipt of Christmas and holiday allowances in twelfths. Christmas allowance — 13. the month, as has already been called – exists in Portugal since December 1972 ; the general holiday allowance was paid after 25 April 1974. They are workers' rights and this project does not question it. The period currently set out in the Labour Code to receive the allowances is until December 15, the Christmas one, already the holiday one must be paid before the same holiday period is enjoyed. From 2013 onwards, and during the period of the crisis, the State budgets established annually the possibility of workers opting to receive these same subsidies in twelve months. in the 2018 State Budget, this forecast ended. The CDS therefore proposes that it be a right of workers to receive the allowance in twelfths. That becomes a worker's option. It should be stressed that this is an option of the worker.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u63	Do you know what they say on my land? That's where I come from!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u64	And allowing the choice as to how the worker wants to receive the Christmas allowance and the holiday allowance is an exercise of freedom. There is no right of workers to be called into question. [[Protests by PCP Members Ana Mesquita and Bruno Dias.]] There is no imbalance in the relationship between the employer and the worker who justifies limiting the freedom to exercise this right of choice of workers. Therefore, the CDS, because it believes that it must be enshrined in the Labour Code, no longer being casuistically established in the State budgets, this same right...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u65	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u66	... made a commitment to propose this amendment. We want to do so in dialogue with the unions and employers, we are available for dialogue, in the field of expertise, and therefore Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sure this proposal will deserve the approval of the entire House. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u67	Mr António Carlos Monteiro, the Bureau records the entries of Mrs Rita Rato and Mr José Luís Ferreira for clarification. You have the floor, first of all, Mrs Rita Rato.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u68	Mr President, Mr António Carlos Monteiro, for those who put forward a proposal to affirm the freedom of choice of workers, it seems to us at least incoherent that he has not even heard them. In fact, the CDS has tabled a proposal which represents an amendment to the Labour Code and which did not even have public discussion, has defended freedom of choice, but did not want to listen to workers about what they want to impose — but this is also part of the practice of the CDS. Mr António Carlos Monteiro, I would like to recall here the words of the then Secretary of State for Employment Pedro Silva Martins, of the PSD Government / CDS, when he presented the bill that imposed the payment of allowances in twelfths. Thus the then Secretary of State said: « As is known, the payment of holiday and Christmas allowances in a concentrated way in two months(...) creates obstacles to good financial management by companies. » But—but! — listen carefully to what your colleague, then the PSD/CDS government said : « On the other hand, it is also important to reduce the impact of the increase in the tax burden resulting from the State budget for 2013. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u69	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u70	Now, sir, through the mouth the fish dies!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u71	Well, well! That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u72	And through his mouth a decision died, which was to impose the payment of holiday and Christmas allowances in twelfths to hide the cut in wages and increase the tax burden.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u73	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u74	This is a responsibility that the CDS and PSD will never cease to have. In fact, pay attention to what the heading of this bill said. The heading of this bill was as follows: « It establishes a temporary payment scheme for Christmas and holiday benefits to be in force during the year 2013. Do not keep on seeking. ” Well, we already know what is temporary for the PSD and CDS : it was in 2013, it was in 2014, it was in 2015, it was in 2016, it was in 2017, it's only not going to be in 2018 because the PCP contributed to the replacement of that right. That's the contribution we left. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u75	To request clarification, Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u76	Mr President, Mr António Carlos Monteiro, says in the explanatory statement of the draft law of the CDS, that « from 2013 onwards, and following the financial aid to Portugal (... ), the then PSD / CDS coalition government instituted the payment of these subsidies in duo-decimous ». But, Mr.António Carlos Monteiro, the reason was not that, it was not the troika that forced the PSD/CDS government to institute the payment of these subsidies in twelfths. This mechanism was a trick that the previous government used, for a single purpose, for a single purpose,... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] ... which was very clear: what the previous government tried to do was that people were not well aware of the burden of taxation that you imposed on them.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u77	They said it! They said it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u78	The reason, therefore, was the attempt to cushion the effects of the tax burden imposed by you on the Portuguese. Then, Mr Deputy, in the explanatory statement of the draft law of the CDS it is said: « This regime was established on an annual basis in the State budgets, allowing workers freedom of choice as to the form of their receipt. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mr. Deputies, what workers? Oh, my God! What freedom of choice? Oh, my God! It is because, when we say « to the workers», the idea remains that it is for everyone, which is not true, as you well know, Mr Deputies, since the employees of the Public Administration had no option of choosing and are also workers. Of value, Mr. Member — of value! — the CDS would have proposed freedom of choice for public administration workers when the government that its party supported and integrated decided to pay these subsidies in twelfths.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u79	Exactly! [[Protests by CDS-PP Member António Carlos Monteiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u80	That would have been valuable, sir! That would have been valuable! But I have a question to ask you, Mr Commissioner: is this initiative, which the CDS presents to us today, thinking about who? Who does the CDS intend to protect with this initiative? And do you know why I ask this question, Mr? Because it is said that "When the alms is very much, the poor distrust", and I think that when the CDS is concerned about the workers, the workers have more than enough reasons to distrust them. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Maria das Mercês Borges.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u81	To reply, Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u82	Mr President, Mrs Rita Rato, listening to your speech, I realized what the problem is,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u83	I'm glad you got it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u84	... is that the honourable Member thinks that the CFP has the monopoly of the representation of workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u85	You got it wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u86	Answer what you've been asked!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u87	It is the only party that can speak on behalf of the workers! [[It's true!]] [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u88	Answer what you've been asked!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u89	Have you not heard what the UGT (General Workers' Union) said? UGT said it is in favour of this initiative! [[Protests by PCP MP Rita Rat.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u90	Doesn't UGT represent anything? Oh, my God! It's like CGTP!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u91	And does the honourable Member come to preach about the hearing of the workers? Oh, my God! The honourable Member is coordinating a working group in the Committee on the transmission of the establishment and the CFP project was approved in this Chamber without the public consultation of the workers!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u92	There was public discussion!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u93	And you have accepted to vote on it in those terms!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u94	There had been public discussion, the project was scheduled! He's being a liar! He's being a liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u95	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u96	So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are surprised at is that you, who say that you are in favour of the workers, feel that you do not have to worry about the freedom of the workers. [[Protests from PCP MP Miguel Tiago.]] It is unfortunate that the freedom of workers means so little to you because, in reality, what you want is to send workers and have the monopoly of workers. [[Congrats from PSD Members.]] [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] And, Mr. João Oliveira, next time you say that what I'm saying is a lie,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u97	That's what he's lying about! There was public discussion! The initiative has been scheduled!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u98	...it's good to know that there's proof here that whoever's missing the truth is you, it's the PCP! [[At the moment, the speaker presented a page in the summary of the initiative set out in the Parliamentary Activity database.]] [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] There was no public consultation! There was no public consultation and I am waiting for your apology! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u99	Mr Pedro Roque has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u100	Mr. Antonio Carlos Monteiro is lying! The initiative was scheduled for public discussion!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u101	You're a liar! I'm waiting for an apology!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u102	That's no excuse. Get another one better! Don't lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u103	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to meet the conditions for Mr Pedro Roque to begin his speech. [[Pause.]] Please, Mr. Pedro Roque.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This draft law of the CDS aims to raise an elementary question of freedom of choice which was repealed in the State Budget for 2018, when determining now that the worker cannot have the income of his work in the most appropriate way. [[Protests from PCP MP Miguel Tiago.]] It is not here to question the payment of the two additional salaries corresponding to holiday and Christmas allowances. First, it is a matter of allowing the worker to choose, according to his free will, whether he is intended to receive this value in full, before the holiday and the month of Christmas, or whether he, on the contrary, finds it preferable to increase the monthly wage with the twelfths of these two additional salaries, or also a mixture in which, at the same time, he increases the monthly wage and receives half of the allowances within the prescribed deadlines. One more way, one more way, the other, one of the other two. This is a decision which only you, a worker, and no one else will concern, since it is the right to pay for your work, as defined in Article 59. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u105	All right! Freedom of choice!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u106	There is an ideological frontier which separates in this Parliament those who understand that workers are citizens of full right, who have the ability to have the income of their work in the way they understand themselves, thus constituting themselves as individuals, and those who, instead, understand that they constitute a class whose main mission is to fight against capital, thus constituting themselves as an anodious collective and manipulatable according to the interests of the party directives that command this struggle.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u107	That's right! That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u108	Now, if this is not new to us, the only originality lies in the fact that the Socialist Party, the pillar of the democratic system and which has always been characterized by moderation and gradualism, is now ideologically captured by the management partners in the field of work. It's just that, in this arduous barge of managing the parliamentary support of the communists, the PS has closed down on this subject,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u109	The PS hasn't even spoken yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u110	... preferring, once again, in labour matters, to align on the side of those who diminish the ability to choose the worker.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u111	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u112	But today you will have the opportunity to amend your hand. on our part, on the part of the PSD, in consistency and with no doubt about the value of individual freedom, we will vote in favour of this CDS project. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u113	Mr Soeiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is loaded that the same CDS, which approved the amendments made in the previous legislation against workers, comes to speak of the importance it gives to dialogue with trade unions and labour rights. We did not see this dialogue with the unions and the importance of these labour rights when, on your own initiative, cuts were made in wages, the labour legislation was changed, meaning a loss of income for workers, fiscal changes were made against workers' rights and to impose less income on them...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u115	Look who put the country in bankruptcy!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u116	... were cut off holidays, forcing the workers to do more four days a year of work, without earning more.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u117	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u118	So I ask: where were the rights of workers and the concern with the unions at that time? But in addition, it is clear why there was a change to the payment of Christmas and holiday allowances: it existed, as mentioned above, to cover the salary cut, to disguise the cuts that were being made, by tax, in the performance of the work. It was to disguise your cut that this measure, which has now been reversed—and very well! - It was done at the time. Is the CDS now in favour of more income for workers?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u119	Always!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u120	Of course not! That's not what's at stake.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u121	It's now!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u122	In fact, the way the PSD and CDS choose to defend this proposal is frankly a mistification: they speak in freedom of choice in a working relationship, a relationship that we know is, by nature, asymmetric. In fact, all labour legislation is based on the recognition of the asymmetric nature of a work relationship. Therefore, speaking in contractual freedom in such a relationship is, purely and simply, giving a chance to the freedom of only one of the parties, which is the part that has power, the employer,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u123	On the contrary!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u124	...the part of whom the worker depends. If the employer proposes that the worker accept, with great freedom and use his will, the employer's proposal not to pay him the holiday allowance when he has to pay him or not to pay him the Christmas allowance at the time he should pay him, what is the freedom that the worker has to refuse this employer proposal? Mrs. Members, your speech on free will, on freedom of choice, on the voluntary acts of the worker in a relationship that is, by nature, asymmetric, reminds that Raúl Solnado’s tale, when he said to his son: “My son, whether you want to, you will not be a volunteer fireman.” That's what you remember, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u125	Mrs. Wanda Guimarães has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Very clearly, on the side of the Socialist Party, we reject what the CDS defends in this bill, and we do not only do so in harmony with what we have just approved in the 2018 Budget, we do so for a greater reason, which is in fact the observance of the rule expressed in the Labour Code in order that the Christmas allowance be paid only once and the holiday allowance, though fractionated, should be paid before the longer holiday period to enjoy. In fact, what this seeks to hide is an old thing, already in 2012 when Minister Vítor Gaspar intended to end both subsidies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u127	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u128	Because you couldn't end the two subsidies, you got this intermediate solution. So, what was it about? The ground for the abolition of the two subsidies was prepared, which is now continuing, the financial impact on companies was diminished, the collective bargaining was forged, claiming a higher monthly income for workers, and they were created, with this, the illusion of gaining a higher monthly income. These were virtual increases, in fact, which the right used to spread the brutal increase in taxes. in the desperate situation that occurred in the previous four years of government, it is obvious that these subsidies have served to mitigate the situation and that is what is at stake. Now, already in the State Budget for 2017, the PS was sensitive to the argument that a radical cut in monthly income could lead to a shock to families and from there we have opted for an intermediate solution, a balanced solution of 50 / 50 – 50 % in twelfths and 50 % of the value of subsidies. In fact, in 2018, in a normalized situation of return of income, unlocking of collective bargaining, defrosting of careers and awarding of various social benefits, nothing, in our view, justifies the approval of this bill. On the other hand, nothing now prevents 50 % of the amount of allowances from being paid in twelfths, according to the parties' agreement. What the PS does not admit is that on the pretext of a false wage increase they will withdraw rights to workers and continue to distort what labour law has already enshrined. In conclusion, there is no falsification of wage increases at the cost of payment of allowances in twelfths, largely affecting collective bargaining, a fair and realistic negotiation process. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u129	On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the dilution of the payment of the holiday allowance and the Christmas allowance had only one objective: its liquidation. What the CDS and PSD really wanted was the settlement of 13. the e of the 14. the month,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u131	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u132	...to hide a policy of wage cuts and tax increases.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u133	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u134	It was not possible, because the struggle of the workers... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u135	... and the proposal of the CFP in the State Budget had the ability to restore a right, and that is what actually bothers the CDS and the PSD. For everything that means rights replacement, we cannot count on the PSD or the CDS. It's life, we know that! Open... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] You are on the side of those who withdraw rights, the CFP lives well with the fact that it is on the side of those who restore rights and contribute to the development of the country. But, Mr António Carlos Monteiro, is there a question we still wanted to ask about the CDS proposal: does our country have a low-wage model? Here! Is that solved by diluting subsidies? Don't! Resolves with a wage recovery policy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u136	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u137	... in particular the increase of the minimum wage to 600 €, of defense of collective bargaining and of materials that exist only in the context of collective bargaining. [[PCP applause.]] The fight against low wages is not done by diluting subsidies, it is increasing...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u138	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u139	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I was saying, the fight against low wages is increasing the national minimum wage, defending collective bargaining, strengthening the payment of extraordinary work, shiftwork and additional work. But for that, we count on the struggle of the workers, we do not count on the CDS. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u140	On behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: To close this debate, I want to leave three very brief notes. First of all, the debates are what they are and not what they are meant to do. This debate was just about this: workers should or should not have freedom of choice, in working dialogue with the employer, to receive and calculate how they receive 13. o and 14. the month?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u142	That's a mistake!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u143	In our view, they can, must and must be of a permanent nature. in the perspective of the Left Block, the PCP, The Greens and the PS can not! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u144	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u145	In other words, what is at stake is the difference between those who think that workers and employers can agree on a different way to receive 13. o and 14. the month and whoever thinks they can't, they don't know, they're not capable or they don't want.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u146	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u147	That's what became very clear to the left: the mask fell. [[Protests by PS Member Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.]] In fact, they are instrumentalizing workers on party issues, but they are not interested in their freedom. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u148	We have thus reached the end of this second item on the agenda. The third point is followed, which consists in the general discussion of Bill No. 607 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The seventh amendment to Decree-Law No 132 / 2012 of 27 June establishing the recruitment and mobility scheme for teaching staff in basic and secondary schools ( CFP ), together with the assessment of draft resolution No 1174/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government improve the recruitment and mobility scheme for pre-school and primary and secondary education teachers ( BE ). To open the debate on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The public school of quality for all can only exist beyond the role and declaration of intentions, with valued teachers, in appropriate number and with working conditions ensuring compliance with the Basic Law of the Education System and the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. We remember that the former PSD/CDS government played an unmistakable role in the worsening of the illegal use of precariousness, in the cut-off of salaries and salaries of teachers, in the imposition of professional instability, in the weakening of public school. We do not forget that Decree-Law No. 83 -A / 2014 led to disrespect for professional graduation in the placement of teachers, there are teachers who have been exceeded in 900 places, nor that the real intention behind the non-opening of places in the grouping framework was precisely the non-binding of teachers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u150	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u151	With the review of the legal tendering scheme carried out in 2017, some corrections were made of negative points contained in the previous diploma. Despite this, there are still serious standards for teachers, standards that do not benefit the stability and development of public school. The ruin with the disastrous path followed by right-wing policy implies the need to go further and faster in solving the problems that are daily experienced in schools. That is why the CFP brings this proposal today to the debate, aware of the precise timetable we are going through. The binding is fundamental to the stabilization of the teaching body and to the dignity of teaching work. Thus, we believe that the current norm-work should evolve towards the automatic linkage in the career of all teachers who perform three years of service. The reality shows that the norm-work has encouraged precariousness, because the cumulative verification requirements are so demanding that they end up saying that few teachers are able to bind by this way.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u152	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u153	The CFP has always argued that each permanent job must correspond to an effective link. Therefore, we propose the elimination of all the limiting criteria of the norm-work, which prevent teachers from entering the career when they perform permanent functions, and the opening of vacancies to the national competition, by a graduated list, according to all the needs identified by the schools for full hours that occur for three consecutive years. The CFP also argues that it is necessary to ensure that there are no violations of the ordination criterion of professional graduation when it comes to the inclusion of teachers of the frameworks in the priorities of internal competitions and internal mobility, in order to avoid cases of unequal treatment among teachers. Other issues that we address go through the need for remuneration of teachers hired according to what is expected in the salary step corresponding to the time of service actually provided; the decrease in the size of the tables of the pedagogical area and the end of the obligation of career teachers without a legal component to be opponents to the internal competition. We know, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who are currently negotiating with the unions, in fact today in the Ministry of Education, but we believe that, in respect of the same process and without overthrowing it, the Assembly of the Republic today has the opportunity to also open the debate here, hear and seek solutions in particular for the many professional problems with which teachers and educators are discussing themselves daily in schools. PCP is available to do this. [[PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u154	You have the floor now, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Joana Mortagua.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u155	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For years, they have tried to convince the country that the quality of public school and the quality of education had absolutely nothing to do with the working conditions of teachers, with the working rights of teachers, with the concrete conditions in which they perform their role as teachers within schools. If there is something we learn is that it is not possible to mistreat teachers and, at the same time, to defend public school. They're incompatible. And today we also know that teachers have devalued both socially and in their pedagogical role within the school, so they have the free field to attack the public school. They did so in many ways: with the CAP (Cultural Action Plan ), with the separation between incumbent and non-holder teachers, with the requalification, with the increase of students per class, with the confusion between educational times and non-formal times, with the management model and with the degradation of the links. With this they managed to make the teaching class suffer, today, an enormous weariness, despite which every day they dedicate themselves to their students and their schools, in a clear movement of resistance to the attacks that were made in public school. But it also means that the teaching profession underwent and underwent great instability, because the school became dependent on precarious work. Fortunately, some of these serious measures have been mitigated by the struggle of teachers and also by the action of left-wing parties in this Parliament. One of them has to do with the mobility and recruitment regime of primary and pre-school teachers, which is not a small thing: it is only the regime that determines how more than 100,000 teachers are recruited, linked and distributed in all schools in the country. This regime was unfair and detrimental to the linkage of teachers, although it is today more mitigated and better, partly due to the negotiation of the Left Block with the Government in this State Budget, which has enabled it to improve the norm-work and establish another competition for extraordinary links of teachers. But we need to go further in this regime, not only because teachers demand it but also because the system needs this stability. The system needs this organization so that public school can work better. So today, when negotiations with the unions begin, we think it is an opportunity to bring justice to the teacher recruitment system and make some proposals to guide that negotiation. First of all, that the linkage of teachers is made with three or more years of successive contracts, complete or incomplete,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u156	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u157	...to be placed until the end of the first school period. Secondly, that professional graduation is considered as the sole criterion of ordination. Thirdly, there is an internal competition, external and internal mobility and for meeting temporary needs in 2018 and 2019 that resolves several injustices, including the wrong placement of a few hundred teachers this summer, who were known as « the injured of 25 August ». Fourthly, there is a significant reduction in the geographical dimension of the pedagogical area tables, so that we understand that teachers are not travelling cashiers and cannot be placed one day in the Vidigueira and the other day in Aljustrel, that the size of the pedagogical area frames is excessive and has to be reduced. Fifthly, a recruitment group of Portuguese gestual language teachers is set up. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is no quality school without a good competition system and there is no good competition system against teachers' rights. It is a very simple equation, which has been forgotten by many governments. What we leave today is a call to the Socialist Party to listen to the teachers' demands, but we also leave an opportunity to the right, which has made so many calls to dialogue and which still said here yesterday that it was in accordance with the teachers' rights to their career and the accounting of the time of service, to show that this is not just opportunism and that they are really concerned about teachers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u158	For an intervention by the Socialist Party, Mrs Maria Augusta Santos now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing Bill No. 607 / XIII ( 3. a ), submitted by the Portuguese Communist Party, and draft resolution No 1174 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) submitted by the Left Block. The matter now under consideration concerns the legal regime for the selection and recruitment of pre-school and elementary and secondary education teachers, which was the subject of a review just nine months ago. This very recent review was the result of an intense dialogue with the teachers' representative organisations, which allowed the correction of delays and even injustices, resulting from successive changes to the diploma, focusing on redefining the priorities of the internal competition, external competition and internal mobility. These amendments were the subject of stopped trade union negotiation and the result was a commitment that we all — teachers, students, parents — want to be stable. A new reformulation, over just nine months, with the proposed scope, will not contribute, we are sure, for the stability of teachers, as we all advocate. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group very well recognises the complexity of all the processes for the selection and recruitment of teaching staff. And, therefore, we know very well that it is impossible at the same time to make all the changes we want to be successful. It is not surprising, too, that the Government has announced that, in the coming academic year, an interim or advance internal tender procedure will be carried out which will not prejudice the multi-annuality of the temporary placements of the previous year. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u160	Faced with these realities, it would be incongruent to promote, in such a short time, new changes to the rules applicable to the competition procedures in question, creating an environment of legal uncertainty, insecurity for teachers, as well as for students and parents, beyond being unlikely. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, in view of the exhaustive analysis of the legislative initiatives under consideration, considers that the proposed amendments are not to be accepted because some, inexhaustible, others, contradictory, extemporaneous or even inconsistent with their legal framework. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group welcomes the measures that have been implemented by the Government, focusing on the continued appreciation of teachers and their professional stability. Therefore, and in an intense fight against teacher precariousness, only this year have linked more than 3400 teachers and, in the near future, so many others will. We know well how teachers are essential to educational success and we trust in their work. The teachers will always count on the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u161	On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Nilza de Sena has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : These two projects, the PCP and the Left Block, on the recruitment and mobility regime of teachers refer to matters that today are back at the negotiating table, at the Ministry of Education, after a round that was inconclusive, negotiation that was supported and recommended by all parties and that, in addition to the questions of careers and the counting of the time of service that the PS froze, was also at the origin of the amendments of this same recruitment and mobility regime of teachers introduced by this government and that the left very much applauded. So in a few months, we found that the parties now proposing criticize what they had recently supported. After an internal mobility contest which was completely disastrous, totally disrespected by the teachers, in which hundreds of teachers were banished from the picture away from home, without prior notice of the change of procedures, the Government's partners are now coming to amend their hands. I must say you don't understand how. In fact, they are matters on which the Government, after denying it, has finally recognized the error, then, in a prepotent and unilateral manner, to keep everything in a scandalous interpretation and without a solution in view. But, let us see, the proposal from the CFP aims by legislative means to impose the rules that Fenprof has failed to negotiate with the government. Don't stop being a contradiction! Even in the discussion of the State budget they defended negotiation and, after all, when the negotiation does not result, they return to the bill. Replace the negotiation! I heard you, Mrs. Deputy! It may even be an interesting number of double efforts but it does not stop being just a number! The proposal of the Left Block is, in its essence, extemporaneous and inconsequent and is also another number. It makes recommendations for negotiations which do not make sense, some of which are even endorsed in the current State Budget Act which the Left Block itself has adopted, in particular as regards the norm itself, or recommendations for negotiation in matters in which the Government finally, after proposals from Parliament, made a decision, as is the case for Portuguese gestural teachers. We ask the Left Block the following: do you recommend negotiating what? In short, we're talking about proposals that are a true smoke curtain. They wake up in the morning with the government and are outraged in the afternoon here at the plenary. This is throwing sand into the eyes of teachers, that is to deceive them and, as the PSD has always defended, we will not give the saying for not saying, we will not propose things that we cannot comply with and we do not want to substitute ourselves for negotiation, which is a responsibility of the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u163	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u164	I'm done now, Mr. President. Finally, I want to say one thing that the Portuguese know: the PSD does not embark on media numbers or easy populisms,... [[PCP laughter.]] ... doesn't promise what you can't do and, above all, the PSD doesn't only meet the present, has an integrated vision and a vision of the future. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u165	That's the best of the day!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u166	Mrs Ilda Araújo Novo, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u167	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With this proposal to amend Decree-Law No 132 / 2012, the CFP proposes several cash changes in a previous project which it submitted in 2015. The CFP aims to correct the points that classify negatives in that diploma and presents solutions for the recruitment, placement and linkage of teachers with a view to, and I quote, « completing professional, emotional and personal instability in the lives of thousands of families », and which, the CFP understands, « weakens public school ». With this diagnosis, it requires responsibility for this state of affairs, as it could not fail to be, to the former government — as always! It manifests a selective amnesic memory because it does not deliberately refer to the recent professional instability caused by the operation of this government, which supports, during the internal mobility contest in which incomplete hours for placement were not considered, as had always happened, for 11 years to this part, and without any legislative amendment justifying it and without prior notice to the manifestation of preference of teachers. But returning to the proposal under consideration, it is the CFP's understanding that it should facilitate the linkage of teachers, provide for mobility between recruitment groups whenever the teacher has qualifications for them, not only in competitive venues such as the limit of recruitment or renewal and, in terms of priorities, intends to equate teachers of school framework with the QZPs ( pedagogical area frameworks), no longer having priority of those about them. And so, it would become the criterion of professional graduation. The opening of all competitions would become annual and the succession of contracts concluded would cease to be in the same recruitment group and may occur in those for which the teacher has professional qualifications. These are some of the amendments proposed and questioned even by the teachers. So this parliamentary group also questions: does it forget the PCP and the Left Block that these amendments can give rise to the opening of vacancies that do not meet the real needs but, yes, merely conjuncural? What is the comparison between career teachers and the school framework with the QZP in the internal competition or internal mobility will occur by teachers of the QZP vis-à-vis the schools? What will be added to the budgetary implications? That these proposals for amendment to the diploma will call into question the pedagogical continuity that will create instability in the teaching body, with an impact on their professional, personal and family life? Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the CFP, in your own words, and I quote, « It is necessary to take measures that guarantee greater justice and to respond to concrete problems that have yet to be solved... » in order to «... ensure the stable and dignified functioning of the public school ». The CDS contrasts: Mrs and Mrs. Members of the CFP, it is necessary not to add to the problems already created by this government and by the parliamentary groups that support it, further destabilizing the teaching body that is the guarantor of the stable and dignified functioning of the public school! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u168	To close this point, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u169	Mr President, Mrs Maria Augusta Santos, it is true that the revision of the legislation in 2017 allowed the correction of some injustices but not of all and the unions have pointed this out. So what we say is that we had an opportunity here to have this debate, until the unions are so active in negotiation that neither the Assembly of the Republic often has an opportunity to discuss this matter, so here would be an opportunity to do so. Mrs Nilza de Sena, do the partners come now to amend mobility issues? Madam Member, we have had broad intervention on this matter and it is not now. We have presented projects many times, we have not now agreed on this issue, contrary to the PSD and the CDS, which they have done is, successively, to attack the rights of workers, to worsen the situation of teachers in public school and to make the situation of public school worse.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u170	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u171	Moreover, Mrs Deputy: PSD has a consistent vision and action of attacks on workers' rights and public school. And, Mrs Ilda Araújo Novo, the CDS has, at least, epic amnesia by ignoring the history of PCP intervention on all these matters, which is not now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u172	Thank you very much, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u173	The CDS, yes, has had a real amnesia in what is the need to defend the rights of workers and public school, but that remains with you, does not remain with the PCP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u174	Mrs. Members, we have entered point four of our agenda today with the joint assessment, in general, of the projects of lein. 540 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Strengthen protection rules against exposure to electromagnetic fields derived from high voltage lines by amending Law No 30 / 2010 of 2 September ( The Greens) and 684 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establish a deadline for the regulation and strengthen the Law on Protection against Exposure to Electrical and Magnetic Fields derived from Lines, Facilities and Electrical Equipment (first amendment to Law No 30 / 2010 of 2 September 2010) ( BE ). Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Once again, the Greens Ecological Party brings to the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic the matter of exposure to electromagnetic fields derived from very high voltage lines. Like the ladies and gentlemen. Members know, there are several studies that associate exposure to electromagnetic fields with the risk of cancer, including leukemia, in children. It is true that the studies are not all convergent in their conclusions on this matter, but it says the principle of caution which, in these cases — and even in cases of scientific uncertainty — must be carried out in order to avoid risks. And it is precisely the application of the precautionary principle that the Greens consider that it must be well present in this area, in particular in the definition of those drawn up in the very high-voltage lines. In addition to this issue, there are populations subject to the proximity of these traces of high-voltage lines that have concrete experiences, including constant disturbing noise caused by these lines that generate a recurrent lack of rest to those who are subject to them and avoidable neurological diseases. This is a recurrent complaint from populations that live alongside very high-voltage lines. The truth is that, in this framework, the national electricity network has, over the past few years, imposed a set of very high-voltage lines, from the rest of the country outside, which are against the principle of caution and which, insistently, move on, or very close together, to urban agglomerates, devaluing all this heritage but, essentially, endangering the health of the populations, and often without doing what is asked them to study alternative maps. The Greens have already presented legislative initiatives on the subject here, but in the 11th Parliament, after a joint discussion, the Greens project that established specific levels of subjection of populations to these levels of high voltage lines was rejected, and a PSD project was approved, which resulted in Law No. 30 / 2010, which subject its application to regulation. This regulation has never been implemented again, neither by PS governments nor by the PSD/CDS government in the last legislature, and therefore it means that it has no practical applicability, due to lack of regulation. What do the Greens say? On the one hand, they have introduced a specific deadline for regulation of this Law and define the maximum levels of human exposure to electromagnetic fields and, on the other hand, specify that the prudent patamares defined in the law for schools, health units, homes of the elderly, etc. , must address distances that do not put health at risk and that for concrete tracing projects a binding opinion should be determined by municipal chambers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u176	Mr Pedro Soares of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The law that should protect people and goods from electromagnetic effects, particularly high and very high voltage lines, is to be regulated seven years ago. Although there is a Law for this purpose, the rules to protect people remain inapplicable. With the Law to be fulfilled, in 2012 all situations of violation of the limits of human exposure to electromagnetic fields should have been identified; in 2013 a national plan for correcting all situations that exceeded the maximum limits of human exposure to electromagnetic fields should have been developed; within five years the entire high and very high voltage network should be located and adapted, in order to meet the maximum limits of human exposure. Well, what's going on, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? In 2012 the Law was not fulfilled. In 2013 the Law was not fulfilled again. In 2023, the Law will not be complied with unless the Government urgently regulates Law No 30 / 2010. It is, then, in this sense that the bill that the Left Block presents today, here. It becomes even more urgent this need for regulation of the Law when we are told by the authorships of the municipalities affected by new projects of very high voltage lines, such as Barcelos, among others, in the Mininho region, that the REN agents returned to the ground to try to convince landowners to authorize the installations of the tower support to the high voltage lines. There are two very clear sides in this issue: the side of the population and economic activities, which have the right to be protected from the dangers, risks and negative impacts of high and very high voltage lines; the other side, also very clear, is the unwarrantedly determined by the interests of the REN, the National Electric Network, whether the least possible costs, even at the expense of well-being, the rights of populations, schools, health centres and other economic activities. And we say, quite clearly, unjustly, because it is possible to minimize the negative effects of electromagnetic fields with the definition of alternative tracings, with the search for new tracings, or even with the burial of lines, as has been done at various points in Europe and also in our country, in some cases by determining the courts. The situation is so much worse when the Assembly of the Republic itself, this sovereign body, which should have an instrument for the proper and political monitoring of all procedures relating to the planning of high-voltage lines, installations and equipment, is prevented from doing so because it cannot use it because this instrument, which is the report of the state of the environment, which is published every year, is obliged to have one of its chapters on this subject but that chapter has never been included in that report, particularly in the last one we have access to, which is the 2006 report. The continuation of this situation is incomprehensible and regrettable. We already understand, and we know, the strength of energy-related companies. What's that strength? What force is this that makes you good with others and bad with you? How is it possible for a sovereign body to continue to deal with this situation? Respect for the rights of populations and territories, but also for respect for ourselves, the urgent regulation of the Law on the effects of installations and high voltage lines is required. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u178	Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS recognises the importance of the subject which we are discussing today, although the novice effects on public health are not convergent, either as regards scientific conclusions or as regards technical conclusions, at the level of the studies that have already been carried out. It is not, as everyone knows, a scientific opinion or evidence on the consequences of exposure to radiation from high and very high voltage cables and the effects they may have on people, but everything indicates that, at least, some harmful effects are a reality and therefore we must, of course, prevent these same effects. The simple risk that this will happen, the possibility of harmful effects for the people, demands of us, and demands of the legislator, measures to protect the citizens of these possible and probable harmful effects. Therefore, for all this, the CDS voted favourably, together with the PSD, the Law in force, Law No. 30 / 2010, which it deserved, by the Socialist Party, the PCP, the Left Block and the Greens, a vote of abstention. [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] The honourable Member abstained from voting on this law. It was your vote! Stay away from me! We are, of course, available to improve this law that we have voted in favour, from the moment that the networks are not implemented, acting at the level of the planning, with the creation of corridors that allow them to be removed, thus avoiding affecting the populations, but also in cases where the networks already exist, promoting, if possible, their burial, especially in consolidated urban areas, creating, of course, conditions for such burial to exist. In conclusion, I leave here, once again, the idea, already repeatedly presented by the CDS, of the creation of a sectorial planning plan for high and very high voltage lines, because we understand that this can be a good way for the development of these networks, thus preserving public health. We are, as if inferring from my words, available to, as a specialist, in the Commission, actively participate in the improvement work of Law No 30 / 2010 in order to guarantee a fundamental right, which is the right to the health of citizens. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u180	Mr António Topa, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD presented Bill No. 61 / XI in 2010 ( 1 ). ( a ) defining the protection against exposure of electrical and magnetic fields derived from high-voltage lines, installations and equipment as provided for in Article 2 ( 1 ). the ‘competiting the government by decree-law the levels of human exposure admitted to electromagnetic fields, of those lines, installations and equipment. Do not keep on seeking. ” This bill was approved giving rise to Law No. 30 / 2010 of 2 September, which aims to guarantee the principle of caution, knowing that human exposure to certain levels of electromagnetic and electrical fields of high and very high voltage lines has negative effects on the health of citizens. However, until today the regulation of the Law referred to above has not been carried out. Today, we have in mind in the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic the discussion and voting, in general, of the projects of lein.os 540 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) of The Greens, and 684 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) the BE, which essentially aims at the regulation of Law No 30 / 2010, defining a period of six months for this to take place after the adoption of those draft laws, which the PSD follows, following the unanimous adoption of draft resolution No 416 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) in October 2016. Law No 30 / 2010, in Article 2 ( 2 ). the, prescribes that the regulation of levels of human exposure to magnetic fields should involve particularly prudent patamares for the situations of health units and equivalents, educational establishments, elderly homes, asylums and related areas, parks and children's playgrounds, residential buildings and facilities and sports equipment. We cannot follow the proposed amendment to Article 2 ( 2 ) in the BE bill. the, which provides that the particularly prudent patamares go through the express obligation to use alternative routes to airlines, i.e. the installation of lines below the aforementioned establishments, as well as also extending their scope, to protected areas, to the National Ecological Reserve (REN) and to the National Agricultural Reserve (RAN). This would imply that most of the existing lines up to 2023, according to the Law, had large interventions and investments, since there was virtually no territory where the lines should not be installed in the basement. This obligation and extension of situations to protected areas, RN and RN is not reasonable at the outset, implying their inclusion in investment plans in the energy transport network as a result of aggravating tariffs to consumers and the country's tariff debt, and in general pleasing the interests of the RN. The Greens' bill on this matter is more reasonable, stating that particularly prudent patamares should address the distances that do not put health at risk and only in the event of non-compliance with those minimum distances, for duly substantiated reasons, will there be the possibility of installing the ground lines. On the other hand, the same draft law of The Greens does not extend the situations to areas of use of alternative routes to airlines, i.e. lines installed in the basement, provided for in the draft law of BE, protected areas, REN and RAN. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u182	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to address a first word to the Greens Ecological Party for bringing the issue of regulation of the limits of human exposure to magnetic, electrical and electromagnetic fields to the Assembly of the Republic. In fact, we are talking about a Law adopted in 2010 which provided for a significant set of interventions, in particular starting with its regulations by the Government, which has not yet been implemented until now for seven years. I believe that the proposal here on the table that the Government should proceed to the regulation of this law within the prescribed time limit is essential so that once and for all it can intervene with regard to the setting of levels of human exposure to electromagnetic fields derived from high-voltage lines, of course, with the aim of responding and complying with the precautionary principle to safeguard the well-being of populations. throughout all these years, there continues to be concern on the part of populations with the continuation of installations of these high and very high voltage lines. at that time, we stated that the principles that must respect the installation and maintenance of high-voltage and high-voltage electricity transmission networks must be reconciled with the country's development and electrification needs and the proper planning of the environmental and urban territory, ensuring, of course, the safety of the population. These are the principles that, for us, must be underlying this plan. We note that there has not been a survey, such as the previous Law, of all the existing locations in the country that violate the limits, nor the plan for the conversion of those that would have to be converted, according to the Law, namely the lines that are close to health units, homes, schools, parks, buildings, other spaces. Therefore, in good time, this initiative of the Greens Ecological Party is relevant so that, once and for all, one can do what previous PS governments, PSD and CDS governments have not done, and we understand why, in fact, there is a set of great interests on the part of economic groups that do not want to be confused, but the security of populations must be first. I would like to put another aspect to express deep doubts about the proposal that the Left Block brings here, in particular the amendment to Article 2 (2). o. I would therefore like to ask the following question: has the environmental impact assessment been made of what is being proposed? Environmental assessment of what it means to disintegrate soils in areas of the National Ecological Network and in areas of the National Agricultural Network has been done and what are these same impacts? I believe that this is something that is important to have on the table in consideration of this proposal which is presented here. I want to conclude by saying the following: at the time of the discussion in 2010, we considered that the conversion of the lines and all the changes that had to be made had to be assumed by the operators and could not be impacted on the users. This proposal from the CFP has not been approved, but we believe that there is a fundamental aspect: the precautionary principle to ensure the well-being of the population and to ensure its safety. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u184	You have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Vilhena.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u185	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Law No. 30 / 2010, which is now intended to change, addresses two types of problems. One, which is the main one, has to do with safeguarding public health and the other, which, although reduced, should, from my point of view, be taken into account, aims at the setting of high and very high-voltage lines in the landscape. On the first, that of health, both the law in force and the exposition of reasons that incorporated the bills that gave rise to the approval of Law No. 30/2010 and also these proposals of The Greens and the Block are based on a principle that seems perfectly appropriate: having contradictory studies on the harm to health, the precautionary principle should apply. This is a principle to be taken into account essentially in relation to the possibility that these electromagnetic fields may cause serious diseases, such as cancer, but — there is no doubt that major studies are not necessary — there is a consequence, which is the noise produced by these infrastructures, which causes discomfort and contributes to the lack of quality of life of citizens living close to these lines. Specifically to each of the proposals for amendment to this Law, we believe it is appropriate to introduce a time limit for the production of regulations appropriate to the implementation of the Law, which should, in fact, already be ready perhaps since 2013. It also seems to me that the alternative installation in the basement can be envisaged and recommended in new projects near the areas identified in the Law or in the correction of situations that interfere in residential areas, with due weighting, and also that the authorities and populations should be heard in relation to the new maps. As far as part of the Block's proposal is concerned, it seems to me somewhat unrealistic to already place the obligation to bury all the lines in the areas described in the Law, as well as to add this operation in the protected areas — National Ecological Reserve ( REN) and also in the National Agricultural Reserve ( RAN ) — where, in my view, in these areas, human health is not concerned. Nor do I see, in the explanatory statement, the presentation of any urgent reason for this initiative. In any case, we believe that the proposals have positive points and have all the conditions to be approved in general and can be harmonised and worked on in the specialty. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u186	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u187	Mr. President: Two final points, very fast. Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco, The Greens abstained in the vote on the draft which resulted from Law No. 30/2010 and, by the way, very well because what we were saying at the time came to be verified. That is to say, to refer to the government the regulation and the definition of exposure levels had to come up with this. Your party has been in government for four years and has never regulated this law. Therefore, what we should have done at the time was to approve Bill No. 16 / XI ( 1. ( a ) ( The Greens), which had already determined precisely the maximum limits for human exposure to electromagnetic fields, and we had had the problem solved. But no! We are here, seven years later, saying that the law is not regulated. And now there come The Greens to present a bill so that it is urgently regulated. Therefore, when one asks for responsibility from the different parties, in fact, it must be assumed, but it is assumed differently. A final point relates to the bill of the Left Block. In fact, there is a note with which we find it very difficult to agree, which is the obligation to use alternative routes to airlines, i.e. the interpretation we make is the obligation to bury in protected areas. My question is this: Does the Left Block want to dig out protected areas? Well, we actually have to reflect on this issue, because the problem is where there is a lot of human concentration. Therefore, we do not agree with this part of the Block project and, in the field of specialty, we will obviously have to discuss and make a editorial that is fruitful for the objectives that we intend to achieve.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u188	Mrs. Members, we have thus concluded the fourth point of our agenda with the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.os 540 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( The Greens) and 684 / XIII ( 3 ). a ) ( BE ). We move on to the fifth point, with the joint discussion of petition No 265 / XIII ( 2. a ) — They request the adoption of measures to carry out works at the High School José Falcão ( Luís Miguel Figueiredo Nunes et al.) and the draft resolutions 647 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government carry out short-term restoration, modernization and preservation of the high school building José Falcão, in Coimbra ( CDS-PP ), 664 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the rehabilitation and requalification of the José Falcão High School in Coimbra ( BE ), 678 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government carry out the rehabilitation and requalification of the José Falcon High School in Coimbra ( PS ), 679 / XIII ( 2 ) in the short term. ( a ) — On the urgent rehabilitation of the José Falcon High School in Coimbra ( The Greens), 682 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends the urgent requalification of the José Falcon High School in Coimbra ( PCP ) and 1169 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake short-term rehabilitation and requalification of the José Falcão Secondary School building in Coimbra ( PSD ). To present the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u189	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the 5380 petitioners who have subscribed to the petition — some of whom are present here in the galleries —, to which the CDS associated draft resolution No 647 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ), which essentially recommends to the Government a thorough and urgent intervention at the José Falcão High School in Coimbra. It is an iconic school, is heir to Coimbra High School, one of the first three high schools in the country. He has, today, 800 students of the 3. the basic and secondary education cycle, but it still has the ability to accommodate more, so physical conditions are given to it. The building is degraded, needs works and never had intervention in its 80 years of life. The complaints come from the students, come from the education officers, come from the teachers and employees and refer to the poor state of the buildings and the difficulty of the educational practice in them and tell us - several examples: the need to put buckets to contain rainwater, ceilings and pillars with fragments to fall, tiles to take off the walls, degraded trailers, visible beams challenging the stability of the building and also the pipes and the electrical system need to be renewed. It has been the direction of the School to ensure timely interventions to deal with these more urgent situations, always using its own revenue and has already been asked for protection — the various safeguards — the need for the recovery of the building. It is true that the School did not integrate the School Park programme during the PS government, nor was it intended to intervene during the previous government with the stay of the troika, but is also not now included in this page shift in the announced requalification programme of 300 schools financed through Portugal 2020, which is also confirmed by the School Park itself, in response to a request for information from the Commission. This is strange because, more than once, the Ministry has stated to be, and I quote, "to make efforts to invest in this requalification" without, however, advancing either with dates, with money or with signs of work. We know that there is already agreement on intervention in the gym and petitioners are afraid—and well! — that this intervention is seen as a solution to the whole problem when, in fact, it is not.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u190	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u191	I'm done now, Mr. President. We contacted the parent association this week and we know that there is no sign of works. The petitioners, when they were heard in the Commission, expressed their desire that the pressure that has been developed would be realized. For this pressure, the CDS contributes to this draft resolution, aligned with the other parliamentary groups. This call is only missing even the government, which we hope will be here this time. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u192	To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u193	Mr. President : I would like to greet all petitioners and all petitioners, students and former students of this Coimbra School, including our Vice-President. We know that it is thanks to them that this struggle has been heard in Parliament. We know that every day the direction of the School, its students, teachers, employees and parents struggle for the School to continue faithful to its immense heritage of 180 years of formation of successive generations for knowledge and citizenship. That is why we are speaking here in Parliament about the commitment of the Left Block to this just struggle. Because forgetting the José Falcon High School is to forget a lot of people and there is no balance in the public accounts to justify it. The blankets that students take from home to be able to be in the classrooms in winter, the little moisture infiltrations throughout the building, the degradation of laboratories, the constant patches in the electrical network and sewers, the impracticability and insecurity of the gym are the price of lack of structural intervention in a building that is 80 years old. It is incomprehensible that a building which has the status of public interest and, more than anything else, which houses 800 students has not been included first in the different phases of the School Park's intervention programme and, more recently, in the requalification programme of 200 schools through the financing of Portugal 2020. This is why the Left Block recommends that the Government, as a matter of urgency, initiate the process of rehabilitation and requalification of the José Falcon High School, so that its students and students, teachers and teachers and their employees and their employees are entitled to safe and adequate facilities for the requirements of a high quality teaching and learning process. There is a consensus in this House on the need to requalify the José Falcão High School. It is good for this consensus to be reflected in the urgency with which the Government must initiate these works, for the benefit of the students, for the benefit of the public school, but also for the sake of the cultural heritage and this building of public interest in Coimbra. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u194	To present the PS draft resolution, Mr. Pedro Coimbra has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u195	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me to greet and health the professionals, parents and students of the José Falcão School, some of whom, today, accompany us here in the galleries, and also health all petitioners and all petitioners. Mr. President, the José Falcão School is a relevant school in the national context, not only because of its extraordinary architecture, but also, above all, because of its successful educational project that has been maintained in this way over the last few years. This school has passed over the great bulk of our contemporary history — of culture, arts and politics. The state of degradation reached the building is regrettable: it rains inside the school and the basic security conditions are even at stake. The PSD and CDS Government lost a great opportunity to ensure the investment needed for the retraining of the School by not making its mapping in order to ensure funding from the Community funds. It is certainly not unlike the fact that it is known and even recognized the aversion of the Portuguese right to public school.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u196	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u197	The current government, limited by the reasons laid down in access to Community funds, but attentive and committed, only and only with the State Budget Park at its disposal, has already announced an investment of €450 000, to be made shortly. [[Rice from CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] We know that it is not enough for everything, but we will do so as soon as the technical parts are completed for this purpose. It is a help, in sure that it is a first phase of investment and that others will follow. [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u198	Sir, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u199	I will finish, Mr. President. It is also a distinguishing mark between the Government of the Socialist Party and the Government of the right before us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u200	To present the draft resolution of The Greens, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u201	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first words are for, on behalf of The Greens, to greet the thousands of subscribers of this petition, especially those who are with us today, and a greeting which naturally extends to the Association of Parents and Educational Officers of the High School of José Falcão. Built in the 30th century, the building of the José Falcon School was created according to the modern European conceptions of high school space, which complied with strict standards of school hygiene and corresponded to the requirements of a pedagogical plan that included the areas of Humanities, Science, Official Arts and Physical Education. It happens that, during its 80 years of existence, the building of this school has never suffered a fundamental intervention, currently in advanced state of degradation and presenting a set of problems, namely: the lack of air conditioning, which makes it unbearable for students both in winter, because of the excess of cold, as in summer, given the high temperatures; the infiltrations and humidity, which are visible throughout the building, coming, including raining in some rooms and in the pavilion; the floor and the pavilion itself present cracks, compromising the safety of the users; the tiles are falling into parts of the school; and the plumbing and the electrical installation, which are still of origin, naturally jeopardizing the safety of the school community. That is, this School, attended by about 1000 students, teachers and assistants, does not present the minimum conditions of comfort and security, compromising the students' own learning and the work of teachers and assistants. In view of the above, it is clear that the José Falcão School needs urgent works of rehabilitation and requalification of the building, which are indispensable to the realization of the right to education and also as a way to provide dignified conditions to the entire school community, in addition to preserving the memory and heritage of this former high school. in this sense, The Greens today present for discussion a legislative initiative with a view to the urgent rehabilitation of the José Falcão School, thus seeking to meet the petitioners.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u202	To present the draft resolution of the PCP, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A warm greeting, on behalf of the PCP Parliamentary Group, to the petitioners represented here in the galleries by the Association of Parents and Educational Officers, by the Directorate of the José Falcão Secondary School and, I believe, also by the Association of Students. I also welcome your fight in defense of this school, so relevant to the city of Coimbra. [[PCP applause.]] The PCP is familiar with the situation of the José Falcão High School, either because of its local organization or because of the visit that the Parliamentary Group recently had the opportunity to carry out and which served as the basis for the construction of the project we present here. The truth is that, despite the situation being signaled and identified, with the Ministry of Education, for a long time, nothing visible has been done, and we are at the end of 2017. The works did not move forward and the problems worsened. And, with the bad time of the last few days, which also affected, and much, the city of Coimbra, there has become, even as we have information, plenty of water flowing through the walls of the classrooms. This is not an acceptable situation for those who live, for those who work, for those who study, for those who are at that school. In response to the PCP's question about the project of intervention for the works of requalification of the José Falcão School, the Government stated that, as the need for this investment was signalled, the PSD/CDS Government did not caution the mobilization of Community funds for the execution of the works. The CDS spoke here about the troika, we talk about political options,... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] ...because, we remember, the previous government preferred to suspend the works of the School Park but keep the salaries of the administrators to be paid. This is the truth! If this qualifies the inaction of the previous Government in this matter, you cannot, ladies and gentlemen. Members, to justify the lack of intervention of the current PS Government, because in addition to the fact that the most urgent benefits and conservation works have not been initiated, as it has been announced — unless there is any news in the coming days, but we are close to the end of the year — the obligation to maintain the conditions of schools and the school park is up to the government, and schools cannot be left without answers to the problems they are experiencing. And, in this case, it is a monument of public interest, with a particular implantation in the city of Coimbra, so there are added obligations of intervention. This without speaking on the priority issue, which are the safety and health conditions for those who study and work at the José Falcão High School. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what the CFP requires is that the Government assume its obligations and urgently undertake the necessary retraining of the José Falcão High School. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u204	To present the draft resolution of the PSD and to close the debate, Mrs Margarida Mano has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u205	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I greet the petitioners and members of the community of the José Falcon School, who are in the galleries and at home. All schools have their history and the High School José Falcão, heir to the High School of Coimbra, begins the history of high school education in Portugal, being one of the first three high schools created in 1836 by Passos Manuel. in it studied presidents of the Republic, men and women of culture and science, great poets and writers, musicians, rectors, thousands of men and women. With almost 1000 students, the School has seen this number increase, fruit of the quality and diversity of the educational project, which promotes good results and an almost zero index of indiscipline. The value of the school is recognized: it is the second public school with better national results. The building, dating back to 1936, is a reference to modernism in Portugal and has a status as a monument of public interest. in its eight decades of history, the building never had a background intervention. Today, in this school, there are infiltrations and rains in classrooms, having, as was described here, an obvious deterioration. Today, parents and heads of education, general council, director, teachers, employees and students are united in this cause, as we could verify in our visits to the School. The situation forces a sense of urgency. Urgency in the immediate authorisation of the recuperation of the gym, which we have been promised in February this year, with an assured budget to start this year, but whose process will still be pending in the Ministry of Finance; urgency in a substantive intervention throughout the building, which, because necessary, was planned in the last phase of the School Park programme, meanwhile suspended in 2011 in the face of the country's financial situation, intervention, which, five years back, becomes even more necessary, but this Government understood, on a political option, not to include in the review of the contract with the School Park, in 2016, why it was not subject to planning. The memory of the former students who attended this school and, above all, the future of the students who attend it today, as well as of the coming students, deserves us and demands responsibility for intervention not soon, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, now! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u206	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus reached the end of our agenda, so we will move on to the voting period. I would ask the services that operate the electronic quorum verification system so that we can register. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records the presence of 195 Members, to whom PS Deputies Margarida Marques and Vitalino Canas and PSD Deputies Feliciano Barreiras Duarte, Joana Barata Lopes, Miguel Morgado, Pedro Passos Coelho and Pedro Pinto, making a total of 202 Members present. There is therefore a quorum of deliberation. Let us then begin the voting, beginning with vote No 456 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — In spite of the death of Landeg White, submitted by PS and subscribed by PSD Members. I would like to ask Mrs Idália Salvador to read the above-mentioned vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u207	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died early in December Landeg White. Born in Wales, in 1940, Landeg White was based in Portugal since 1994, and among us dedicated himself to the translation and dissemination of Portuguese literature, in particular the work of Luís de Camões, of whom it was one of the greatest researchers in English, and in 1997 proceeded to a contemporary translation of Les Lusíadas, which he deserved academic and editorial recognition. Graduated from the University of Liverpool, after a childhood and adolescence passed between England and Scotland, Landeg White spent a significant part of his professional life at Commonwealth higher education institutions (University of Western Indies, University of Malawi, University of Sierra Leone and University of Zambia) and later worked at the Center for Studies of Southern Africa, at York University, in the United Kingdom, where he produced several works in the areas of African Studies and Caribbean Studies. In Portugal, he taught at Open University and published the already mentioned and award-winning translation of Les Lusíadas to English, as well as numerous works of original poetry, essays and fiction, revealing his deep knowledge of Portuguese reality and history. He would return to Camões, being his translation of the camonian lyric published in 2008, to which he also added several studies on the linguistic challenge of the translation of the work of Camões. At the same time, he also devoted his attention to the Portuguese presence and the passage of Camões by Goa and India, with particular focus on the literary production of the poet in that territory, describing his pioneering role as "the first European poet to cross Ecuador" and to benefit from the cultural exchanges caused by the Portuguese expansion in the East. The disappearance of Landeg White thus makes the academic and literary Anglo-Portuguese landscape more poor, but remains, in his work, a fundamental legacy for the deepening of secular bilateral cultural relations with the United Kingdom. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, expresses condolences to the family, friends and colleagues of Landeg White, paying tribute to its work of research, translation and dissemination of Portuguese literature. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u208	I report that the widow and the son of Landeg White and a representative of the UK Embassy are in the galleries. Mrs. Members, let us then vote on vote No 456 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — In spite of the death of Landeg White, submitted by PS and subscribed by PSD Members, and which has just been read. [[The vote was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] The following vote No 455/ XIII ( 3 ) shall be taken: ( a ) — Condemning the position of Martin Schulz with regard to European federalism and the automatic expulsion of Member States from the European Union by the PSD, for which it was requested to be the subject of debate and a period of two minutes for each parliamentary group. First of all, Mr Duarte Filipe Marques has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u209	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD here today presents a vote of condemnation for the statements and the proposal that the former President of the European Parliament, Martin Schulz, leader of the German Social Democratic Party, recently put forward negotiations for a large coalition in Germany. I recall that Martin Schulz was President of the European Parliament, the institution representing the peoples, which must fight for solidarity between peoples and, above all, for great solidarity between the Member States. Its proposal is not unpublished with regard to federalism, it is questionable — and that we all respect — and each one may have his own opinion. What is unacceptable and that this Parliament must condemn — as in the past it has condemned here, with the support of all, actions and omissions of Member States which violated the fundamental principles of the European Union relating to human rights — is that it proposes and defends itself — coming above all from an ex-President of the European Parliament who therefore has a special responsibility — that those Member States which do not agree to a certain way of deepening the European Union should automatically be expelled from the European Union. This is unacceptable! No Member State can be expelled from the European Union — that is unpublished! — not wanting to continue in an alternative integration process. Federalism is questionable, each one will have its position, but if we join together to condemn Member States who have violated human rights and violated fundamental principles of the European Union, this House and this Parliament cannot allow the fact that the leader of a large European and former President of the European Parliament, who has repeatedly come to Portugal to fight for European solidarity, to be the first and the one who has the unprecedented measure of wanting to expel a Member State who does not want to pursue a certain path of integration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u210	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u211	This is political blackmail against the Member States! This is an irresponsibility and a great violation of the fundamental principles of the European Union. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u212	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Martin Schulz's statements deserve the unequivocal rejection by the Portuguese Communist Party. however, with the presentation of this vote, the PSD aims to identify a supposed contradiction between these declarations and the past and the current construction courses of the European Union. The PSD seeks to contribute to the illusion that the European Union process has always been « inclusive, small steps and where no Member State has been blackmailed to take certain steps ». however, reality shows that the process of European capitalist integration has always deepened precisely on the basis of blackmail, the threat of exclusion and isolation over peoples, as well as the ostracization of all those who do not accept this integration and its unacceptable terms. The reality also shows that the PSD has always supported this process of integration which calls into question the sovereignty of States such as Portugal and which creates and concentrates powers in supranational federalist institutions dominated by the great powers of the European Union. Martin Schulz's statements do not go against the so-called'spirit of the European Union', as the PSD intends to make us believe. They are a result of the true spirit of the European Union, which is increasingly urgent in fighting and denouncing. The CFP Parliamentary Group does not accept to praise the process of building the European Union and what it means in terms of aggression against national sovereignty, the imposition of relations of domain and dependence, the attack on social and economic rights and militarism, on the pretext of condemning positions, which are, in fact, consistent with the same process. We do not accept under any pretext the whitening of the nature and objectives of the European Union. unlike the PSD, the CFP rejects both the so-called European integration process as it has been so far, as Martin Schulz's statements and its coherent future development.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u214	I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u215	I will finish, Mr. President. The peoples of Europe are not bound by the choice between one or the other. The peoples of Europe are fighting for another Europe, for cooperation between States, sovereigns and equal rights, with respect for democracy, social progress, peace and solidarity among peoples. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u216	For an intervention, Mrs Margarida Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u217	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I must say that when I read this vote, my first reaction was outraged. Indignity, because what I felt, when I read this vote, was exactly what I felt when the European People's Party, the political family to which the PSD, tried to influence the negotiations either of this Government of the Socialist Party with the parties that support it, or for the constitution of this government. And the PSD tried to do so via the European People's Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What the PSD is doing today is trying to interfere in a negotiation between parties that does not concern us.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u218	So agree!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u219	This is the negotiation for the establishment of a large coalition in Germany. Martin Schulz is not President of the European Parliament. Martin Schulz is President of the SPD ( Sozialdemokratische Partii Deutschlands ) and this Congress has set out the general lines for negotiation or not with Mrs Merkel.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u220	And the PS agrees. Is that it?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u221	It is therefore a shame for the Portuguese Parliament to interfere in the constitution of a government in a country with which Portugal maintains diplomatic, economic and political relations,... [[PSD protests.]] ... a Member State of the European Union. And this, regardless of the content of the proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u222	But in Hungary you can! Be consistent!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u223	We are not discussing the content of the proposal, because, even with regard to content, translation, the interpretation that the PSD makes of this proposal is an abusive interpretation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u224	On behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u225	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This year has been a very successful year in spurious, hostile statements, I would say even silly, by socialist European officials. We are still reminded of the statements made by the President of the Eurogroup, Mr Dijsselbloem, which are quite affluent to the countries of southern Europe, and particularly to Portugal, the same Mr Dijsselbloem who after these statements even deserved Portugal's favourable vote to remain in the Eurogroup as President. Today we are also confronted with statements by an ex-President of the European Parliament, who says something that is unacceptable for his sectarianism, something that is unacceptable because it represents the position of someone who in Europe says the following : « Either they are with us or they leave the European Union ». But, of course, this is repudiated, it is worthy of us to say that we do not agree with a matter like this, even if the PSD vote is a bit of a sui generis, particularly in the way of criticizing the statements of a mere political leader. People are free to say even nonsense, but we cannot forget that this is a nonsense that can have consequences. I see here the Member of the Socialist Party and even doubt whether it is the Portuguese Socialist Party or a German Socialist Party,... [[PS protests.]] ... because it defends German positions so vehemently that it seems more concerned with the protection of the SPD than with the protection of the legitimate interests of the Portuguese. I didn't want to stop making this note. [[PS protests.]] But there is one point that, for us, is indeed very important, and we wanted to make it clear in this debate. We do not accept that Europe, which must be a Europe of inclusion of difference, which must always be a Europe of respect for the states and peoples of Europe, is a Europe of taxation, a Europe in which one thinks it is normal to say that "or the Member States adhere to what we want or are expelled from the European Union".
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u226	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u227	And that deserves our most vehement repudiation, which we want to make very clear here. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u228	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u229	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block strongly condemns Martin Schulz's statements. It is the voice, the face and it is part of the core that imposed austerity in Europe and prepares itself to impose the same plan of authoritarianism. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD does not want to be taken seriously with this vote. The PSD thinks European politics is a little joke...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u230	Look who's talking!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u231	... and believes that the votes of the Assembly of the Republic serve their small provocations,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u232	What a disembarkation!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u233	...that are tweets about European policy. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u234	But do you vote in favour or not? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u235	Mrs. Members, the PSD is not ashamed to come here to present this hypocritical vote, which uses the Assembly of the Republic for mere political provocations. A vote that says... [[PSD protests.]] So, the ladies. Members of the PSD now think that the European construction process has always been an inclusive process? Oh, my God! The gentlemen. PSD Members believe that no Member State —... [[PSD protests.]] ...and listen carefully, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, what they wrote to have the notion of what they wrote! — has it ever been blackmailed or threatened in the euro area? Oh, my God! The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, who are you kidding? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u236	Is that a siress? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u237	Who are you kidding? Oh, my God! Don't you have any memory? Who do you want to fool with this exercise and this provocation? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] It wasn't the ladies. Members who were in the government, along with the CDS, when the European Central Bank, the European Commission and Martin Schulz threatened Greece? [[Congratulations from BE.]] Was it not Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque who was sitting in the Eurogroup, applauding alongside Mr Schäuble, who expelled the Greek Minister of Finance from the Eurogroup? [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] It wasn't the ladies. Members who belonged to a coalition that imposed austerity on a country that was on the verge of a humanitarian crisis,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u238	Now, take the fruit!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u239	... overcoming their democratic and sovereign decisions? Oh, my God! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it's a provocation, it's a joke! [[PSD protests.]] It can't be taken seriously! And don't count on us,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u240	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u241	...to take the Assembly of the Republic to your European political twitters and to your provocations in the Assembly of the Republic. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u242	Do you vote in favour or not vote? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u243	With no further entries, we shall proceed to the vote on vote No 455/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Condemning Martin Schulz's position on European federalism and the automatic expulsion of Member States from the European Union, submitted by the PSD. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of the PS and the CDS-PP, votes against the PS and BE and abstentions from the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] Mrs. Rubina Berardo asked for the floor. To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u244	Mr President, it is to announce that Mr Ricardo Batista Leite and I will present a statement of vote on the vote that has just taken place.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u245	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Ascenso Simões asked for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u246	Yes, Mr President, it is precisely for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u247	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to vote No 457 / XIII ( 3. (a) — Condemning the ethnic cleansing of the Rohingya minority executed by the Burmese army, submitted by BE and subscribed by PS Members. I ask Secretary Sandra Pontedeira to proceed to your reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u248	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Data released last Tuesday by the medical organization Without Borders estimate that at least 9000 people of the Rohingya minority died in Burma between 25 August and 24 September. More than 6700 of these people were murdered, including at least 730 children. The report submitted by the Doctors Without Borders makes a portrait of the horror. Among children under 5 years of age, the report shows that 59 % were shot dead, 15% were burned alive in their homes, 7% were beaten to death and 2% died in landmine explosions. The report also denounces the death of civilians in acts of sexual assault. Despite these frightening numbers, Sidney Wong, director of the Doctors Without Borders, warned of an underrated mortality: ‘ The number of deaths is probably underestimated, since we did not analyze all refugee camps in Bangladesh, and because the investigations do not account for the families who have never come out of Burma. ’ The wave of violence that started at the end of August in Burma corresponds to ethnic cleansing promoted by the Burmese army and led to the flight of 647 000 refugees. The conditions of refugees in Bangladesh have already been described by Unicef as ‘ hell on earth. ’ however, the Doctors Without Borders warn of the threat that may represent the forced return of these refugees to Burma through the repatriation provided for in an agreement signed between the two countries. This extreme violence against a religious minority has genocide contours. This crime against humanity cannot be committed before the silence of the international community. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, condemns the ongoing genocide in Burma and calls on the international community, the United Nations and the Portuguese Government to develop all diplomatic efforts to ensure the protection of the Rohingya minority in Burma and in refugee camps in neighbouring countries. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u249	Thank you, Secretary. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall now vote on draft resolution No 1164 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to São Tomé and Príncipe ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We continue with the vote on draft resolution No 1170 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the counting of all time of service for the purpose of remunerative valuation resulting from career progression ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1171/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the valorisation of non-teachers in public school ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 1175/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Assessment of the consequences of the merger process of public administration careers in schools ( BE ). The vote on the three points of this draft was requested, which is why we first voted on point 1. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP, against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] We shall vote on point 2 of draft resolution No 1175/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, against the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PS and PS.]] We shall vote on point 3. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall then vote on draft resolution No 1180 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Counting of all service time for career progression ( The Greens ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mr. Pedro Roque, have you asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u250	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the draft resolution which has just been voted on as well as draft resolution No 1170 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u251	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Manuela Tender, have you asked for the same word?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u252	Yes, Mr President, it is for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u253	It is also registered, Mrs. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1172 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — proposes measures to combat the precariousness and effective recruitment of specialists in public school ( CFP ). The vote was requested separately from the three points of this motion for a resolution, so I shall begin by putting point 1 to the vote. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from the PS and PS.]] Let us now vote on point 2. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, against the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PS and PS.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 3. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We then voted on draft resolution No 1173/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the establishment of recruitment groups corresponding to the teaching functions of specialized technicians ( CFPs ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1176/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Valuation and dignity of the specialized technicians of public schools ( BE ). In this case too, the vote has been requested. Let us first vote on point 1. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We are voting together now on points 2 and 3. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1179 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Combating contractual precariousness of specialists in public school ( The Greens ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall vote for an application submitted by the PS, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without voting for a period of 45 days, of Bill No 104 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — transposes the amendments introduced by Directive ( EU ) 2015 / 1794 to Directive 2001 / 23 / EC and Directive 2009 / 38 / EC as regards seafarers. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall, in general, vote on Bill No 105 / XIII ( 3 ). (a) — Authorizes the Government to create the national system of vessels and seafarers. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall now vote on the proposal for an amendment tabled by the CFP to Article 2 ( 2 ( b ). o ( Sense and extension) of Bill No 105 / XIII ( 3. ( a). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] Having adopted this amendment, the vote on point (b) of the bill is detrimental. We shall vote on the proposal for an amendment tabled by the CFP in Article 2 ( 2 ( e ). the (meaning and extension) of the same bill. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote in the general speciality and end of Bill No 105 / XIII ( 3 ). (a) — Authorizes the Government to create the national system of vessels and seafarers. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] We shall then vote on a request made by the PS, asking the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees for a period of 45 days without a vote of Bill No 106 / XIII ( 3 ). (a) — Approves measures to promote equal pay for women and men by equal or equal value of work. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall now vote on draft resolution No 1168/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the presentation to Parliament of the new action plan on the promotion of equality in the labour market and the fight against wage inequalities ( PSD ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, The Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from the PS and the CFP.]] We proceeded to the vote of two applications submitted by the NAP, asking the Committee on Labour and Social Security to be discharged without a vote for a period of 45 days, respectively, of Bill No 693 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves measures to promote equal pay for men and women by equal or equal value ( NAP) and draft resolution No 1177 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to promote equal pay for men and women by equal or equal value of work ( NAP ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We are now voting on draft resolution No 1181/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — To promote equal pay between women and men ( The Greens ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will generally vote for the project of lein.o 667 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — 45. the amendment to the Criminal Code, qualifying the crime of murder committed under a dating relationship ( PSD ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Low to 1. the Commission. We proceed with the general vote on Bill No 688 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Includes murder in the context of dating in standard examples concerning the crime of qualifying homicide ( NAP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Low to 1. the Commission. Also in general, we will vote for Bill No. 689 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Qualification of the murder crime committed in connection with a dating relationship ( 45. the amendment to the Penal Code ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Low to 1. the Commission. We shall generally vote on Bill No 690 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the Criminal Code, making the murder in the context of violence in the qualifying homicide ( BE). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Low to 1. the Commission. The general vote of Bill No. 692 / XIII ( 3 ) was followed. ( a ) — Done at 45. the amendment to the Penal Code, strengthening the legal-penal protection of journalists in the exercise of functions ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] This diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. We will now vote for Bill No. 691 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Amend the Criminal Code by making the attacks on journalists public in the performance of their duties or because of them ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 916 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends the recovery of State control and management of TTCs with a view to the guarantee of the universal public postal service ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, the PS, CDS-PP, PCP and the Greens and votes in favour of BE and PAN were rejected with votes against the PS, PS, CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 981 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — to defend a quality and universal public postal service and to reverse the privatisation of TTCs ( The Greens ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1040 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — In defence of the postal public service for the recovery of public control of CTTs — Post Offices of Portugal, SA ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1178 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote an assessment of the contractual responsibilities underlying the granting in force between the State and the CTT ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u254	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u255	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u256	Mr President, it is to be announced to the House that the Left Block Parliamentary Group will present a joint declaration of vote on draft resolutions 981 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ), 1040 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and 1178 / XIII ( 2. ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u257	Be registered. Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on Bill No 686 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Consecrates the worker's freedom of choice in the receipt of the Christmas allowance and the holiday allowance in twelfths, making the first amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, which approves the Labour Code ( CDS-PP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the Member of the PS Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u258	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u259	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u260	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau. The bill we just voted for was rejected, but it could not even have been voted because it did not meet the period of public discussion to which the law requires. So we could not have made this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u261	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. In any case, this could have been said before the beginning of the diploma debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u262	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u263	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u264	It is to announce that I have already submitted to the services a declaration of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u265	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We are now going to vote on a request by the PCP, asking the Education and Science Committee to be discharged without a 45-day vote of Bill No 607 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The seventh amendment is made to Decree-Law No 132 / 2012 of 27 June establishing the recruitment and mobility scheme for basic and secondary school teachers ( CFP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on Bill No 540 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strengthen protection rules against exposure to electromagnetic fields derived from high voltage lines, amending Law No 30 / 2010 of 2 September ( The Greens ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This diploma falls to 11. the Commission. Then we will generally vote for Bill No. 684 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establish a deadline for regulation and strengthen the law on protection against exposure to electrical and magnetic fields derived from lines, installations and electrical equipment ( first amendment to Law No 30 / 2010 of 2 September ( BE ) ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and PS, in favour of BE and the NAP and with abstentions from the CDS-PP, the CFP and the Greens.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 647 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government carry out short-term restoration, modernization and preservation of the José Falcão Secondary School building in Coimbra ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 664 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the rehabilitation and requalification of the José Falcão High School in Coimbra ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall then vote on draft resolution No 678 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government carry out the rehabilitation and requalification of José Falcão High School in Coimbra ( PS ) in the short term. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall now vote on draft resolution No 679 / XIII ( 2. ( a) — On the urgent rehabilitation of the José Falcon High School in Coimbra (The Greens). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 682 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends urgent retraining of José Falcon High School in Coimbra ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1169 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake short-term rehabilitation and requalification of the José Falcão Secondary School building in Coimbra ( PSD ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u266	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u267	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u268	Mr President, it was not clear whether draft resolution No 1174 / XIII, of the Left Block, went down to the Commission without a vote or not. I would like Mr President to be able to clarify this.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u269	Mrs. Deputy, there's been a lapse. We voted on a request from the CFP and, as I thought the draft resolution we were going to vote on next was also from the CFP, I skipped that vote. In this way, we will now vote on the draft resolution of the Left Block. Let us therefore vote on draft resolution No 1174/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government improve the recruitment and mobility scheme for pre-school and primary and secondary education teachers ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1091 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the reforestation of the National Lawn Forest ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the NAP and with abstains from BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote on draft resolution No 1102 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends sustainable reforestation and public management of the Leiria pine ( BE ). The CDS and the CFP requested the joint vote on points 1 and 2 after points 3 and 4 and finally on the other points.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u270	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u271	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u272	I also request that point 2 be voted separately.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u273	That'll be it. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us begin by voting on point 1. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]] Let us now vote on point 2. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against the PS and abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall then vote together on points 3 and 4. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PS, BE, CFP, The Greens and the NAP and the CDS-PP abstention.]] Let us vote on the remaining points. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, the vote on draft resolution No 1104 / XIII ( 3 ) follows ( 3 ). ( a ) — Reforestation, valorisation and defense of the Leiria pinhal ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1127 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government submit a reforestation plan for the Leiria pine, ensuring the maintenance of the characteristics of its origin ( CDS-PP ). This draft resolution will be voted on point-by-point. Let's start by voting point 1. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote on point 2. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the PAN and the Abstaining from BE.]] We shall vote on point 3. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the PAN and the Abstaining from BE.]] We now vote on point 4. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and against BE, PCP and Les Verdes.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 5. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP and PAN and votes against the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall then vote on point 6. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of BE.]] Finally, we shall vote on point 7. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and against BE, PCP and Les Verdes.]] Mrs. Members, the vote on draft resolution No 1142 / XIII ( 3 ) follows ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government draw up and implement an integrated plan for the reforestation of the National Forest of Leiria ( PAN ). At the request of several parliamentary groups, we shall disaggregate this vote as follows: first we shall vote point 3, then point 6, following point 8 and finally the other points. Let us then begin by voting on point 3 of the draft resolution. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on point 6. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PS and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We now vote on point 8. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the PAN and the Abstaining from BE.]] Let us vote on the remaining points. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, please sit down, because we are voting. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1153 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop the necessary actions for the recovery and recovery of the National Lawn Plant ( PS ). The PS requested a separate vote on points 1 and 2. We shall therefore vote on point 1. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote on point 2. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u274	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u275	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u276	Mr President, it is to be announced that the CFP will present a statement of vote on the draft resolutions we have just voted on concerning the Leiria pine.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u277	Be registered. Mrs. Members, let us turn to the overall final vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works, on the proposal for a law No 83 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — establishes the status of the company recovery mediator. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We are now voting, in general, on the speciality and in the overall final vote, on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works on the proposal for a law No 84 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the extrajudicial scheme for the recovery of undertakings. I note that the Government has withdrawn its initiative in favour of this text. Let us then vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] The general vote on the text of the replacement text, presented by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works, on the proposal for a law No 85 / XIII ( 2 ) is hereby followed. ( a ) — Approves the legal regime for the conversion of credits to capital. I also report that the Government has withdrawn its initiative in favour of this text. So let's vote for it. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the CFP and the Greens and abstentions from the PSD, BE, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, Secretary Emília Santos will take note of an opinion from the Ethics Sub-Commission, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u278	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the request of the Single Section of the Court of Justice of the District of Lisbon, Case No. 333 / 14.9TELSB, the Subcommittee on Ethics, of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr. João Soares ( PS ) to make a written statement as a witness within the scope of the said cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u279	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Next, Secretary Emília Santos will report the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u280	Mr. President and Mr. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, Bill No. 697 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amends territorial boundaries between the Freixo de Espada da Cinta / Mazouco e Ligares ( PSD ) and draft resolutions 1184 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt additional measures to mitigate drought ( PSD ) and 1187 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Eliminating legal and administrative problems and blockades that make life difficult for enterprises ( PSD ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-16.u281	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the next plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday, 19 December, at 3 p.m. and 30 minutes. I draw attention to the fact that the meeting starts at 15 and 30 minutes and not at 15 hours, as usual. the agenda contains several points. First of all, we will appreciate draft resolution No 570 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government entrust the Ombudsman with the task of coordinating and monitoring the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child in Portugal ( PSD ). Secondly, we shall proceed to debate draft law No 696 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Change the territorial limits of the parish of Vila das Aves and Lordelo, the municipalities of Santo Tirso and Guimarães ( PS ). Thirdly, we will discuss Bill No 175 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Determines the reopening of the possibility of requiring the reintegration into its functions of State servants under Decree-Law No 173 / 74 of 26 April ( BE ). Fourthly, draft resolution No 1078 / XIII ( 3 ) will be discussed. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government exceptional support measures for farmers affected by drought ( CDS-PP ). Finally, we will discuss draft resolution No 829 / XIII ( 2. ( a) — proposes the implementation of a programme of deburocratisation and support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work. Good weekend to all. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 54 minutes.]]
