ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. Before we get on the agenda, Secretary Duarte Pacheco will read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, Bill No. 410 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Ensure that the seal tax affecting rates charged by card-based payment operations falls on the financial institutions ( amendment to the Seal Tax Code approved by Law No 150 / 99 of 11 September ) ( BE ), which falls to 5. the Commission and draft resolution No 667 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government partially exempt the payment of contributions to social security for producers of cow's raw milk ( PSD ), which falls to 7. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u3	Mrs. Members, let us start the agenda with the thematic debate required by the CFP on job insecurity in the Public Administration. The CFP and the Government will open the debate, which will have two rounds. As usual, we will be flexible in relation to times. If any parliamentary group or the Government wishes to use, in the first round, time of the second round may do so, since it will be discounted in the second round. To open the debate, Mrs Rita Rato of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For several years and even decades, but with particular responsibility for the last four years of the PSD/CDS government, the exception has become the rule, the precariousness in the air that breathes and an effective contract in a mirage. Always supported in the false logic that « it is more worth a stage than nothing, a false green receipt, a term contract, a scholarship», tried to impose precariousness as an alternative to unemployment. Life has proved that the alternative to unemployment is not precarious, but employment with rights, and that the fight against precariousness must be placed at the level of the State's commitment, as in the past with the eradication of child labour.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u5	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u6	In fact, I'm afraid he's been defending him for 10 years. The use of precariousness is far beyond economic options in management, supports an ideological view of constructed society not in the foundation of dignity, but in the exploitation of work. With the seriousness that in recent years, and in particular by the hand of the PSD Government / CDS, the public sector has competed directly with the private by promoting the worst logic of precariousness. Mr President, Members, between 2010 and 2015, according to data from the Public Employment Statistical Bulletin, will have left the public administrations (central, local and regional) around 78 000 workers. In response to this bleeding, the functioning of public services has been ensured by workers who, despite responding to permanent needs, do not have an effective link, are not linked to services or integrated into a career, nor have access to fundamental rights such as holiday and Christmas allowances, protection in disease and unemployment. It is unfair to workers and it is detrimental to the functioning of services. In the 2016 State budget, on a proposal from the CFP, the survey was approved in the Public Administration, in the business sector of the State and in the authorities of the situations of « use of employment-inclusion contracts, internships, research grants or service contracts ». Outsourcing, temporary work and part-time work cannot be left out. In the 2017 State Budget, it was approved that « following the survey(... ), the Government shall submit to the Assembly of the Republic by the end of the first quarter of 2017 a programme of regularisation(...) of the precarious links in the Public Administration for the situations of staff performing functions that correspond to the permanent needs of the services(... ) ». It also provides that « for the purpose of filling the places referred to in the previous paragraph, the Government shall consider selection criteria that value professional experience in the performance of the functions of the place to be filled, especially by the experience of those who have taken up the job », and that this process should « have its beginning until 31 December 2017 ». Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report submitted by the Government reveals that there are many thousands of workers with precarious links in the central administration, authorities and business sector of the State. This will not be different from the fact that the last process of regularization of links took place in the 90s of the last century. It is therefore to establish justice that a permanent job corresponds to an effective bond, and therefore the binding of all workers who respond to the permanent needs of public services is urgent. Specific solutions must be found, sector to sector — in schools, in the National Health Service ( SNS ), in companies in the state business sector, in local authorities, in justice, in social security, in finance — but in order to solve the problem of precariousness and not to find justifications for leaving everything in it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u7	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u8	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the eradication of precariousness and employment with rights in the public and in the private are essential conditions for the development of the country. The alternative to unemployment is not precarious, it is right employment and the state must be a reference to society as a whole.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u10	Precautionaryness, both in the public and in the private, is a commitment of democracy, in valuing work and workers and in fighting for a more just and developed country. Precautionaryness is synonymous with individual and collective backwardness in a whole country, because employment with rights is at the same time a condition and factor of progress, justice and social stability. Precautionaryness is an instrument for aggravating the exploitation of all those who are in this situation and of entire families who have been moving from situation to position for decades. In law and in life, a permanent job must correspond to an effective work link. This is one of the central struggles of our democracy, this is a commitment from the CFP. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u11	To open the debate by the Government, Mr. Secretary of State for Employment, Miguel Cabrita, to whom I welcome.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The XXI Constitutional Government established in its Government Programme, as a priority, the promotion of employment, decent and quality employment and the fight against job insecurity, in particular taking on an express commitment to progressive and phased eradication of precariousness in the Public Administration. The National Reform Programme also clearly establishes the importance of valuing the exercise of public functions, as well as the need for a rejuvenation of the Administration, essential in the medium and long term for the objectives of modernizing the State, training its institutions and improving the quality of public services. These objectives are already being achieved, for example with the elimination of wage cuts in recent years or with the replacement of working hours. But the question of the adequacy of the legal ties of people working in the Public Administration is a component of unequivocal importance and, in fact, an imperative of the effort to value and dignify work in public functions and also the role of the State in relation to precariousness, in this case as an employer. That is why, in fulfilling its Programme, the Government has committed itself to making, during 2016, a lifting of non-permanent recruitment situations in the Administration, so that for the first time we have an approximate portrait of different precarious situations in the State, so that we have a solid basis for a process of regularization of situations that are to be identified as irregular. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not talking about a new problem. We are talking about a well-known problem that has been dragging on for many years and has been worsening successively, particularly acutely in a recent period. A problem which, after the great regularisation effort of the Government of Antonio Guterres 20 years ago, was again gaining dimension, with a resolution postponed for various reasons. But this was often a devalued problem—when not even denied—like what has happened to the questions of precariousness in its entirety. Now, in order to combat a problem, it is necessary to recognize its existence. And we have a problem of precariousness, we have a problem of precariousness in the state itself. Unfortunately, relevant sectors of our society and democracy will not yet have fully internalized that the issues of precariousness in the State, in particular, are an issue that needs to be addressed in front of us and that we must collectively find the means for its resolution. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. in recent years, strong constraints have conditioned the administration and public services, which have been reduced effective, almost veiled the possibilities of strengthening frames, leading to situations of heavy overload and almost rupture. The decapitalisation of the public sector clearly limited the response capacity of a wide range of services and exposed the pressure to fill immediate pressing needs through equally immediate and not rarely precarious solutions. The report recently presented expresses the situation that we found on 30 June 2016 and thus fulfils the first phase of our commitment: the removal in different sectors of the Administration of different forms of non-permanent recruitment. It follows the identification, ministry ministry, entity to entity, on a case-by-case basis, of which contracts should be of another type and situations need effective regularization. This identification will be made by two-party evaluation committees, with representatives of the Ministry of Finance, Labour and each of the ministries and with the involvement of trade union representatives. All persons who are in situations of non-permanent employment and who consider that this is not the regular situation will have the opportunity to present their situation to these committees on a case-by-case basis in order to see their case assessed. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the following phases of this process are known, are already being outlined and will allow us to give body, and faces, to the compromise we have assumed: a clear policy of progressive elimination of the use of precarious work in the public sector as a way to fill long-term needs in different public services. The State Budget Act of 2017 sets out the time scales for this process. Until the end of the first quarter, the Government will present in this House a proposal for a law on the extraordinary programme for regulating precarious links in public administration. Until the end of October 2017, they will be mounted and running the structures that will carry out this work. A complex, delicate work, but of greater importance to the people involved, to the workers, to the public services and to the state as an employer and as a guarantee of legality also in relation to labour matters. It is that regularization of inappropriate contractual links is a fundamental part of the Government's overall strategy to promote balanced and fairer labour relations. That is why this is, above all, an effort to value the work in the Public Administration, an effort to honour the commitment to make the State itself a promoter of best labour practices, also as an employer. The replacement of the dignity of the work passes, must also pass through the employer state. That is the meaning and purpose of our commitment and our policy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u13	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's start the first round. Mrs Carla Barros of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: We start this debate by making it clear that the PSD does not identify itself with the attempt to opportunism and political propaganda carried out by the CFP and the Government in this regard in the field of combating the precariousness and integration of public administration workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u16	The living proof of this protagonist and of this political propaganda is precisely the fact that the Minister of Finance has been removed from the leadership of this process and has been called Minister Vieira da Silva to the leadership of this process of integration of employees of the Public Administration, when we know that integration into public employment is an exclusive matter of the sphere of the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u17	Very well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u18	There's only one government!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u19	That is why, Mr Secretary of State, we are alerted to what is already well known about what is intended with this fight against precariousness. With regard to the work that the Government has already said it has already begun, we must point out at this stage of the debate three shortcomings which we consider essential, but the Government can still correct some course of action in relation to the road ahead and thus improve the process it is going to take. The first failure was the incomprehensible delay in delivering the report... [[Protests by the Secretary of State for Employment.]] It looks like a secondary aspect, but I'll be there by now, Secretary of State. As I was saying, the first failure was the incomprehensible delay in delivering the report, which should have been delivered in October but which was delivered only in February. However, we could point this out in the background if the report had fallen well on those who were its proponents. The Left Block and the PCP say that those 116 000 identified workers still need to add more. And, let us know why, Minister Vieira da Silva also says that he will start this work without having a number on which he will leave, i.e. there are no numbers to start this work. So, Mr Secretary of State, what you have to do right now is to clarify the concept of precariousness. After all, what was the point of this study? We want to take this moment to know which workers will be excluded from this process...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u20	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u21	...and to which areas of the Public Administration is that the fight against precariousness will not come. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, in a second and not least important failure, what I would like to point out is the treatment that you have given to the representatives of the workers in this process. It's true! The representatives of the workers were aware that the diagnosis was completed when the government was already negotiating solutions with the Left Block and the PCP at the closed door.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u22	Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u23	I can't believe I'm defending the unions!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u24	And don't say no, Mr. Secretary of State, because you know it is. Moreover, the news that has come to the public about the plight of workers'representatives shows that you have begun this process badly and that you have not respected the commitment to collective bargaining in 2017. Read this commitment that the Secretary of State has signed. If it were the Public Administration, I would know, Mr. Secretary of State! [[PSD Members' laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u25	All right! It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u26	A third failure, and no less important, is that story of the government that governs the contrary. You are very well embodies that story of the government that governs the contrary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u27	What? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u28	Don't admire yourself, Secretary of State. It is that the government assumes to combat precariousness but increases it by creating 12 500 jobs for long-term employed workers, from the beginning of government until the end of December 2016.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u29	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u30	It's true! This represents only — I repeat, only — an increase of 22 % in terms of future contracts.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u31	Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u32	To rule on the contrary is also to go to Brussels and commit to European human resources institutions and not to honour that commitment.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u33	What? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u34	That's it, Mr. Secretary of State. You're very admired, but that's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u35	How can I not be admired? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u36	That's the truth! And, Mr Secretary of State, to govern on the contrary, it is also you who assume the integration of public administration officials without a set of policies and reforms with a view to real administrative modernization, a reform that motivates workers more, a reform that creates the services of the fastest public administration,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u37	A reform that allows more than a few to be fired!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u38	... a reform that allows more answers to citizens and businesses. That's why, sirs. Secretary of State, I wanted to tell you the following...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u39	This is a rally to Dr. Maria Luís Albuquerque.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u40	Mr President, you are going to let me finish the speech. Mrs. Secretary of State, I would like to say to you this: with regard to the policy of real reforms which the previous government has carried out, you have not been able to take advantage of anything. The gentlemen have returned, turned back, turned back. Nothing has been done well, they have not been able to learn from the good examples of the previous government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u42	Good examples? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u43	What you have done and have brought in response to these reversals, you know what it was, Mr Secretary of State? It was creating more precariousness! And the precariousness does not stop increasing. It is on such record levels that the Public Administration has never known. Mr. Secretary of State, I've said everything. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u44	Madam Member, as initially said, the time spent will be discounted in the second round. Mr Luís Soares of the PS Parliamentary Group now gives the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government: « In recent years, there has been an attendance in the proliferation of irregular situations in the Public Administration, whose quantification is neither easy nor peaceful. These irregular situations now cover the most various forms: certain term contracts that have exceeded the time limit for which they have been concluded, task contracts and maturities which, from the beginning or at a later stage, are in subordinate form, long-term acquisitions of services, verbal adjustments and others, with many of them in common the so-called 'green receipts' (...). In many cases, these situations aim to satisfy the permanent needs of the services and often, continuously, have been extended for several years; in other cases, the provision of service has experienced interruptions, many of them aimed at exceeding the limits of the law and creating an appearance of discontinuity and not permanence of necessity. The use of this employment practice is unsustainable: in terms of legality, in terms of morals and in terms of the dignity of the State, as an employer, and of the citizens, as workers. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]] The text I just read, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not mine, nor is it today. It is the preamble to the decree signed by Antonio Guterres, which resulted in the integration of some 40 000 precarious officials of the State, between 1996 and 1999. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, when the Socialist Party, in 2015, enrolled in its Electoral Programme and consequently in the Government Programme the objective of limiting the use by the precarious state of work did not invent the wheel. Already in 1996, in a Government of Antonio Guterres — and of which António Costa, current Prime Minister, has established the central objective of giving public employment dignity, recognizing the rights of State workers and, above all, of those who have long held a permanent role in the service of the Public Administration, without however that this legal bond is appropriate, stable, as it should be. [[P.S.'s applause.]] At a time when the right hand is merely exercising its mandate by trying to dig into differences, recognised in the parties that support the government ; at a time when the right hand treats the accessory as essential, as it has already become clear today, only by shooting at the idea of who is protecting the area and shooting at ideas that are absolutely subsidiary ; at a time when the right hand treats the accessory as essential, it is fair to recognize the schedule of the Portuguese Communist Party on a subject which today, as in 1996, will change the lives of thousands of people and, above all, because this allows once again the parties who defend the stability and dignity of public employment and the private employment of the parties who are against public officials and who defend the idea that it is worth more a precarious job than having no employment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For the Socialist Party, the fight against precariousness is a crucial line of intervention of the multiannual strategy to combat precariousness that has already been drawn up in the 2016 budget and is based on a publicized timetable. We have a first phase, already completed, of lifting temporary work situations in the state, there will be a second phase of identification of needs and a third phase of extraordinary regularization of precarious workers. If there were any doubts about what the parties on the right are defending in relation to the Portuguese Public Administration and public officials, this after the attack that was carried out between 2011 and 2015, with the unilateral decision to increase the working time for 40 hours, with the disproportionate cuts in the revenues of public officials, in an attempt to make temporary cuts become definitive, with the law of the requalification and the redundancies encapsulated, Pedro Passos Coelho and the PSD, on this subject, have already told what they were coming to clarify their positions. It was clear in this debate that the PSD is against the end of precariousness in the Public Administration. It voted against the integration of precarious workers into public service. And you voted against, ladies and gentlemen. Members, because the right feels that regulating the labour market is a sign of less competitiveness. [[P.S.'s applause.]] You voted against, ladies and gentlemen. Members, because it defends the idea that social protection for workers is a sign of rigidity at work. He voted against because they understand that stability in the bond is accommodation. It was precisely to contradict this view of society that the left have joined and that the Government of the Socialist Party governs. It governs not only to reverse the policies of the previous Government, as it did in the first year of its term of office, resting at 35 hours, returning incomes, eliminating the regime of requalification, but also to meet the goals, as it has accomplished. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Goals that in the past have justified the inevitability of policies that have attacked workers' rights and dignity, goals that have not yet been met. The Government and the Socialist Party rule with a clear agenda: to reverse the evil that has been done and to do what has not yet been done. Restoring justice, returning dignity to the work of public servants, valuing the role and importance of Public Administration, is also done, and much, when precariousness is progressively eliminated, on behalf of workers, but also on behalf of Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u46	It is the time of Mrs Joana Mortagua of the Left Block Parliamentary Group. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This can be a historic process if, at the end of it, we can say that there is no longer a weakness in the Public Administration and that the Public Administration has set the example. But for that, this process must be done well. From the beginning, the Left Block has taken on the objective of combating precariousness. It's in our DNA, it's in the DNA of the Left Block the fight against precariousness. That is why we are going to be demanding that this process be done well and that the Government and this majority do not miss the opportunity not only to comply with the agreement that the Government has signed with the Left Block, but also, and more importantly, to fulfil the rights of these workers — nurses, teachers, trainers... — for whom the State has turned out to be the worst boss of all, and, above all, to fulfil our rights. When the government claims that these workers are temporary, what it is saying is that our collective rights as a society are not permanent. When there are more long-term contracts in education than in all local administration, what the government is saying is that we have public services in time, that our rights are in time. And it is true that in Portugal, in a very recent past, there were those who wanted to convince us that our rights were in the long run and that the Constitution was only transitional. PSD and CDS tried to do that. So now they may well want to enter this debate, but the truth is that the debate about combating precariousness is foreign to the PSD and the CDS, because for four years we have tried well to alert them. The problem is that we spoke in Portuguese and PSD and CDS only listened in German.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u48	Because of you!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u49	He was a foreigner!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u50	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u51	They didn't understand when we were alerting about the problem. Are there almost 120 000 temporary links in the state? There is, yes! But are they spontaneous generation, daughter of management? Are they spontaneous generation? There were 80,000 employees unless... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mr. President, when I can continue and the time I'm not using has been discounted... [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u52	Please continue, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u53	Listening to your own voice is important! I know you don't like to hear! There were 80 000 public servants less than during the period of the troika. Do you think these needs have ceased to be or have been met by precarious workers? There are responsibilities here. What the PSD and CDS did to bind these precariouss was zero. They've never done anything! They will now try to say that this integration is at the same time too radical and insufficient. But we're not here to solve the paradoxes on the right, we're here to solve the country's problems. And the future of public services also depends on how we now deal with public administration precariouss, how we deal with public services now. We need guarantees in this process. We need the assurance that no one is left behind and that there is no ceiling: all precariousness will be linked. These are the guarantees that the precariouss want and that the Block requires. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u54	It is the turn of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : The CDS considers the question of precariousness at work a serious problem that affects many people in Portugal, especially the younger ones. But for this debate to be serious and for you to understand what PS, Left Block and PCP want, these parties still have much to clarify. Unless you're facing another scene. For the CDS, the report should take into account the reform of the State which this Government announced. You don't! We probably have services with less employees and services with more employees, but we have no answer to that in this report. On the other hand, it was good for them to explain the delays. The left-wing majority agreed that the report should be completed in October 2016 ; it was released only on February 9, 2017. A report that's just preliminary. After all, the process only starts on 31 October, after the autarchic elections, i.e. one year after the deadline they had negotiated—and this if there is no further delay—to be completed until 31 December 2018. It is appropriate to ask: will we have the strange coincidence that we are concluded on the legislative elections? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u56	And now, do the Left Block and the PCP accept, or not, the diagnosis made by the government in the report? It seems to the Government that 116 000 are the maximum number of staff who can be integrated. The Left Block and the PCP want to add all the workers of the companies that provide services to the State — then they are more than 116 000. What are we staying on? It's good to clear up what you want.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u57	You don't understand, you don't even want to understand!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u58	The government says it wants to solve the problem of precariousness, but at the same time it increases the number of precariouss, i.e. creating more precarious ones, created more than 12,593 precariouss than those that existed, for example, in the time of the PSD government — and this is only the number of contracts to be completed. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Finally, how will they fulfil the commitment made in Brussels by Minister Mário Centeno that, for each of the two staff members leaving, only one would enter? In 2016, not only did they not comply with this rule as they increased the number of public officials:...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u59	But, after all, were there contracts or not? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u60	It's a paradox!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u61	91,000 went out and 96,000 went in. They're numbers published yesterday. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] We will now be faced with what was the criterion established in Brussels, in more than 50 724 employees than those committed to Brussels. In fact, I imagine that might be another « mutual perception error». Perhaps it was important that these questions were clarified and that they had a clear answer because otherwise, unfortunately, the CDS will have to conclude that PS, Left Block and PCP are playing with precarious workers in the Public Administration. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u62	It is the time of the PCP Parliamentary Group. Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: We have already seen that, in this debate, the PSD and the CDS have no other participation than to disagree and to give us half a dozen out-of-date phrases, so many are the responsibilities they have in the precarious situation to which they have arrived, particularly in the Public Administration. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u64	We have here with us exhibitions of teachers who have been in some cases with contracts every year for more than 20 years without having a link to the state.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u65	The PS has plummeted!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u66	Did you realize it was the PS that crashed? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u67	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to disagreeing, at least let us talk. I know that you do not want to participate in the debate, but at least let the debate run with a minimum of urbanity on the part of those who are actually concerned about the problems and want to help solve them, which is not your case. [[PCP and PS applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u68	That one now!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u69	We've got human dramas that shouldn't be the reason for this, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We have teachers who have been hired for 20 years, teachers who in some cases walk hundreds of miles daily to the schools where they were placed. We have at the Ministry of Education 26 133 professionals hired, of which 3000 are operational assistants, and the vast majority are teachers hired, in many cases, many years ago. There is the case of a teacher who, at the age of 40, has already gone through 24 schools — that is unacceptable both from a human point of view and from the point of view of the most basic logic of the functioning of services and institutions. We have, at the level of scientific research, doctors living in scholarships for 20 years. Even today, a report from the Renaissance Radio reported on a case of these, an investigator at the Institute of Agronomy living in professional scholarships 20 years later, when he should have a scientific job with stability. We have, at the Faculty of Fine Arts of the University of Lisbon, 40% of teachers hired as precarious. If we look at health, we have, at the West Hospital Center, 180 precarious operational assistants, 18 years ago—it is not acceptable. We have nurses working on green receipts, the so-called "false green receipts", which are people who solve the permanent needs of the services and who are the green receipt. We have doctors hired by temporary work companies to work in the National Health Service. These situations, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, you can't go on. And yet, this time, if a serious effort has been made to solve these problems, for which the CFP, which has come to alert successively to this situation, will make its best contribution to ensure that these situations are definitely resolved for the benefit of these people, for the benefit of public services,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u70	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u71	... for the benefit of a minimum of decency in the hiring of professionals by the State. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u72	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Green Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The fight against job insecurity is a fight that is necessary, because, in fact, in recent years, job insecurity has taken account of the reality of work in our country. Portugal is at the summits in terms of working precariousness, which is a reality that has gained weight and assumed increasing proportions. We well know that this situation has gained a new dimension with the policies and options of the PSD/CDS government, which in fact did not hide its intention to replace workers with rights for workers without rights—and these should be the examples of the previous government, the PSD and the CDS, to which Mrs Carla Barros referred. But, Mrs Carla Barros, what examples, when the former government made the rule of labour precarious! These are not examples, these are measures that need to be fought. In fact, we also learned that the CDS, by the way, continues to insist on precariousness, because even one complains that there are many public officials and therefore also makes its position clear. But when we talk about the precariousness of work, we are not only talking about less skilled workers, because the precariousness of work has even entered the large companies of lawyers, it has also settled in many companies at the level of higher education and within the state itself in several sectors, especially in education and health, where professionals face an absolutely unfortunate life, with precarious links, without rights and with far-reaching remuneration than is legally foreseen. Mr Secretary of State, this Government has made a commitment to halt a serious fight against precariousness and is working in this regard — indeed, it has been the purpose reaffirmed by the Secretary of State in the rostrum — and has already presented to us the report or the lifting of temporary procurement instruments in the Public Administration, which we believe represents an important step in this fight. It happens that this survey covers five contractual instruments of a temporary nature, but out of this survey are temporary employment contracts, a file widely used, as it is known, by the PSD/CDS government in the Public Administration, especially in the area of health. Just to give an example, even yesterday, The Greens met with a group of precarious workers from the West Hospital Center, who are professionals who work in the Hospitals of Caldas da Rainha, Torres Vedras and Peniche and who, in the performance of their functions, end up responding to the permanent needs of the various services. Even so, they live in a harsh precarious situation. The question I would like to ask you, Mr Secretary of State, is what the Government is thinking of doing in relation to the temporary employment contracts of those companies that have just provided labour — nurses and other staff. Since this is not covered by the report, it was good to know what the Government is thinking to do in relation to temporary employment contracts, a very used file, as it is known, by the PSD/CDS government, which today came to speak of good examples. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u74	You have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State for Employment.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u75	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have heard in this House addressing the government and other parties accusations of opportunism and play on a matter as serious as this. And it is ironic that the banks that did so have such expressions on the day that, 20 years later, we discussed in this House a process to regulate more than 100 000 people who may potentially be covered by such a process. [[P.S., P.P.P. and the Greens.]] It is ironic that these accusations are made on this precise day when a strategy is presented and discussed, an attempt to solve this problem that has long been dragged and that, in fact, has only been worsening over the past few years. Therefore, it is the strategy of prosecution, confusion and attempting to raise other issues. Now, I have to return this accusation of joke and opportunism.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u76	You have to answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u77	It is that joke and opportunism is about who systematically replaces this subject by others, which are relevant. The reform of the State is a very important issue and this government is doing so in the decentralization of the Simple in a set of improvements in public services. I would like to see, in addition to the famous document in a very large font, the double space, with few pages,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u78	Double space! Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u79	... that there has never been any realisation, which was what the previous government did and proposed to move forward in this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u80	It is a matter in which we are willing to discuss at any time on any issue. Wrinkler and opportunism are also those who, over recent years, in terms of labour and public administration employees, all they had to propose were two things: on the one hand, through the door, they pushed people to the so-called "requalification", which was a shelf with an exit door, and on the other hand through the window, they continued passively watching the boom of precariousness in the state. It is curious that those who have done this policy, who have followed this policy, speak here today of jokes and opportunism. More: the electoral program on the right, the program of the then PàF coalition (Portugal to Front), had no reference to precariousness in the Public Administration, there was no commitment, there was no program, there was no solution and, however, it is you who now accuse this government and other parties of gambling and opportunism. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And jokes and opportunism are also those who replace the issues of substance and process by questions of form, deadlines, leadership and procedural issues. The two Ministries responsible for this are represented here. The Ministry of Finance, of course, because it protects public employment issues, and the Ministry of Labour which has led the issues of combating precariousness. There is only one government and there is close coordination between all ministries in this area, as it demonstrates, in fact, that two-party committees which always involve the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Labour and each of the ministries involved will be set up, as announced. And, speaking of the involvement of the unions, I would like to say that, on the day when once again it is expressed and reiterates that the unions will be involved in this process, it will not negotiate it but as an integral part of the committees that will be assessing, on a case-by-case basis, the precarious situations that are detected, it is remarkable that it is stated here that there is any dissatisfaction of the unions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u81	You don't have anything else to say!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u82	...or that they are away from the process or that they have not known, when what there is, in fact, is a perfectly defined agenda of work with union forces. So I have to tell you, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who hear the PSD and the CDS speaking would think that they did something about it during the years they were in the government and would think that they had this clearly identified priority in the government programme with which the elections were held. However, neither is true. I therefore believe that they will have to comply and discuss the solution that the Government is presenting and proposing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They say, "Mrs." Members who, eventually, will not go away from something that will be prolonged in time. Don't! There are perfectly time-limits both in the State budget and today in this debate. Therefore, you think structures of this kind, with this complexity, are working and starting to solve these problems this year, in October, is too long. Imagine what it would be if it were the right hand side of the government! Imagine when these questions would be solved! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, I would like to point out, since it is a matter which has been mentioned, that this report on identifying and raising situations of precariousness in the administration was an extremely complex work — in fact, it allows us to have for the first time an idea and an approximate basis of those that are situations at a given time in the Public Administration. Obviously this report does not cover the whole year, as it was done on 30 June. I must say that I also find it remarkable that you complain that there are contracts in the state — and if you see the numbers, you know it is true — for sectors that for years have been with a carrot in the contracts and that they could not even respond to situations with very serious human resources shortages, namely education, health and other similar cases. I'm glad there's hiring for the state. What we want is to create conditions so that, more and more, such contracts are permanent contracts for permanent needs. Now, what we could not continue to leave was that there were public services in essential areas of State functions, such as health and education, or as science and higher education, which continued to have such a deficit that services often could hardly work. And the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the reality. The survey that was made is essentially a starting point work for... The survey that has been made is essentially a starting point for the work that we have to do next and, indeed, has already been explained, not only today, here, in the debate, as on other occasions, what is the process that is planned. The report that was made did not effectively cover all non-permanent contractual forms in the Administration. In fact, he complied with those listed in the State Budget Act for 2016, and even going further by including the term contracts because it seemed to us that, given its quantitative expression and its nature, it would be very difficult to defend to have a report of this kind that would not be part of what is probably the most expressive form of non-permanent recruitment in the Administration. But, of course, the government is absolutely available to continue to work and, from this survey, to conduct a process aimed at resolving situations that will be identified as situations of effective precariousness. There is a note which seems particularly important to me, which I have tried to stress in my initial speech and which I would like to stress now: it is the aim of this process that we want to safeguard that all those who work in the framework of the Public Administration and who understand that their contractual situation is not regular and that it should otherwise have the right and the possibility to go to the committees of each Ministry to expose their situation, bring the elements that they have to be evaluated by these two-party committees between the Ministries and the trade unions. Therefore, regardless of the case a or case b are included in the quantification that was made on 30 June— moreover, since it was on 30 June, it is no longer fully updated, there may be other situations or there may be fewer or more cases—, all individuals will be able to address the committees and will be able to see their situation assessed by these two-party committees. This seems to me to be an aspect of the greatest importance, because it ensures that, regardless of the competence and quality of the survey work that is done in each Ministry, each worker will be able to present his case and will have the opportunity to see it evaluated. This is a work and process to continue throughout 2017, with well-defined deadlines, with rules that we are refining and that will be accompanied by different Ministries and also trade union actors. We are therefore confident that 2017 will be the year of the start of a very important process, and very fair too, for so many people who have not seen any such process for 20 years. As a society, we have been allowing this problem to be booming, and it is this government and this majority that will resolve this issue. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u83	To begin the second round, Mr Álvaro Batista, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u84	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State for Employment, I would like to tell you so simply that in the PSD, what we want is that the law is met, that civil servants have dignified conditions to carry out their mission and that people have quality public services. That's what we want. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u85	Mr. Secretary of State, the Statistical Synthesis of Public Employment ( STEP ), which came out yesterday—maybe you do not know her because she is from the Ministry of Finance—shows that, since this government is in office, there are more than 12,900 term contracts. Mr. Secretary of State, there are more than 12,900 precariouss that this government has managed. Anyone who beats so much on the chest against the precariouss must come here to apologize to them, because it has been substantially increasing the precariousness since this government is in office. So be ashamed! [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Secretary of State, this is not a new phenomenon. The precaution report is June 2016, but the Public Enterprise Statistical Synthesis of June 2016 says that at that time 10 519 contracts had already entered. Mr. Secretary of State, there are more than 1000 precariouss per month until June.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u86	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u87	Another question I wanted to ask Mr. Secretary of State concerns the fact that we have two reports from the same Government which, curiously, say different things about the precariousness: one, is the report on precariousness and, another, is the Public Employment Statistical Synthesis of June 2016. And why is this, Mr. Secretary of State?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u88	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u89	I will now finish, Mr President. One report says there are 55 000 contracts to be concluded and another says there are 68,000 contracts to be concluded! Mr. Secretary of State, who has not been able to make the accounts in this government? We have a right to know.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u90	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President. You've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u91	I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr. Secretary of State, what the precariousness report does is to identify employment-inclusion contract situations, paid internships, research scholarships...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u92	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u93	I'm done now, Mr. President. However, I have read it - and you can be sure that I have read it from the beginning to the end - and I have not found a single precarious situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u94	Mr President, your time has already been greatly exceeded.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u95	I'm done now, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, people have the right to know how precarious there are. So this is the question I leave to you: how many problems exist in the Public Administration? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u96	Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate this afternoon reveals, in fact, that there are substantial differences between the parties on the left and the parties on the right. While the parties on the right insist on a leaflet that says nothing to the country, we solve the problems that really tell the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u98	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u99	But there are more fundamental differences! [[PSD protests.]] Take it easy, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. There are fundamental differences because there is no good precariousness—there is no good precariousness nor is it an alternative to unemployment situations. The idea that precariousness is not so bad, that we have to be entrepreneurs — one day here, another day there — that labour rights are a thing of the past, that trade unions are even overcome, that a good dose of precariousness, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is even useful to dynamize the labour market. [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] But not for us, sirs. Members, because, for us, workers are not spherographic, workers are not clips, workers are people who have the right to work rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u100	That's why they've increased the precariousness!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u101	For us, workers are entitled to a stable employment contract, paid holidays, disease care, protection in reform. For us, they are not benets, they do not contribute to the rigidity of the labour market, they are central to the European social model, they are structural axes of decent civilization and they are structural axes of the society we want to build and we will be going to beat. Precautionaryness has an individual cost on the worker and has a social cost for the whole society. It is a sword on the workers' head, it is a sword on those who are in situations of false green receipts, of underemployment, of precariousness, without knowing if they have a salary the following month, without knowing whether they can leave their parents' home, without knowing whether they can count on support to pay what they have to pay for their children, if they are older citizens, as many are too. The precariousness segmentes our labour market, the precariousness is a time bomb on the social security system, the precariousness is a time bomb on demography, the precariousness, in addition to being bad, is very, very expensive. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, we have taken a decision, a decision based on the dignity of labour rights, a decision based on the transparency of a report that the right has clearly not yet understood, because we need to know the radiography of the situations of temporary contracts in the public sector to know what we will do in order to regularize these workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u102	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u103	I will finish, Mr. President. It has been said here that at the moment it is the Ministry of Labour that is leading this process. For it is better to have the Ministry of Labour solve some of the labour problems we have in our country than to have the Minister of Finance of the former Government continue to worsen the situation of many of these workers. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u104	Let us therefore continue to solve these problems. I congratulate the Government on this, but we note that today's solution has a response from the right-wing benches, which is as follows: « They do not have us to solve the problem of precariousness in Portugal. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u105	Mr José Soeiro, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The Left Block is not a spectator of this process or this struggle, it has been fighting for many years. I would therefore like to bring three questions to this debate for the work we are now facing. The first question is: it is very important that the process of identifying the needs that will be done by the end of March corrects what did not appear in the diagnosis. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State for Employment, we very much appreciate that the wake-up of the Block and the mobilisation of workers has been a guarantee given today by the Government that workers with precarious links disguised by false outsourcing will be part of this integration process, that is, workers with a hidden relationship by intermediate companies will not stay outside — we are talking about hospital workers, we are talking about IEFP trainers (Employment and Vocational Training Institute), we are talking about RTP workers, coordination committees. It is a very important guarantee that has been given here today. The second question I wanted to raise concerns the identification criterion of what is a permanent need that will be used from here to the front, because this criterion has to be substantial and non-formal. For example, a trainer who has been at IEFP for 15 years is not an independent worker. Even when you have 18 hours of training paid to you by receipt, we know that you have a full-time job because, in addition to the hours paid by receipt, you have meetings, you have representations, you have preparation of the training you give. In the private sector, at the end of three years of successive term contracts, the need for the worker is considered to be permanent and the bond of the worker must be recognised and a contract concluded without end. We know that in the state there are researchers in laboratories, there are employees in schools, there are technicians in the educational territories of priority intervention, there are pockets in the public institutes, there are nurses, there are, outside the law, thousands of workers with employment-inclusion contracts that have never been recognised as workers or as occupying a permanent need. These people, all of them, have the right to recognize their bond. Finally, a third issue which we consider essential is that the process is transparent and involved by the workers themselves. From this point of view, the inclusion of workers' representatives in arbitral committees, as the Block has always defended, is also an important factor of confidence in the process. In addition, we always advocate that any worker, whether or not in the diagnosis, should be able to address this arbitral committee and say « I want my case to be evaluated », « I want my case to be integrated ». From that point of view, it is very important that this can happen. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: The right has nothing to say in this debate because it has lived with this abuse and this illegality over the years. You should be ashamed, but you're not ashamed, disconcerting.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u107	The government has increased the number of precariouss!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u108	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u109	I will finish, Mr. President. This majority, on the contrary, can come to history with this process, because 20 years ago — since the Guterres Government — that there was no such process. For 20 years, with right-wing governments and majority governments of the Socialist Party, the general precariousness has become, but this government, with this majority, can now turn that page and can make history. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u110	You now have the floor on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If there are things that do not, certainly, match this subject and with this reality that refers to the precariousness and life of many people, it is simplism and populism. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u112	Simplism and populism do not marry complex problems. And if there is one thing that the Portuguese have memory and know well is where the speech of those who, for so many years, have been promising the Portuguese worlds and funds and then sent us to bankruptcy. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u113	The Portuguese remind themselves of the Socrates generation, they remember that many of those who today are trying to teach humanism then push the country for greater poverty on these issues there is no such thing as not being rigorous, there is no such thing as not being responsible. Mr Secretary of State for Employment, when we criticize the process, we are criticizing a process that should call for responsibility. Otherwise, let's see. Firstly, the left said about labour legislation, which pushed for precariousness, which pushed Portuguese to unemployment. What's clear today? That labour legislation is contributing to job creation, it is contributing to stable job creation, according to institutional figures. It's not worth penpopulism nor is it worth extremism.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u115	Secondly, Mr Secretary of State, a report was proposed in October, in which they said they were working with depth and team. Now, October passed and the left sitting at the end of this room began to get nervous, began to multiply demands, trying to demonstrate protagonistism. Then it was November, it was December. And what are we watching today? A report! And what does that report say, what is precarious? The report states that it is not yet presenting the numbers it intends to present in October and that it will still assess until November. And the Secretary of State says here that this slow survey will continue, that the process will continue this year, but it is still not well known in what timetable. This is strictly what is at stake, Mr Secretary of State! What we liked was that the government gave us a diagnosis of reality, that it knew how to distinguish what is legal, what is false green receipt, what it wants to attribute to the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u116	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u117	But Mr. Secretary of State was unable to tell us that, because he is not in a position to do so. And at the bench sitting here on the left one can only say one thing: they have come to invoke humanism, they have come to say that serious situations that were at stake.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u118	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u119	I shall conclude, Mr President. So let them be consistent and assume once and for all that if the government does not fully comply with your demands they present a motion of censure.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u120	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u121	They demonstrate that they are consistent with this humanism or will remain in this duplicity, which is inconsequential, and that only uses the precariouss for political profit. That's what's at stake. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u122	For the PCP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State for Employment: I would like to remind you that this data has now been disclosed because between 2011 and 2015 the PSD and CDS government refused to make this report.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u124	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u125	During these four years, during the evaluation of all State budgets, the CFP proposed that this survey be made. Mrs Carla Barros and Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, the PSD and the CDS refused to do so and even refused to respond to requests, which they had an obligation to reply, bearing in mind these data. Therefore, we realize from this position that the position of the PSD and the CDS is that of those who do not want to discuss this matter by political option. They do not want to discuss or present proposals to solve the problem because precariousness is the proposal of the PSD and the CDS. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u126	Is there a motion of censure or not? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u127	That is why, Mr. Secretary of State, precariousness did not fall from heaven. In the private sector and in the public sector, precariousness is a direct responsibility of successive governments, in particular the former, the PSD and the CDS, which, in the Public Administration, applied the worst practices of the private sector: imposed workers with unemployment benefits to work without paying them wages; imposed scholarships to supply permanent needs; imposed employees to supply permanent needs in schools; imposed the hiring of doctors, nurses, diagnostic technicians and therapy through temporary work enterprises. We know that this does not serve the lives of these workers nor does it serve the functioning of public services. For this reason, the CFP's contribution to this matter is to establish justice. This is a contribution to the recognition of employment with quality public rights and services, because they do not exist without adequate and valued workers in their rights. We cannot discuss here, for example, the problem of IEFP trainers and the precariousness of false green receipts in IEFP since there is no staff framework, and this problem has to have a specific response. We cannot also discuss the fact that there are thousands of employees in schools with right-term contracts. We cannot discuss these matters without realizing that each sector at the level of higher education and the national scientific and technological system requires a specific answer to resolve, not to keep everything in it. The decision of the CFP to schedule this debate is therefore to make it clear that a permanent job must be an effective link. The State has an obligation to set an example. That is the contribution of the CFP, of which we are proud. If we are here today to discuss these matters, it is because the CFP has never stopped bringing the debate, because we believe that they are inconsequential about the valorization of public services and because the script for the reform of the state of Dr. Paulo Portas has been defeated. The State has specific obligations, has social functions that are enshrined in the Constitution, and that is what we are discussing here: employment with rights, education, public school or the National Health Service do not exist without recognized public officials and valued in their rights. So here we are and therefore we do not abdicate this fight. Employment with rights is a central struggle for our democracy and the CFP will not lower its arms. [[PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u128	For the Green Parliamentary Group, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u129	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS, today's debate is not about gambling, it's not about propaganda, it's about a very serious matter. We are talking about the precariousness of work, which you have greatly multiplied. And when we talk about job insecurity, we're talking about working relationships outside the law, we're talking about dealing with the rights of those who work, about the degradation of working conditions, and we're talking about the increase in levels of exploitation. These are the facts. The numbers are still very cruel, as we know, and therefore the picture of the labor situation in our country is of lies, falsehoods and simulations, much because of the responsibility of the PSD and the CDS. And the worst thing is that it was the State itself to set the example in the area of precariousness, also visible here, especially with the PSD/CDS government, which has put thousands of people working in hospitals, health centres, schools and so many other public services to respond to permanent needs, but with absolutely precarious links. But the PSD/CDS government, as we know, has not only promoted precariousness, it has made even worse: it has put the State itself and the taxpayers to finance this precariousness, particularly through the internship programmes for long-term unemployed. The State finances, taxpayers finance and companies benefit from virtually free labour. This was the motto of the PSD and CDS. It is important to fight this reality, because it is also important to restore truth in working relations. It is necessary for the State to begin by setting an example with regard to work with rights so as to be able to demand respect for the law from the private sector. But, Mr Secretary of State for Employment, after hearing the PSD and the CDS in this debate, who for four years multiplied precariousness in the Public Administration and put taxpayers to finance precariousness in the private sector today, when there is an effort to combat this precariousness what they have to say is that this is a joke and propaganda. Mr Secretary of State, what we believe is that today the government has a precarious, very precarious opposition. But that is not a problem that the government has to solve, nor do we think it has a solution. That's it, and ready! [[Applause from The Greens, the BE and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u130	For an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State for Employment, Miguel Cabrita, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u131	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If there is something that this afternoon's debate, in particular this second round, has allowed us to conclude, clearly, that there is a part of this plenary for whom the precariousness does not concern, nor has it ever taken an interest in recent years! [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] They say, "Mrs." Members of the PSD and the CDS that we came here to teach lessons. I haven't come here to teach anyone, but I haven't come here to receive them from those who have no lessons to teach. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u132	Don't forget what you said today!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u133	And I also did not detect any questions to be answered that actually had to do with this issue that we are dealing with here, which is this process of resolving precariousness in the administration. over four years of government action there was no other solution known than to assist passively the increase of precariousness and to push public services and workers to increasingly complicated situations. There was no solution in the electoral programme that the opposition parties presented to the Portuguese and now continue to have no commitment to this issue, nor to present any constructive suggestions for this process, which can benefit tens of thousands of people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is the truth and probably the reason why today's debate went as it went. Mr. Álvaro Batista said that he wanted the law to be fulfilled and that he wanted the dignity of the people who work. in this case, there is nothing more to do than support this process and present constructive solutions to give it the success that we all want it to have. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] on the part of the government and the majority that supports it is not that, so we are clearly in the opposite fields. For us, precariousness is important, and therefore its solution represents a compromise, not only in words, but in order to resolve it. That is why we are here today discussing not just on the basis of a report, not only on the basis of political concern, but already on the basis of a solution which is being drawn up and which will be moving forward with commitments throughout this year. Moreover, the Government does not focus on the debate on precariousness only on the issues of the Public Administration. This issue of precariousness is part of a government strategy and a cross-cutting concern about labour market issues. Even recently, suspicious international entities stressed that the issues of segmentation and precariousness are one of the fundamental challenges of our labour market, including in the State. That is, in fact, also the perception that the Government has and the commitment it has always made. That is why this debate on precariousness and this strategy for its fight is not just about precariousness in the state, but also about other dimensions that are moving forward, just like this one. In fact, a commitment made perfectly in the Government Programme not only aims at a policy of progressive eradication of forms of precariousness in the State, but also a set of other matters in which these issues are also relevant: the State as the supervisor, through the strengthening of the Labour Conditions Authority; the State as the promoter of active employment policies, which is no longer supporting term contracts, as it has done for years and years, thickening the lines of term contracts in the private sector; the State as the legislator also, with the debate that will advance in the consultation on these matters; and, of course, public employment, which is a fundamental dimension of the employment market in Portugal, in which the State also has to set an example as an employer. On this process I still wanted to say a number of things. First of all, and also responding to Mr José Moura Soeiro, I would like to stress once again that for us the participation of all relevant actors is of the greatest importance. This naturally implies the ministries that have responsibility in this area, the ministries where the situations concerned, of course the unions, as representatives of the workers, and those concerned themselves will be examined. It would make no sense for such a process to be subject only to the survey made by ministries, however competent and well-intentioned they were. It is very important that each person can expose his or her situation if, for any reason, it has not been detected or has not been identified as being of potential precariousness. This assessment will be made, people will have that right and we believe that this is an absolutely fundamental element for justice and equity in this process. Of course it will be complex processes, we have this notion. There are formal and other criteria that need to be refined. There will be no equal solutions for all cases, there may be services that are, in fact, several years ago, there may be other contractual forms that are justified on the basis of the specificities involved in each sector. But, in fact, what matters is that, in each case, there is an assessment of the circumstances and situations of each person and that, depending on the criteria, whether labour, or in all other matters related to the type of functions performed and the contractual form that exists, can be appreciated by these bilateral committees, which are not arbitration committees, in the strictest sense of the term, are to be evaluated, in order to be able to understand what the situation is and what the future of each of the cases is in essence. As far as the case is concerned, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, all deadlines will be met.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u134	When? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u135	The deadlines are clearly identified in the State Budget Act. I see that Mr Álvaro Batista has read the reports he quoted and has also seen little attention to the State Budget Act, because the deadlines are written there. In terms of deadlines, what is essentially concerned is that by the end of March — in the first quarter of 2017 — there will be a bill that will be presented in this House on how this process will take place and still during this year, in October 2017, the two-party committees that will carry out the execution of this process and the evaluation of each case that is signalled. I understand the noise, I understand the confusion that this can cause to those who, in fact, do not want to solve this problem and would probably be more interested in the government's letting it go and making the situation worse, but that is not the political commitment of this government and that is not going to be the way that will be followed.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u136	It's getting worse!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u137	What we are now starting — which, in fact, we have already started with the survey made — is what we are now taking on and we are going to move forward throughout 2017 is a work of the entire Government, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Finance, all the ministries involved, so that we can once and for all limit this problem of precariousness and so that we are not, from here to 5, 10, 15 or 20 years, to discuss the same problem again and have to do a process with this dimension. That was the commitment we had in the Government Programme and these are the safe steps we are taking to finally face a problem that you did not want or want to face. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u138	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as there are no more entries and as parliamentary groups do not have any more time, this first item on our agenda is now concluded. We move on to the second point of our agenda, the joint debate, in general, of the proposals of lein. 45 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves measures for uniform application and practical enforcement of the right to free movement of workers by transposing Directive 2014 / 54 / EU, 54 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Facilitates recognition of professional qualifications and reduces constraints on the free movement of persons and transposes Directive 2013 / 55 / EU and 55 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — transposes Directive 2014 / 67 / EU on the posting of workers within the framework of the provision of services. To present the initiatives, Mr. Secretary of State for Employment has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today there are three legislative proposals which refer to the transposition into the Portuguese legal system of a set of European Union directives. Directives on matters of high relevance to the regulation of the right to freedom of movement of workers, the provision of services in the European area and the recognition of professional qualifications in this field. Therefore, what is currently under discussion is the integration into the Portuguese law of some of the fundamental principles of the internal market and the European Union itself, since its foundation, and the guarantee that the incorporation of these principles is done in a framework of enhanced and high legal certainty, with adequate levels of protection for workers. Allow me brief notes on each of the directives now implemented. With regard to the Directive on the free movement of workers, a fundamental freedom of European citizens, it is concerned to ensure measures to facilitate the exercise of this right and to strengthen mechanisms for guaranteeing adequate and non-discriminatory legal treatment of workers. To this end, the various competent authorities shall be identified, on the basis of the matters they protect, responsible for monitoring and ensuring the effectiveness of these principles in national territory. It is also designated by the High Commissioner for Migration as the coordinating entity of this effort at the national level, and the ACM (High Commissioner for Migration) is responsible for reporting and linking both with the European Commission and with the equivalent entities of other Member States at the bilateral and multilateral level. With regard to the transposition of the existing directive on the posting of workers, the following is concerned: to increase the protection of workers in subcontracting chains, ensuring that workers seconded in contracts in the construction sector or others may consider the contractor responsible for any net late remuneration corresponding to the minimum wage tables. This amendment is, moreover, consistent with the recent evolution of our legal order, thus making every sense that an equivalent and applied solution is found for workers who are prominent in our country. In addition, significant improvements are envisaged in the awareness and transparency of the rules, rights and obligations relating to information on employment conditions and collective conventions applicable to posted workers, through a single website of the Internet, as well as established rules for cooperation between national authorities, in particular the Labour Conditions Authority and its counterparts in the European Union, including via the internal market information system, multilingual electronic tool in the European area, thus promoting a healthier environment of cross-border competition, but above all, ensuring adequate levels of protection for second-hand workers, in particular when it comes to workers in subcontracting chains. the importance of establishing rules to improve administrative cooperation between national authorities responsible for monitoring compliance with labour standards, hence the importance of a set of rules to combat abuse and avoidance of labour rules and the social protection of posted workers. Finally, I refer to the transposition of the Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications within the European Union, which ultimately aims to strengthen the internal market, promote the free movement of accredited professionals and protect workers, ensuring recognition of their more efficient and transparent professional qualifications. It is for this reason that the European professional portfolio is created, still in a pilot phase and covering only a few professions, that is why a system of alerts of the internal market information system is set up when restrictions are detected on the exercise of a profession and a single electronic counter which concentrates all information on the recognition of professional qualifications, and in Portugal this unique portal is the Citizen's Portal. In conclusion, we believe that with the transposition of these directives our country has not only better conditions for compliance with European standards but, above all, also provides better conditions for workers in national territory. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u140	For an intervention, on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mr. Ricardo Bexiga has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: On behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, I would like to commend the Government for this package of transposition of Community directives which was presented today by the Secretary of State for Employment. At the moment we are experiencing a profound crisis of trust and linkage of the European citizen to the European Union, these initiatives respond to the effective problems of the citizens, which greatly contribute to deepening European citizenship and, in a crucial way, to regain the confidence of the citizen in the functioning of the European Union. We are talking today about freedom of movement for workers, but not only. We are also talking about the freedom of movement of their families, the freedom of movement and residence of workers as part of the recognition of their qualifications. We are also talking about fundamental principles of defending the equal working conditions of the distinguished worker and his families. This legislative package introduces in national legislation a set of fundamental European standards that will, of course, ensure the development in Portugal of the European pillar of social rights, in the change of paradigm in the creation of a European social model and also in the affirmation of the idea of social Europe through the construction of a set of rights that resume what is fundamental from the point of view of European destiny. What is fundamental from the point of view of European destiny, regardless of very relevant issues with regard to budgetary balance, with regard to the principle of free initiative, with regard to issues of economic development, is essentially in the view of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, the citizens' right, the European Union's turning to the problems of citizens and, essentially, the construction of the new European social model, which, from the point of view of the free movement of workers, sees in these three proposals of law submitted by the Government fundamental instruments to update the national labour law legislation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u142	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u143	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: The proposed legislation stems from the need for transposition of European directives implementing harmonisation of labour rights in the case of posting of workers. Indeed, with the freedom of movement existing in European territory, it is necessary, in fact, to safeguard the rights of those who travel for work, combating precarious forms of work and forced labour. Bill 45/ XIII and Bill 54/ XIII relate, on the one hand, to the strengthening of legal protection mechanisms, the elimination of administrative obstacles and the simplification of procedures for those moving from one Member State to another in order to work and, on the other, recognition of qualifications, creating instruments such as the European Professional Wallet, harmonizing recognitions, terminology and systems of guarantees to professions at Member State level. Both go in the direction of improving the mechanisms for guaranteeing and protecting workers, although supervision must be closely accompanied. Law No 55/ XIII has already raised some doubts. It aims, theoretically, to ensure respect for an adequate level of protection of the rights of posted workers for the provision of cross-border services. It also refers to the need for harmonisation in the question of the provision of services with recent changes to the Labour Code in matters of solidarity and subsidiarity responsibility of employers in the context of temporary work. This amendment to the Labour Code which has been referred to, and well, on the initiative of the Left Block and aims to help combat forced forms of work and to hold the entire chain of employment of the worker, guaranteeing him rights, remuneration and protection. the analysis made, specifically to article 12. in paragraph 3, we can say that the guarantees already included in the Portuguese legal order in August last year as regards the solidarity and subsidiary responsibility of the contracting entity are not guaranteed by that Article in paragraph 3. The wording that the contractor has to demonstrate that "acted with due diligence", exempts him in practice from that responsibility. It is not a clear formulation and opens the door to an interpretation contrary to the guarantee that we have already been able to implement in Portugal. Considering the freedom to adjust and adapt European directives, which the governments of each Member State have, we consider that Article 12 (3). the presentation should be reviewed, under the detriment of returning to the penalization of those who abuse and disrespect the workers. We understand the wording of the proposal. The project of the Left Block, at the time, on forced labour already met some of the provisions of the Directive and we also know that employers'confederations filed a complaint with the International Labour Organization precisely because of the changes made in this area and that, with the wording of Article 12 ( 3 ). this proposal may, in our view, be called into question. It is therefore regrettable that when the objective is to protect workers, employers do not excuse the means to penalize those who protect them, so on the specific issue of Article 12 ( 3 ). we appeal that we may still consider changing the wording already mentioned, under the penalty of opening the door to legal interpretations that will again allow the abuse and use of forced labour, without anyone being held responsible for this, and the workers thus become unprotected. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u144	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Susana Lamas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u145	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members : Three legislative proposals are under discussion today. Bill No. 45 / XIII approving measures for uniform application and practical enforcement of the right to free movement of workers by transposing Directive 2014 / 54 / EU; Bill No. 54 / XIII which facilitates recognition of professional qualifications and reduces constraints on the free movement of persons by amending Law No. 9 / 2009 of 4 March and transposing Directive 2013 / 55 / EU; and Bill No. 55 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ), which transposes Directive 2014 / 67 / EU on the posting of workers within the framework of the provision of services. These proposals aim at transposition into the Portuguese legal order of Community directives on matters of greatest relevance and which require a serious and constructive analysis for which the PSD is, as it has always been, fully available. We therefore consider it essential to adapt legislation to the new conditions of the Union labour market by promoting the exercise of free movement at transnational level, in a climate of fair competition and in respect of workers' rights. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today the free movement of persons, particularly workers, is a fundamental right of the citizens of the European Union and is crucial to the development of a real internal market. The PSD, a party involved in European construction, must not fail to value the elimination of obstacles to the exercise of workers'rights in the European Union.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u146	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u147	We know that many workers still do not know their rights with regard to freedom of movement and can therefore be subjected to unjustified restrictions, or even obstacles, to their right to freedom of movement, including non-recognition of qualifications, and therefore measures aimed at promoting the free movement of workers, strengthening legal protection mechanisms, eliminating administrative obstacles and simplifying procedures, are measures to which we do not cease to associate ourselves. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Portugal is currently the fourth country of the European Union with more prominent workers and we therefore consider it absolutely essential, too, to defend the rights of these workers. Finally, we will have time to continue to discuss these issues as a specialist, and I would like to stress the need to strengthen the internal market enshrined in the Treaty establishing the European Community, to promote the free movement of workers and to ensure recognition of the most efficient and transparent qualifications, all objectives that we defend and which have been the target of various legislative measures. Finally, we regret the fact that these directives are delayed in their transposition into the domestic legal order, which shows political mismanagement and even a lack of political interest on the part of this government, which we cannot fail to note. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u148	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u149	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : On the subject of the implementation of European directives on the free movement of workers within the European Union, the recognition of professional qualifications and the posting of workers in the field of the provision of services, it is important to say that the CFP always insisted that it was not enough to say that the freedom of movement of workers was a basic principle of the European Union. The CFP has always stressed that it was necessary to ensure that all equal rights are guaranteed, that European Union guidelines and economic policies create the jobs needed for all and that the economic and social mechanisms needed to avoid any kind of social dumping are guaranteed. On the proposed legislation under discussion, the general analysis that we make of them is that they make positive steps in promoting, analysing, monitoring, supporting, equal treatment of workers in the European Union and their families, in recognition of professional qualifications and in safeguarding workers' rights in their posting within the scope of the provision of services, but we cannot fail to express concern about the possibility of importing or exporting cheap labour. Thus, it is important to combat what is the possibility of a prominent Portuguese worker in another country of the European Union, within the framework of the provision of services, to have lower working and social conditions compared with those of a worker who performs the same functions in the same country where the Portuguese worker is seconded and it is important to ensure that this does not happen with workers from other countries highlighted in our country. Of course, these are proposals that should have a more thorough and thorough analysis in the field of expertise, and amendments that will improve them can be introduced. On these matters, it is also important to ensure labour rights and protect the rights of migrant workers who, in the overwhelming majority of times, leave their countries looking for solutions in another country because they do not find answers in their own country. It is important to ensure policies for economic and social progress in combating the most diverse discrimination in the defence of equal rights and opportunities and respect for the dignity of those who work. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u150	Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u151	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The European Union is the destination of many Portuguese people today — and I stress today — continue to seek better employment and life opportunities. And we are members of the European Union, despite the opposition of the Left Block and the PCP, parties that support the government - it is never too much to remember.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u152	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u153	This participation entails duties for Portugal, from the outset the transposition of directives and, within them, as we know, even because it is a norm enshrined in the treaties, the freedom of movement of workers. We have the notion that it is the responsibility of Portugal to transpose these directives and do so through three legal decrees, addressing several matters that, in particular, we can examine more in detail, from the outset the free movement of workers, which can lead to vulnerabilities to these same workers and unjustified restrictions, which is why it is through these proposals that seek to strengthen the protection mechanisms of these same workers, defining which entities in Portugal have the same responsibility. As regards Bill No 54 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ), on the institutionalisation in Portugal of the European professional portfolio, in the background, allows the circulation of three professions in particular throughout the European Union, which are the professions of nurse, pharmacist and physiotherapist. This means that there are a number of professions which, at the moment, in the European space have the space to look for this same opportunity of success. Also with regard to those professions that have automatic recognition, there is a need for continuous professional development for these same professionals. With regard to workers seconded for the provision of cross-border services, the application of the terms and conditions of employment applicable in the Member State in which the service is to be provided is envisaged, primarily by seeking to safeguard fair competition between service providers when they travel within the European Union. This is also a fundamental principle of the organisation of this Union to which we belong. In the specialty, the CDS will always be able to honour its European commitments. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u154	With no further inscriptions, I conclude the debate on the proposals of lein. 45, 54 and 55 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). Let us start the joint discussion, in general, of Bill No 52 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establishs the system of balanced representation between women and men in the administrative and supervisory bodies of companies in the public business sector and listed companies in the stock market and draft law No 406 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Promotes gender equality in the composition of State administration bodies ( BE ). To submit the bill, Mr. Under-Secretary-General Eduardo Cabrite has the floor to whom I take advantage of to greet.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u155	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The theme that is discussed here today is one more step towards the affirmation of a more balanced, more participatory society in which the talent of women and men is fully used for the development of the country and for the construction of a more solidarity society. [[P.S. and P.N.A. applause.]] Portugal is a country in which women are today the majority of doctors and graduates, are the majority of those trained in areas such as management or law and have successfully entered into areas that were previously banned from them, such as diplomatic career or magistrates. The 2006 Parity Act and the 2013 Regulatory Act were significant steps to ensure that: in areas such as political participation, Parliament now has the composition that we see today, distinct from what existed when, for the first time, I was elected here; in regulatory entities, by a 2013 diploma, gender participation is significantly different today, with rules of alternance in the presidencies; in the local power today, more than 25% of the councillors are women. But if we look at the business world, the difference is still significant. Therefore, in line with the guidance of the directive advocated by Commissioner Viviane Reding, in the second Commission / Barroso, Portugal has undertaken to implement, at the internal level, a strategy of balanced gender participation in management, both of listed companies in the stock market and of public undertakings. This is what we propose here. The State must set an example in a framework of equality in the world of work and employment. Therefore, public enterprises will be the first, and with superior requirement, to be called to this effort. Also for companies listed in the stock market, we cannot bear a reality in which, at the end of such a period of self-regulation, we have only 12 % of women in the administrative and supervisory bodies. This is a broad agenda for equality in the labour market, which has diplomas on wage disparity, on reconciliation between personal and professional life, on asserting parental rights and combating professional segregation. It is one more step towards a more just, more balanced society for all. [[P.S. and P.N.A. applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u156	For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u157	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The participation of women and men in equality is a key factor for the socio-economic development of any country, so combating the exclusion of women in all aspects of public and private life and specifically in all decision-making and leadership bodies of the State is the necessary requirement for social transformation and for a society that truly wants equality. I think we will all agree on this. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is no good to be left alone by the speeches and the words printed on the panel of recommendations, treaties, conventions, resolutions, commitments, national and international, which exist in the field of gender equality. The reality is that the participation of women, in particular in leadership and decision-making, remains a minority, even though women represent, as has already been said by the Minister, 54% of the enrolments in higher education and being majority in doctors.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u158	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u159	When it comes to senior positions in the Public Administration, women account for only 32 %. And even in those sectors where women are majority, as they go up in the hierarchy of functions and positions, women will disappear. Something's not right here. In higher education, for example, the area of education studies has an 80% feminization rate. In the performance of the functions in this area of education, women are also in weight — in fact, in pre-school education, the rate of feminization reaches 98 % — but, as the scale goes up, the participation of women decreases dramatically. In other words, women are minority in university teaching, scientific research and, of course, in university school. The reality therefore proves to us that we cannot wait for equality in access and participation in decision-making positions to take place on our own. While we wait, we waste invaluable resources, we despise more than half the population, but above all, we are committed to maintaining this state of things in a patriarchal society founded on inequality and discrimination. If we really want to build an evolved society, equality and complete democracy, we can no longer tolerate these inequalities and discrimination. Therefore, the Left Block considers that the State has a duty to make the move and to set an example in this matter. And this example should be guided by the highest standards: absolute parity and recognition that gender is neither, nor can it be, impediment to access to places of direction and decision-making. So we go beyond the Government's proposal and we defend not a lame parity but an absolute parity in the State administration bodies — half / half. And we go beyond the Government's proposal because we are not limited to the State Business Sector, we consider that parity is imposed on all the collegial bodies of the direct, indirect and autonomous administration of the State. We cannot just stand by the words, we must take the next step and move on to concrete measures. It's just, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the merit with which so many excuse not to change anything can only be a condition when access and participation are really guaranteed in full equality; otherwise, it is only an excuse. We have the opportunity here to ensure that gender is no longer the reason for excluding decision-making. We will see who is really on the side of equality and who is left by words, intentions and speeches. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u160	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u161	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: It is true that women still face numerous barriers in access to top and decision-making careers, as, moreover, has already been evidenced here. The balanced participation of women and men in power and decision-making, both political and economic, is recognized as a requirement for mature democracy and is a specific contribution to sustainable development. That is why in the CDS we defend, and put into practice, gender equality here on this bench, in which we have a representation of women of 44%. We do what we defend in our home, because that is the first and most effective step to make the reality in which we move, indeed, become. For this effort, we have appreciated the regulatory instruments, from the results that Parliament has already shown that it has taken us 10 years to reach the present 33 % nominal representation of the female gender. in this regard, in the previous PSD/CDS Government, significant steps have been taken by means of a set of three Council of Ministers resolutions, of which a commitment, which is in force for the 2018 verification of gender quotas under-represented in the Boards of Directors, has resulted. This government forgets this commitment and imposes on listed companies what it has failed to implement in the recent appointment of the General Deposit Box administration, which has only one woman, on a high-value mark, in seven members, laying down the obligation for the management bodies of the listed companies to have 20 % of women by year. The Government's proposal today under consideration is shy in the scope of the public and maximalist perimeter in private, not following, as wisdom would recommend, some limits and exclusions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u162	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u163	For example, it covers not only executives but also executives, which can put serious interparate justice problems and even the selection of candidates; it does not exclude companies listed in the category of SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises), which can mean disproportionate taxation; it imposes the payment of a compulsory, high and progressive monetary penalty. For all this, and because there is an agreement signed and in force with the listed companies, this bill gives us reservations. As for the bill of the Left Block, if it is true that it hinges on the public perimeter, it is also true that it applies, linearly, a criterion of parity, adding a point for this purpose to each of the eight laws and decrees-laws it intends to amend, revealing a total ignorance of the functioning of the organs whose composition intends to become parity. In the CDS we are seriously concerned about the effects that this simple application can cause. Finally, perhaps the most important question in this area: what really prevents women from reaching decision-making places? Not only traditional stereotypes and a male-dominated business culture, which must certainly be fought,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u164	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u165	... but also the working conditions and the difficulty in reconciling family and professional life. Often, it is necessary to choose between career and children. Certainly, the way we wish for all women is to create an environment favourable to this trade-off, through social and labour measures, which are an example of extending the hours of day care, the benefits within IRC, dispensation for child care or telework regulation. Unfortunately, these measures, like so many others, have been down here...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u166	Well remembered! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u167	... when the CDS presented them as part of the birth promotion package—unfortunately, especially for the same women as you now, so diligently intend to help. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u168	For an intervention, Mrs Elza Pais has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u169	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: I begin by welcoming the Government and the Minister for the introduction of this bill, which will introduce a significant step towards promoting equality. I would even say that we are living a historic moment, because we are also fighting against the waste of women's qualifications. Portugal has taken significant steps in this area, particularly with the approval of the parity law in 2006, which has made this House, in terms of Members, 33 % of women today, 40 years after April. It said Maria de Lourdes Pintasilgo: either democracy is equal or it is not democracy, and we want to follow this principle. That is why, Minister, many congratulations on the presentation of this proposal. This proposal, which has long been desired, will combat gender discrimination in business leaders, will finally arrive, but it is too late. Now, we know today, for scientific evidence, that women are more qualified than men and it is unfair that they do not have the same opportunities. What are you going to do with this proposal? It will correct these situations of inequality, will break down the glass ceilings that have prevented qualified women from reaching the top of the leadership, despite the effort they make to get there, and will follow European good practices in this matter, followed, for example, by Germany, France and Italy. We know that gender inequality in corporate leadership is today, in our country, screaming. To give some examples: in the board of directors of companies listed in the stock market, in every five members, there is only one woman and there are zero women to preside over these boards of directors; in 155 local companies, only 23 are chaired by women, i.e. 15%. So, something needs to be corrected, so as not to waste any more the talent and qualification of women. We know today that self-regulation strategies have been good in times, have made their way, but are exhausted and have not produced the desired results. Therefore, we need to go further, with binding strategies, to speed up and strengthen this change and also with binding strategies so that the argument of competence does not continue to be put in place—and today I think that, however worrying it is, this issue continues to be put. This argument is exhausted, it is absolutely ridiculous and the reason why women do not reach leadership is not the lack of competence, nor the lack of qualification of women. The reasons why women do not reach leadership are different and have to do with stereotypes, with barriers, with established lobbies that prevent women from arriving there. Therefore, this law accelerates this change, this law is to comply with the Constitution, it is to comply with European treaties and it is to comply with international conventions. I would also like to say that there is an open letter signed by 50 human rights and human rights associations of women and more than 100 individualities, one of which is the leader of the women of the PSD's UGT, which calls for this law to be adopted today. I hope, and I believe, that we can stand before a historic moment, that will be viable by all parties in this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u170	For an intervention, Mrs. Angela War has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u171	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: There is no balance in the representation of women and men in the administrative bodies of the majority of companies. It is a reality in the European Union and also Portugal. This situation is persistent and resistant. As my colleague Ana Rita Bessa has already said, the appointment for the General Deposit Box Management Board — an opportunity lost by the government, who has appointed a single woman in a universe of eight executive administrators, that is, 12, 5 %! This inequality presents a historical and structural nature. However, significant progress has been achieved in recent years. The proportion of women on the board of directors of PSI-20 companies in Portugal increased by 6 % in 2011 to the current 14 %. This presence is still very little, but more than it has doubled in the area of a legislature. The balance between women and men in decision-making, political and economic places is a requirement for the quality of democracy and a contribution to the development of countries, providing the skills and skills of both women and men. The former Government approved a set of measures to strengthen women's participation in economic decision-making and the progressive elimination of wage differences. Examples of these measures are the adoption between 2012 and 2015 of a number of Council of Ministers resolutions establishing measures to promote the plural presence of women and men in the management and supervision bodies of companies in the public and private sectors. Moreover, what the Government is now proposing in Article 6. that of the bill, as regards the preparation of plans for equality in companies of the State Business Sector, is mandatory since 2012, by the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 19 / 2012, of 8 March. I will only give three examples of relevant measures in the promotion of gender balance, which have been made in recent years, because they are much more: the framework law of independent administrative entities, where gender alternance is imposed in the provision of the presidency of the board of directors and the minimum representation of 33 % of each sex in the designation of vowels; the decree-law which amended the General Regime of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies, which establishes the setting of objectives for the representation of men and women; or the diploma which came to impose, as a weighting factor for the application of Community funds, the representation of women in top organs. But, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have also made periodic surveys on the level of representation of women in the boards of administration and supervision of companies in the State Business Sector, and these have been published periodically at the Government Portal. In 2015, commitments were signed with 14 large companies, most of them listed in the PSI-20, who have undertaken to reach or maintain 30 % of women on the board of directors until 2018, i.e. a higher percentage than the one the government now proposes also for 2018. However, the current government did not monitor the results of these commitments and did nothing to expand them, as, moreover, the other socialist governments had done nothing by 2011 to resolve the issue. We therefore consider that the process of self-regulation initiated has not been exhausted and that the Government has done nothing to assess it and to deepen it by presenting a hasty bill, in our view, when it does not even respect in its nominations what it intends to impose on others. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u172	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u173	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : After 107 years of the proclamation of International Women's Day, supported by three demands — equal work / equal pay, eight hours and work and right to vote — the struggle of women for equality at work, in society and in the family is an immense current. In our country, in 1976, the result of the general struggle of workers and women in particular, is enshrined in the Constitution the right to equal pay for equal work, raising this claim to the category of fundamental law and condition of social development. Consecrates the Constitution that no one can be harmed by reason of descent, sex, religion, political or ideological convictions, economic situation, social condition or sexual orientation. However, and despite all advances, the gap between rights in law and its realization in life continues to be enormous. Wage disparities between women and men exceed 30 % in the various sectors of activity. Pay discrimination figures show that the principle of equal pay for work of equal value is far from being applied and the devaluation of women's skilled work has been directly proportional to the increase in employer's profit. Direct and indirect wage discrimination and violation of maternity and paternity rights persist. The precariousness and low wages are particularly serious for women, and the difficulties of articulation between family and professional life are aggravated with the increase and deregulation of working hours. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not possible to discuss equality in the world of work, ignoring that these are the main problems with which the overwhelming majority of women face every day. Take as an example measure 41 of the V National Plan for Gender Equality, Citizenship and Non-discrimination which aims to strengthen with private sector companies the implementation of equality plans. of the 21 companies that responded to the survey no one declared having a plan for equality implemented. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To centralize the discussion of measures to promote equality in the world of work in proposals for women's quotas in the positions of directors for listed companies in the stock market, companies in the public sector and direct and indirect administration of the state is to "store the sun with the sieve" and also to ignore the structural causes of inequalities and discrimination that condition the participation of women in the various spheres of life. Equality in the world of work requires solutions to structural problems, wages, career progression, schedules and maternity and paternity rights and not only symbolic dimensions of women's representation in top positions. The fight for equality between men and women in law and in life, in the world and in work, in society and in the family is an integral part of the most general struggle by a country of progress and social justice. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u174	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u175	Madam President, Mrs and Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Perhaps you can start by saying that you are told by a Member who belongs to a Party where the practical issues of women's participation have never been put. This is because, in fact, the way in which the Green Party operates means that women are not discriminated against in party participation. This to say what? That often the functioning of structures and society is fundamental to promoting the participation of all its citizens. If the Greens have ever failed, in terms of parity, in the election to the Assembly of the Republic, it was precisely because they had two elected women and, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not, of course, have more legitimacy than others to talk about this matter, but we have a practical experience that leads us to share some experiences. in this sense, I would like to say that the risk of discussing quotas is often what can happen, that is, in fact, we forget to go to the root of some problems that lead to women not having the strength that we would like to have and that we think women would like to undertake. This is because, when we talk about the fact that women are the biggest victims of unemployment, when we talk about the fact that women are the biggest victims of low wages, when we talk about the fact that women are discriminated against in the world of work, when we talk about the world of work where the availability of people is a key factor, and we know that it is often easier for men, even within the family, to have or engage more in this availability than women themselves, we have to actually question the root of problems and how our labour market works. And there are those who do not want to discuss this, there are even many Members in the Assembly of the Republic who have contributed to higher levels of unemployment, lower wages and greater effective discrimination. E, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, questions have to be said as they are. We are now discussing a part of the problem, the issue of quotas. I must also say that at the time, the Greens voted against quotas for women's participation in the electoral lists, most likely because of their concrete knowledge of the Party. Still, what the government here is doing is proposing parity quotas for listed companies in the stock market and for the State's Business Sector. The Greens consider that this is not the same discussion because, if it is true that, with regard to the electoral lists, citizens can make an option on the basis of the many criteria they understand, including the greater or lesser participation of women, and therefore they can judge political parties also on the basis of this factor, in what concerns companies cannot do that judgment. The Greens therefore see no harm in the fact that there is a « push» in this case by the Assembly of the Republic, so that this participation at the level of the administrations and the highest positions can indeed be done. Moreover, other attempts were made, in a non-binding way, and did not result. And in this particular case, with no result, we see no problem in which a...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u176	Madam Member, I would ask you to try the conclusion of your speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u177	Madam President, it is not a test here, it is a practice. As I said, in this particular case, we do not see any problem in which the Assembly of the Republic can, in fact, approve a diploma to establish these quotas, thus contributing to this equality at the level of the business world. [[P.S. Members' applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u178	Mr André Silva has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u179	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mrs. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The NAP will vote in favour of these two legislative initiatives that follow the path of equality.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u180	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u181	The truth is that we are increasingly used to expel inequality and discrimination from the doors of this plenary. We are 230 people perfectly able to reflect on society that we want to leave to future generations and we know that we want a conscious, free, fair and inclusive society based on participation, respect and equality. This society does not exist yet. If the definition of equality policies and the promotion of equality between women and men are, in fact, fundamental tasks of the State, it will also be our duty to ensure that they are validated by our parliamentary decisions. It is unthinkable that in the 21st century there is still such a small representation of women in the various organs of the Portuguese business sector. And it is unthinkable for us to continue to postpone the fight against this historical discrimination experienced by women. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, more than 60 organisations and 130 personalities have in recent days signed an open letter calling for Parliament's approval of this proposal. This civil society movement only reveals that we are talking about dignity and human rights here and today. The NAP does not want business to be part of this reality. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u182	You have the floor for a new speech, Mr Under-Secretary-General Eduardo Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u183	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a piece of an agenda for equality at work and in businesses and it will have components as a law to combat wage disparities, which we undertake to present, as initiatives on parenthood and on combating gender segregation in the image of professions. But you will agree, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the size of representations requires active measures. That was the case in the political world in this Parliament. In 2002 this Parliament was different than it is today and I mean that today it is better to reflect Portuguese society. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Local power was different before the law of 2006, today we have better local power. The regulatory entities were different before the 2013 law, I now like more of the composition of the management of the regulatory entities. The World Economic Forum tells us that, if nothing is done in the business world, it will take 170 years to have full equality in the developed countries. That is why what we want to do here is what Germany did, which adopted a similar law five years ago, and where gender participation rose from 11 % to 24 % in listed companies. In France, which adopted it in 2011, the increase was from 10 % to 34 % in ACC 40.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u184	Mr. Minister, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u185	In Italy, which adopted it in 2011, this resulted in a rise of 3 % to 24 % in large Italian companies. Self-regulation is certainly motivated by the best reasons, but reality shows us that it is not enough, and that is why in Portugal there is a woman in 46 companies to preside is unacceptable. In a country where there are only 12 % women in listed companies in the stock market, it is a country in which I do not recognize myself. It is to improve this country that counts with the participation of all and all. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u186	Mrs. Members, the joint debate on the proposal for a law No 52 / XIII ( 2 ) is thus concluded. ( a ) and draft law 406 / XIII ( 2. (a) (BE) and we take the opportunity to say goodbye to the Deputy Minister and to the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs. We looked at draft resolution No 409 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government define a strategy for State responsibility in the management of Portuguese sporting heritage ( PSD ). Mrs Helga Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u187	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Draft resolution No 409 / XIII ( 2. a ), presented by the PSD, today under discussion, is a clear sign that synergies and contributions between the various institutions in the field of sport can contribute positively to the effectiveness and legislative adequacy. In particular, I speak of the 12th Sport Working Group conference. the Commission, in April 2016, in the Assembly of the Republic, with the theme High sport performance, Olympic and Paralympic project Rio 2016 and challenges for the next Olympic cycles. On the basis of the reflections and contributions of this conference, the PSD Parliamentary Group considered it appropriate to recommend to the Government that it define a strategy of State responsibility in the management of Portuguese sports heritage. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Portuguese sports heritage includes all material and immaterial memory to the practice and the sport phenomenon. We cannot only look at heritage as mere objects or things, we all recognize the relevance that sports heritage represents in the construction of the identity and belonging of many communities as a factor of integration and social inclusion. An example of this is the thousands of non-profit sports associations, spread throughout the country, with a single objective: to promote physical activity and active citizenship habits to about 2 million practitioners. Sports associations are true by the aggregators who, by themselves, represent an incommensurable material and immaterial heritage. The PSD Parliamentary Group believes that it is necessary to outline a strategy to minimize the risks of loss and deterioration of national historical, cultural and sporting heritage, often unique. The lack of preservation of this heritage means the loss of our historical identity. In 2012, an important sign was given with the creation of the National Sports Museum, but it is not enough, Mrs and Mrs. Members, it is important to create conservation policies in order to ensure the enjoyment of Portuguese sports heritage. The PSD Parliamentary Group, in committee on several occasions, alerted the Secretary of State of Sport to the need for the preservation of Portuguese sporting heritage and, in particular, Ms. Ladies and gentlemen, you have only managed to raise awareness of this issue by the Secretary of State, who said you had become aware of it. Well, this is not enough and the PSD Parliamentary Group, with the presentation of this draft resolution, intends to raise awareness this time of the Members who are part of the governmental majority so that a clear signal from Parliament is given to define an integrated strategy of State responsibility in the management of Portuguese sports heritage, to create a working group to study, evaluate and propose strategic guidelines and to have a broad discussion. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u188	Mr António Cardoso has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u189	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Sport heritage is an important component of the life and history of peoples. It is up to the State to protect and value this heritage. As such, this should define a strategy of responsibility in the management of this heritage. in this sense, when we talk about national sports heritage, we talk about a heritage that begins in buildings dedicated over the years to support and sport practice. We are also talking about its filling, material and immaterial, closely linked, no doubt, to the life of the collectives, but also to our local communities. As such, we welcome the opportunity to present this draft resolution. However, the Socialist Party believes that a great commitment must be made to preserve our sporting heritage in its different aspects. It is a heritage with an incalculable dimension and value. According to data from the Portuguese Confederation of Culture, Recreation and Sport Communities, there are about 3000 non-profit sports associations in the national territory. In this regard, it is also important to note the undeniable contribution that has been made by the National Sports Museum to initiate the lifting of the national sports heritage. But this is a task that cannot be accomplished by a single entity. The permanent contact with the various sports associations, within the context of culture and heritage, allows you to have an idea of the espolio that exists from north to south, from the interior to the coast and in the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira, so all the benches are sensitized and alerted to this pressing issue. Recognizing the need to preserve national sports heritage recently, the Government, through Mr. Secretary of State for Youth and Sport, announced the launch of a programme to modernise and rehabilitate the sports park of clubs and local grassroots associations, which will also meet the recommendations listed in this initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u190	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u191	The draft resolution under discussion is therefore very much against what is necessary to do, but which will only be possible through the full participation of the whole association movement. As such, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group believes that they should still be involved in this national plan to protect sports heritage the National Sport Council, sports federations and INATEL. We also understand that it is necessary to promote the creation of a national heritage inventory platform managed by the public sports administration services, a platform, which will allow the insertion of the existing heritage and identified by sports and cultural entities, and even by individuals, thus allowing access to a single national database for the treatment and location of the heritage. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have no doubt that it is necessary to establish a national strategy for managing national sports heritage. But we also have no doubt that this Parliamentary Group and the Government have the strength of will needed to, rather than recommend, bring the protection of the national sports heritage to the podium that undoubtedly deserves. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u192	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u193	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are here today discussing an initiative on the management of sports heritage and we cannot talk about the same subject without talking about the right to sport, a right to which all the population should have access, regardless of their economic or social conditions. Sports practice is a decisive factor in improving quality of life, it is indispensable for the education and integral training of each one, as well as promoting health for all, and also promoting social integration and the development of social sociability. We understand that sport must be properly integrated into the entire development policy of the country in order to fulfil the realization of the right to sport, enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. An integration that goes through the conservation, maintenance and requalification of Portuguese sports heritage, but also through the guarantee of conditions to all for sports practice, as well as to clubs and athletes, who are the main ones responsible for the construction of sports memories and for building the Portuguese sports heritage that we are talking about today. It also has a special role in this history the sporting associative movement, made up of its vast majority by small neighborhood and village clubs, which have lived — we cannot help but say — difficult times. Difficulties that are not tied to their financing problems, the worsening of living conditions and the deregulation of working hours of their leaders and volunteers, of that which was the amendment of the law of urban lease, especially in the time of the PSD Government and the CDS, as well as how their action is understood, when these clubs, after all, develop a very important social function of public service, materially uninterested, ensuring the framework and integration of a significant number of children and young people. We understand that it is important to preserve the Portuguese sports heritage, which is part of our history and the sport journey of our country, and to do so must involve a wide range of institutions, entities, clubs and associations. But it is also important to ensure the conditions so that athletes, clubs and federations can contribute to the enrichment of our country's sports heritage.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u194	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u195	For this, it is necessary to affirm the irreplaceable role of sports clubs and the whole association movement in the promotion and development of sports practice, namely the federation, which is, in many respects, responsible for the construction of this same heritage that we are discussing today, here. It is essential to promote policies to democratize access to sport in order to ensure the generality of the population conditions of access to regular sports practice, responding to the needs of women, men, children and young people, in their different stages of life, thus contributing to education, training, culture, socialization, health, quality of life and healthy filling of leisure time. This is exactly the way the PCP will continue to defend. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u196	For an intervention, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u197	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, my compliments. I begin by welcoming this initiative of the PSD, which is an important initiative and which brings to the discussion something that is little talked about but which really has a relevance that needs to be brought to the public square. It is clear that, despite increasing awareness of the importance of sport practice, both at the level of physical and mental health and even social interaction, which is one of its important components, and also of its historical and philosophical importance, which is obviously in the genesis of sport and which so often reveals the identity of a people and a country, as is said in the draft resolution that we now appreciate, there is still much to be done and there is still much to do before this matter and in this matter. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u198	I wanted to say that sport must be intensified. Access to sport should be intensified and even considered, in terms of education, a way to encourage even more in schools. On the other hand, there is also a need for aid, not only for economic and financial reasons, to clubs and federations which are often not just for money they need, but for other support that all of us, if we can, should give. Moreover, this is a subject which, as I have already said, is far from being on the political and media agenda and, therefore, heritage, the Portuguese sports sport, which is one of the components of our cultural matrix — it is also part of it — must be preserved and protected. We therefore believe that the CDS should be associated with this PSD initiative. We were pleased that the Government could indeed present this integrated strategy of State responsibility in the management of Portuguese sports heritage. We are available for discussion and to make our contribution in the context of the public discussion that the Government is expected to make with the indicated entities and, above all, in this House. We will be there to support this initiative and to make the debate that is needed in this area, not forgetting that physical activity and sport are really very important for both the development of society and the human being. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u199	The next item is Mr Pedro Filipe Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u200	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate here has been launched by the PSD Parliamentary Group is a debate that has its relevance, firstly, because it appeals to the memory we have of sports activity at its most diverse levels. And do it even, I believe, not leaving the most humble movements on earth, i.e., many neighborhood and parish associations that promoted the entry into sports of many young people and many young people, and even many less young people, and in the context of a collective memory of our country, in regard to sports practice. It is a good intention and I think it could be more ambitious in applying these ideas. The Left Block considers it essential to value those who have dedicated their lives so that generations and generations could have access to sport. Many associations were founded over decades around sports activity, around cultural activity and around the ability to gather community efforts to promote, among children, practices that could improve their quality of life. It is obvious that the management of sports heritage and its memory goes far beyond this more daily, corrective activity, closer to the populations. Today, both in the Olympics and in the federations, there is a professional activity that demonstrates the leaps that have been made in our country in this field. In any case, we cannot let the spaces, memories, activities that locally made their way fall to the ground. I wanted to end this intervention by calling for some memory and some historical memory of the sports agents and the general population of what these last four years of PSD and CDS governance. We had a brutal attack on public funding for sport, particularly small sports associations, made directly by reducing support for the federations, and indirectly by reducing support for the authorities and freguencies, which were often the guarantor of this day-to-day activity. We also had an attack on people's income and, therefore, on the ability to have the means to take their children, their young ones, the younger ones, to have a more carefree and relaxed sport practice of economic restrictions. We have also had an attack on labour rights, restricting, and much, the ability of people to enjoy these spaces in their free time, and now to the ephemeris that often marked this sport memory.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u201	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u202	They remember well the holidays that were eliminated by PSD and CDS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u203	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u204	... which also retain, in itself, sports activity marking ephemerides. For this reason, we recognize some merit in the intentions of the PSD and in the launch of this debate, but we reject at all this attempt to wash the image and memory of what they have done in a recent government. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u205	To conclude this debate, Mr Pedro Pismão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u206	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would just like to highlight the importance of the topic that has been brought to us today, for its novelty and for the work that has been carried out in our country in recent years in this regard, since the work and dynamics of the National Sports Museum and its highly qualified technicians, which deserves our attention here and which has been transferred in 2012 to the place where today, to the theme of the International Monuments and Sites Day, last year, which was precisely about heritage and sport. Our goal with this draft resolution is precisely to enhance the cultural and social importance of sport and to value its historical and cultural heritage. But, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, because we do not want to 'wash' anything, on the contrary, we want to highlight what is best done, I cannot let go of the opportunity to tell you that it was the last government that created a programme called the National Sport Programme for All that financed small clubs and small groups to increase sports practice. This deserves a positive highlight, we are very proud of the work done and we are sure that we will stick to the object of this draft resolution, which is related to the preservation and valorization of our collective historical memory, which, in sport, has much to give and to be proud. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u207	Mrs. Members, we have reached the end of the debate on draft resolution No 409 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a). We will enter the last item on our agenda, which is part of the joint debate on draft resolution No 624 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the reduction of judicial costs ( BE ) of the projects of lein.o 399 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates the mission unit for the review of the judicial costs regime ( CFP ), 408 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Ensure access to the law and courts by making the benefit of more comprehensive judicial costs ( PAN) and 409 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Ensure access to the law and the courts by introducing amendments to the Rules of Procedure ( PAN), in general, and to draft resolutions 659 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the assessment and revision of the Rules of Procedure ( PSD ), 660 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the study, evaluation and implementation of new measures that improve the conditions of access to law and justice ( PS ) and 666 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government review the system of access to law and courts and the Rules of Procedure ( CDS-PP ). Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u208	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In an action to establish parental responsibilities, if there is agreement in the hearing of parents, the costs are €306 for each parent. in an action to challenge the cause of dismissal, legal costs may reach more than one thousand euros. in an action of opposition to a pen which is, for example, made by the tax, of course not paying undue tolls in the order of 250 €, the court rate is 306 €. I give you these three cases that are exemplary of what is today a very important problem that we have here to deal with. This shows how costs work, in particular, as a disincentive, as an obstacle to access to law and justice and, above all, to people who need justice most in order to defend their rights, the poorest people. We know that this situation is fighting on several fronts, it is true, and that the reduction of costs is just one of those fronts, of course. This line of approach to the issue cannot be disconnected from the review, a certain revision, of the legal aid regime. I would like to say in this House, on behalf of the Left Block, that we will soon present a legislative initiative that proposes, precisely, important adjustments to the legal support regime, strengthening its democratizing scope of justice. But we do not share the view that the value of the costs must be a hostage to the policy of judicial support and vice versa. Both must be reviewed so that justice is even a public good, in the service of all and of all. It is therefore an objective in itself to reduce judicial costs and must comply with the relative justice criteria, focusing primarily on procedural areas such as those of the examples I have just mentioned and that the Left Block includes precisely in its draft resolution. I would like to conclude by saying that the Left Block is fully available to do everything necessary to bring about a convergence of the various proposals which are presented here today — I would like to make it clear in this respect — provided that this convergence, that is, whatever is necessary for this, results in an effective commitment to drop the legal costs and that the decision is not eternal in time. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u209	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u210	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When, just over two months ago, we discussed the State Budget and a proposal by the CFP was rejected which lowered the unit of procedural accounts by €2—that is, a small drop in legal costs—no one would say that, two months later, there would be such a general consensus in this House in order to reduce the legal costs.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u211	But this is not about your proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u212	But it is worth more late than ever and I am happy that today everyone agrees that the high cost of judicial costs is an element, among others, of deterring access to justice and that effectively leads to the denial of justice, for economic reasons, to a very significant number of citizens. It is true that costs are not the only problem of access to justice, there are others. There is a problem of accessibility, there is a problem of laxity, there is a problem of fees to bear for those who have to contend, there is the notorious insufficiency of the law access regime and the courts, to legal assistance, but indeed the costs have an exorbitant value and this cannot be ignored. The fundamental right to access to justice does not have the degree of protection that other fundamental social rights have in Portugal. There is a National Health Service, there is a public school and, however, there is a fact to be considered: most citizens, who earn a average salary, do not have economic conditions to support a judicial approach and that is something that the State cannot ignore and must reflect on this matter. What we propose is that the Assembly of the Republic should call upon this reflection and the adoption of measures on this matter. We know that there is a significant set of draft resolutions under discussion which make several recommendations to the Government. It is a legitimate way to recommend a lot to the Government in this area, but we believe that, apart from the fact that we can recommend to the Government that certain measures be taken, with regard to the substantial modification of the judicial costs regime, even with the budgetary implications that it cannot fail to have, because, if there are no budgetary implications, there will surely be no substantial change in the legal costs regime that has real effects on people's lives — indeed this House, which has budgetary sovereignty, which must call for reflection on this matter and promote a necessary consideration that leads to effective changes in judicial costs. But let us not just think about it and that it may be here in this House that a substantial change in the legal cost regime is being discussed. It therefore seems to us to be advised that this matter can be discussed in committee. Instead of leaving here four approved recommendations, which overlap in this area, and considering that there are draft laws under discussion, it was desirable for the Commission to go down to debate on the subject — until there are proposals for hearings already adopted in 1. the Commission — for a short period of time, so that within the framework of 1. the Commission, by conducting hearings and reflecting on this matter, can establish consensus necessary for a short-term modification of the judicial costs regime. so that we take the initiative, as far as we are concerned, to propose the fall of our bill to 1. the Commission, for a period of 30 days for this purpose, and we would consider it desirable that this could happen with the various legislative initiatives presented here and under discussion. It does not seem to us that the House, in such a serious matter, should favour a set of resolutions which, without due weighting, could even possibly take on contradictory aspects. There would be some sort of resolution cacophony here that would not prestigious this House in this matter of relevance, without depressor, of course, for the content of each of the initiatives presented. Our proposal, Madam President, therefore, is that we discuss a common initiative on procedural costs which can have a substantial effect on people's lives and on the significant reduction of costs. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u213	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the PAN, Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u214	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The current legislation does not fully implement the fundamental right of access to law. This idea is consensual between the various parties in the Assembly of the Republic. It is unquestionable that there are many Portuguese people who do not have access to law, which happens because, on the one hand, they are not covered by the benefit of legal support due to the rules in force and, on the other hand, they do not have the economic capacity to cope with the very high judicial costs, thus being prevented from accessing justice. For example, a worker with an income of €1000 per month and having to bear the daily expenses, will not be able to pay a common court fee of €600, in addition to payment of fees to a lawyer. This situation is of particular relevance when there are cases involving minors, which therefore aim at their best interests, or when working processes are concerned, as is the case, for example, with unlawful dismissal actions. The NAP bills aim to ensure that citizens, regardless of their economic condition, have the opportunity to appeal to the court and to see their rights guaranteed. in this sense, among other things, we propose: exemption from costs of the proceedings concerning minors; exemption in certain work processes, exemption from payment of the rate of establishment of assistant in the criminal proceedings and the increase of the fine in case of evil litigation. In addition, we suggest that the possibility of phased payment of costs is replaced by the payment of a reduced rate of justice and that the eligibility criteria for legal aid are revised. We want to open the debate on this subject and, in the field of expertise, to deepen the subject. Recognizing the merit of the recommendations made in this area and which are in line with the concerns of the NAP, however, we believe that this issue should be taken up by the Assembly of the Republic and discussed and worked more closely in committee with the collaboration of all parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u215	For an intervention, Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u216	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The conditions for a serious, rigorous and transparent assessment of the Rules of Procedure are now met and the PSD has submitted a draft resolution recommending that the Government evaluate, review and discuss this regulation. This debate cannot be held outside Parliament and must involve all judicial operators. We are aware of the importance of improving the procedural cost model. Access to justice is essential for a democratic regime and for ensuring the effective realization of the rule of law. Our Constitution enshrines the right of all citizens to access to justice. This right cannot be denied because of the lack of economic conditions, and it is the responsibility of the State to guarantee equal opportunities for all citizens. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, so far, the counterpart for the provision of justice services has always settled in the existence of costs charged to citizens. The great challenge facing modern societies is to know exactly what the fairest and fairest model is. PSD is available to make this reflection serious and unprejudiced. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, despite the serious economic situation the country has experienced, we have not stopped implementing the reform of the legal organisation in force. Fortunately, on this subject, the Government acknowledged that it was a good reform and not only did it not revert as it has still adjusted it. Madam President, the portrait of justice has been done by lawyers, judges and judicial officials. We are not insensitive to the values of judicial costs, we are not indifferent to the restrictive criteria of access to the right of everything or nothing, which allow all access to some and inaccessibility to others. Limiting the discussion of the procedural costs to the decrease of its value, in addition to a reducing vision, is a missed opportunity to rethink the whole model. We do not have a purely economical view of justice, which makes it dependent on the cost of judicial support for the revenue of the costs. The revision of the Rules of Procedure is, for us, a step in a stairway of our building of justice that began to be built by the PSD and must be completed. The review of access to law and the new procedural regime that makes justice fairer, faster and closer to citizens are the next steps on this path. This is the way we want to go to Portugal and to the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u217	Mr Fernando Anastácio has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u218	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by recalling a constitutional precept: "All people are guaranteed access to law and courts to defend their legally protected rights and interests, and justice cannot be denied due to lack of economic means. » This is Article 20. the, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. It is in respect of this constitutional principle that this debate should be held. Access to law and to courts is one of the pillars of the realization of the democratic rule of law. It is a responsibility of the democratic rule of law to ensure that citizens have a public system of justice that they want to be efficient, speedy and sustainable in their different dimensions. The Government Programme points to the re-evaluation of justice policies, re-evaluation that has concrete expression in measures already implemented, that are examples of the re-activation of closed courts, projects and simplification programmes, such as, for example, the More and Closer Court and Justice, initiatives that are accompanied by an inversion of the policies of the previous Government, in particular in strengthening budgetary conditions and human resources, and among them, particularly at the level of officials and magistrates. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the importance of this issue is clearly evident in the multiplicity of draft laws and draft resolutions that are currently under discussion. But it is also to record, and as a positive factor, that everyone, but everyone, even those who had government responsibilities over the past four years, have woken up for this problem which is access to law and the cost of judicial costs. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we value this debate, essentially what it has to do with it. There is today in Portuguese society a broad consensus on the need to assess the regime of access to law, the effective cost of justice for citizens, the value of judicial costs, in short, the conditions under which the constitutional principle of justice is guaranteed for all. The Government, in the person of the Minister of Justice, made a public commitment to promote this assessment. To this end, the Government has already set up a working group which has the task of evaluating the system of access to law, the issues of financing the system and legal support. It is necessary, in fact, to carry out this study, as well as to evaluate the current Rules of Procedure, to involve the judicial operators in this evaluation, as well as to ensure effective follow-up by Parliament of the work of this group. The majority of legislative initiatives now under discussion converge on this need. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is committed to this debate and is available to, with the other parliamentary parties and groups, in the field of expertise, contribute to expressing this broad consensus and find the best way to enable Parliament to contribute to the strengthening of this pillar of the democratic rule of law, which is the guarantee of access to justice to all Portuguese citizens, regardless of their economic condition. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u219	Mr Vania Dias da Silva, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u220	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin this intervention with a practical case, of those basic ones, of the faculty, but which speaks for itself and well illustrates what we are talking about today. A person with a monthly salary of €1000 who has a travel accident and whose insurance company does not take responsibility, if he has to try an action against the insurance company for an award that he intends to be €40,000, because the damage to it amounts to, only to start the action must pay the State, for costs, more than €700, and, as soon as it is notified for that, he must pay another amount equal to €700. So, a person who earns 1000 €, suddenly, to put an action because of a traffic accident in which he is not guilty, has to spend the modem amount of 1400 €, and is not yet paying costs or fees to the lawyer. This same person, if you want to regulate parental responsibilities in relation to a minor child, will have to pay at least, and if there is no incident, 600 €, which in a monthly salary of 1000 € is very significant. In order to say that it is not from now on that the Portuguese system of access to law needs a thorough review and that it takes the cross-sectional support of all, from civil society to the political class, to judicial operators, but that it is a discussion that must be held inevitably and urgently. Despite the fact that the CDS also defends the revision of the Access to Law and the Tribunals regime, the central problem, in our opinion, is in the reform of the procedural cost system, which was made in 2008 and which, on the basis of an economic and rationalization criterion, has ultimately resulted in a widespread increase in procedural costs and which, in fact, is the fruit of the financial bailout's juice under which we have lived recently, has not yet been able to correct. Now is the time to do it. It is true that it is unacceptable in a democratic state that only the richest or very, very poor have access to justice, leaving out, I would say, the overwhelming majority of the Portuguese population. This is to deny a constitutionally consecrated right, which the CDS believes must not continue to do. We understand that this is the time for us to do so, especially on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. This generalized reduction in procedural costs will have gains for everyone: for the citizen, who no longer sees himself with the frequent denial of a fundamental right, and for the State, who will not have to bear too many charges with access to the right of a substantial part of the population. What is more, yesterday at the regimental hearing of the Minister of Justice, and although we know that the reactivation of the working group with the judicial operators is imminent, there is no guarantee on the part of the Government that the costs are objectively reduced. What matters here, therefore, is to realize that, of course, the system has to be balanced and sustainable and we find ways of balancing that not only at the expense of people and businesses. This is therefore due to a reduction in costs, guided, of course, by more or less creative solutions that seek alternative sources of financing. So what do we propose? We propose that the working group set up to review access to the right should conclude its work so that legislative amendments can be accommodated in the State budget for 2018 at the same time as we recommend that their conclusions be submitted to the Assembly of the Republic. This is because we believe that the Assembly of the Republic cannot be furnished with this process, and we agree with the CFP. This has to be done by all and must be done especially in the Assembly of the Republic, so we have already asked for the hearing of the judicial operators. On the other hand, and close to the end, Madam President, we also suggest that the system of access to law be reviewed on the basis of the determination of criteria for economic insufficiency. Finally, and because we recognize the urgency of the matter, we recommend that some surgical but relevant changes are now equated. Some will have a budgetary impact, but others will not, for example, have the application of a reduced rate of justice in the proceedings on the state of persons, the modification of the time limit to require part costs or the exemption of legal fees in executions for collecting part costs. They are basic things, but they are literally questions of justice, and so we liked them to be ahead. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u221	Mrs. Members, as the PSD still has time, Mrs Sara Madruga from the Costa has signed up to intervene. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u222	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Of course, the PSD agrees with the need to review and reassess access to law and access to justice. However, allow me some clarification of the previous speeches by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Mr Fernando Anastácio, if there is any area in which there is no doubt that there has been a continuation of policies with this government, as you know, and well, it is that of justice. The Government has not reversed the law of the judicial organization, only adjusted it, which reveals its error in its initial intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u223	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u224	Mr António Filipe, allow me also to disagree with your comparison of justice with the National Health Service. As you well know, the obligation of the State to guarantee universality comes only from our Constitution, i.e. to allow universal access of all citizens to justice, not the obligation of gratuity.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u225	That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u226	Costs prevent access to justice!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u227	It is because of this obligation of the Constitution that we are currently reflecting on the new model of procedural costs and we are not talking about free access to justice. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u228	To close the debate, Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u229	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the end of this debate, we want to give the initiative that we have had to schedule this issue, which brings together a number of convergences that are worth pointing out today. First of all, we point to a convergence on the fact that the fulfilment of a fundamental right, which is the right to justice and to courts, is at stake. Secondly, we have a convergence on the fact that we are working on one of the essential aspects of a democratic rule of law, which is precisely the public service of justice. Thirdly, of course, because we are working with a whole set of essential mechanisms for universality in access to justice, we are talking about democracy. That is why, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we want to converge — I said it recently and I want to reiterate it with all the political forces of this House of the Republic to comply with the Constitution in this matter and to ensure that justice is effectively a public good, as it should be. Therefore, we will endeavour to commit ourselves to the Commission so that there will be results and a timetable defined so that the revision of the Rules of Procedure will effectively revert to democratic citizenship in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-16.u230	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe we have reached the end of this debate. The Socialist Party had given the indication that it would no longer intervene and there is a customary practice in Parliament that the closure of this kind of debate is done by the order in which the initiatives take place. So, let's get him locked up. We will resume our work tomorrow at 10 a.m. with the following agenda: firstly, the discussion of Bill No 53/ XIII ( 2 ) will take place. ( a ) — Review the securities law sanction scheme, transpose Directive No 2014 / 57 / EU and Implementing Directive ( EU ) No 2015 / 2392, and adapt the Portuguese law to Regulation ( EU ) No 596 / 2014. The joint discussion of Bill No 56 / XIII ( 2 ) follows. ( a ) — Adopts a transitional measure to reduce the special payment on account provided for in Article 106. the Code of Tax on the Income of Collective Persons and Bill No. 402 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — creates the conditions for the replacement of the special payment on account by a simplified scheme based on technical-economic coefficients by sector of activity ( CFP ). We continue with the discussion of draft resolution No 618 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish mechanisms to simplify the procedure for reimbursement of social mobility allowance ( PS ) and Bill 407 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Simplifies and prevents possible fraud in the allocation of social mobility allowance to residents in the autonomous regions ( BE ). The discussion of Bill No. 316 / XIII ( 2 ) follows. ( a ) — Approves the Extraordinary Tax Credit to Investment II ( CFEI II ) ( CDS-PP ) Finally, we will discuss draft resolution No 665 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — In order to prevent the use of nuclear energy ( The Greens ). We will also have the usual vote at 12 noon. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 7 minutes.]]
