ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mrs and others. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of authority to open the galleries. Mr. Secretary Duarte Pacheco will report on the file you entered the Bureau. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, information which entered the Bureau and were admitted, the following legislative initiatives: Bill No. 60 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Extraordinary housing support for all families affected by the August 2016 fires in the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( ALRAM ), which falls to 11. the Commission ; drafts of lein.o 393 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amend the Tax Code on the Income of Collective Persons ( IRC ), taking up measures contained in the reform adopted by Law No 2 / 2014 of 16 January ( PSD ), 394 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Second amendment to Decree-Law No 120 / 2015 of 30 June ( PSD ), 395 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Establishs mechanisms for alerting the estate of the returned state and in ruins and allows its use by local authorities ( Seventh amendment to Decree-Law No 280/2007 of 7 August 2007 ) ( BE) and 396 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Clarifies the holder of economic interest in the rates for card-based payment transactions ( amendment to the Seal Tax Code, approved by Law No 150 / 99 of 11 September ) ( PS ), which falls to 5. the Commission ; draft resolutions Nos 643 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends measures to strengthen and protect the National Ecological Reserve ( National Ecological Reserve ( National Ecological Reserve ) and to reassess the disinfection of REN ( BE ) land, which falls to 11. the Commission, 644 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Parking guarantee reserved for persons with disabilities ( PCP ), 645 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Consecrate on May 6 as the National Tile Day ( PS ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 646 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Move of the President of the Republic to Belgium ( PAR ) and 647 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government carry out short-term restoration, modernization and preservation of the José Falcão High School building in Coimbra ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 8. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u3	Mrs. Members, today's agenda is completed by the 15th year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure, on the implementation of the medium-term strategy, PNR ( National Reform Programme ). For the opening of the debate, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As you recall, in April we adopted a medium-term strategy, a real agenda for the decade, which is the National Reform Programme. To win the country's structural blockades and to have more growth, better employment and greater equality, we must focus on implementing this medium-term strategy. The first pillar of this strategy concerns the qualification of Portuguese, which still this week the OECD has confirmed as a priority. It was precisely for this purpose that we launched, at the beginning of this school year, the school success promotion program and that we placed in the individualized follow-up of students, through the basic education tutoring program, which is already involving more than 25,000 children. The ambition to improve the qualifications of Portuguese also has to cover the generation that did not, in time, have the opportunity to complete its training. That is why already on March 6th, the Qualification will be launched, a new adult qualification programme, which will associate certification of competences with the creation of customized training paths. The key to our future, the central part to strengthen competitiveness, is innovation, the second pillar of our National Reform Programme. This is the objective of the recently presented Industry 4.0 programme, which we have developed in partnership with the companies of five key clusters of our economy, preparing us to be in line with the new digital revolution. on 23 February, the result of the joint work between the Ministries of Science, Technology and Higher Education and the Ministry of Economics, will present the Interface program, which establishes the bridge between the centres of knowledge production and the business fabric, promoting the transfer of science and technology and strengthening competitiveness through the creation of value. These initiatives demonstrate that the government's commitment in this area is mainly due to the strengthening of investment in Research & Development ( & D ), the support for entrepreneurship, the promotion of the digitisation of the economy and the encouragement of internationalisation. In order to increase the competitiveness of companies, it is also necessary to create conditions for reducing the problems of over-indebted banking, strengthening their own capital and developing alternative financing mechanisms. Right at the beginning of the government, the Business Capitalisation Mission Structure was set up, whose work gave rise to the Capitalisation Programme, which was first implemented in the State Budget for 2017, and will be fully operationalized with the legislation we will consider in the Council of Ministers at the beginning of March so as to enter into force on 1 July, thereby implementing another pillar of our medium-term strategy. The development model we advocate also requires the appreciation of the territory, another of the pillars of the National Reform Programme. Priority was given to the adoption of a new generation of policies that promote the enhancement of resources and environmental sustainability in the sea, in the forest and in the city. in the context of urban mobility, we defined a new model of organization of public road transport, transferring the management of Carris and STCP to the municipalities, while the state concentrates on the investment of rail, the expansion of metro networks, the promotion of electric mobility and, as we announced yesterday, in the implementation of access to areas of entrepreneurship. In addition, the measures taken in the context of the economy of the sea and the forests, two central assets for the economic development of the country, should be highlighted. on the forest side, the government approved and submitted the public debate an effective reform package of the sector. with regard to sea policy, we presented the Strategy for Increasing Port Competitiveness for the next 10 years and adopted legislation that eliminates the bureaucratic context that atrophied the development of aquaculture. next week, we will take another step towards the enhancement of the territory, with the opening of competitions for urban rehabilitation in social districts, an investment of EUR 100 million, to improve its energy efficiency, while preserving the environment and saving in the energy bill of families. But an economy can only be really competitive and sustainable if it helps to strengthen cohesion and reduce inequalities. After years in which levels of poverty and inequality have been systematically worsened, the government has assumed as its mission to respond to these challenges, recovering the income of families, dignifying work and developing quality public services. This is also one of the pillars of the National Reform Programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The State budget for 2016 was marked by the recovery of income, the reduction of tax burden and the replacement of social minimums, marks to which we have continued this year, from the start with the extraordinary increase in pensions, the increase in family allowance and the updating of the national minimum wage. The development of the social state goes through the deepening of the reforms of primary health care and of the continued integrated care. We are also developing new measures aimed at the most vulnerable groups, such as the single provision of disability, which is in public debate, and the opening of 392 beds of continued mental health from next day 1 March. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, there is a key pillar for reducing the cost of context for businesses and simplifying the day-to-day situation of citizens — the modernisation of the State. We will continue to engage in the Simplex+ Programme, which we have recovered, and we will implement our decentralization plan which will enable Portugal to move closer to the territorial cohesion levels of Europe's most advanced democracies. But the State's strategic intervention capacity can only be improved if we rejuvenate the Administration, promote innovation in the public sector and value the exercise of public functions. The replacement of entitlements in maturity and working hours was only a first step. The fight against precariousness, the replacement of career prospects and the creation of competence centres are now our priorities. The Centres of Competences aim to concentrate and enhance qualified competencies in the Public Administration in specialized fields with the aim of reducing external recruitment and thus reducing costs, strengthening knowledge and knowledge within the Administration itself. The first Centre of Skills to be established will be in the area of legal services and will be established by the end of March. in the field of precariousness, we presented last week the report that takes up all the atypical procurement instruments used by the public administration and the business sector of the State and tomorrow will be approved, in the Council of Ministers, the establishment, in each Ministry, of a two-party evaluation committee, in order to analyse, on a case-by-case basis, all situations to identify permanent needs, so that precarious links will lead to real contracts that make work dignified in public functions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is the Government's vision for the future — a qualified, innovative country, with a modern state, a cohesive territory, capitalised companies, decent work and a more equal society. It is this vision that will continue to guide our medium-term political action, which will enable us to implement the reforms that the country really needs to advance and prosper and that we have synthesized in the National Reform Programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u5	You've outlived your time, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u6	I shall now conclude, Mr President. But we don't get satisfied. After years when we only heard about reforms, we are finally reforming. We can't just repeat the mistake... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Members' laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u7	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u8	That's what I'm doing, Mr. President. As I was saying, what we cannot repeat is the mistake of confusing reforms with cuts and structural changes with social conflicts. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The reforms we make are those that the country needs, not to punish the Portuguese, but to all of us have a better future. This is our mission and our commitment: to overcome the blockades that have blocked our development and to build a country with more growth, better employment and greater equality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u9	To begin the debate with Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u10	Mr President, Prime Minister, we were here listening - and recalling in a very close manner the former Prime Minister of the Socialist Party, his predecessor José Socrates. Socrates school is back! Mr Prime Minister has come today for the third time to announce the same programmes, to announce the same measures, of course always with a little bit different to seem new, but basically to confess that we have lost a year and we are today at exactly the same point where we were a year ago, to announce the same things and to confess that they are not executed. [[PSD applause.]] It's the return of the little programs, it's the return of the PowerPoint, it's the return of the fantasy. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, you, for the last time, began by speaking about the qualifications as one of the master beams of the National Reform Programme. Mr Prime Minister, moreover, has given a great deal of prominence to the subject of qualification and knowledge. Do you remember? We all remember his Christmas message, in which he said that the greatest deficit in Portuguese society was knowledge, that we had to look at people's qualifications and we had to leave no one behind. This said Mr. Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you: what was the early school dropout rate in 2016? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u11	Mr President, Mr. Luís Montenegro, a year later, we have more than 100 000 jobs than we had a year ago;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u12	That doesn't matter! It doesn't matter!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u13	... we have a net debt which for the first time has been reduced from 121, 6 % to 120, 6 % of the product — minus one percentage point;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD laughter and protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u14	It doesn't matter!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u15	... we have the lowest deficit of all Portuguese democracy;.... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD laughter and protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u16	It doesn't matter!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u17	... today, we have pensioners with the pension they had full right to, the employees with their full salary and the reduced tax burden for all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u18	It doesn't matter!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u19	Nothing happened? Private companies have increased their investment over the past year by more than 6 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] One year ago, Community funds had been paralyzed and EUR 4 million had arrived at companies; now more EUR 460 million had arrived for investment in companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Ask for the reforms. The National Reform Programme does not change every month, because the National Reform Programme is not a small blank sheet with general ideas, it is a joint set of pillars, programs, measures, which have been executed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And it is very important that, not every 15 days, but at least once a month, I make here the point of implementing the National Reform Programme, so that you realize that this programme is not a reliable conversation but are concrete measures, existing on the ground and with an impact on the lives of people and businesses. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As you know, the statistics on early school dropout have been released today... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u20	... that reveals that, last school year, there was an increase of three tenths in early school dropout. If the question was that, the answer is this: it increased 0, 3 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u21	And whose fault is it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u22	But if it is certainly early to look at the causes, there is one thing that is not early, which is that we are concerned about this. And precisely because we do not intend to leave anyone behind I announced here that we are now going to launch the Qualifica programme, precisely designed to complete the qualification, certification and training of all the adult population who does not complete their normal training cycle. These young people will also be covered by the Qualifica programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u23	He continued to use the floor to formulate questions, questions, requests for clarification, Mr Luís Montenegro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u24	Mr President, Prime Minister, that is, the conversation is more than reliable! It's always the same and always in the same terms.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u25	If it's a four-year program, it's better that the conversation is always the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u26	And the fact of having to repeat it always in the same terms has an explanation: it is that it is really just talk, it is not execution, it does not come to the reality of the life of the people and the life of the country, Mr. Prime Minister. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister died but there he was able to reach the result of the early school dropout in 2016.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u27	Ah, it was an exam! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u28	What Prime Minister did not say was that since 2010 2016 was the first and only year in which abandonment grew. Since 2011 school dropout has decreased from 28 % to 13, 7%, and has decreased every year, Prime Minister. Have you ever wondered what happened in 2016?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u29	They stopped emigration!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u30	Does this have nothing to do with the government's investment in vocational education? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u31	Does this have nothing to do with the revisions of the reforms that have been introduced into the education system? Mr. Prime Minister, this result is not like the result of unemployment, because it actually comes from behind... [[PS laughter.]] ...and has a dynamic that went on. This result actually stems from the policy of this government, which has to do with what Mr. Prime Minister has done. But, Prime Minister, you spoke of qualification and competitiveness. We're talking about qualification. [[Mr. P. João Galamba's laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u32	Talk fast!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u33	Mr Prime Minister assumed that for the first time in six years we lost quality in teaching and that appreciation of public school, after all, has this outcome. But let's talk about another essential component of the National Reform Programme, which Mr Prime Minister also referred to as the competitiveness and financing of our economy. Mr. Prime Minister, Portugal went to the markets today. We made a debt issue from about 630 million euros to five years. You know that in August we paid, under similar conditions, 1, 8 % interest for a similar debt issue and today we paid 2, 75 %,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u34	What happened in the meantime?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u35	... an increase of more than 47 % in the interest cost for the same debt issue.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u36	They want to see you're gonna defend the renegotiation! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u37	We placed EUR 550 million on the market today at seven years. In June we paid 1, 84 %, today we paid 3, 67 % — twice as much, plus 100 %, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u38	And since June there have been only two news about Portugal. Don't you think it's weird?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u39	This means, Mr. Prime Minister, that we are replacing old debt with new debt, being the new one more expensive than the one we are replacing. [[PSD applause.]] Therefore, this means that the path we have been going through to reduce our interest rates has reversed, Mr Prime Minister, that is to say difficulty in financing companies, which means difficulties in financing the State and means that there is a price to be paid because of its economic policy. Aren't you worried about that, Mr. Prime Minister? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u40	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u41	Mr President, Mr Luís Montenegro, I think it is premature to discuss why early school dropout has increased three tenths. There are perhaps a number of reasons that can explain it and I would be able to tell you already one, at the risk of being rushed: it is that as the youth unemployment rate dropped four percentage points, probably many of these young people who have found a place in the labour market have stopped studying. That's right! Open... [[PSD laughter and protests.]] There is a second possible explanation. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u42	Mr. Prime Minister, keep answering when you think there are conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u43	There's a second possible explanation... [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u44	Please, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u45	Mr. President, I would like to respond when the PSD bench is less nervous so I can hear what I have to say. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It certainly reacts this way because they do not know that the statistics refers to young people who, without completing 9. the year, they are neither in training nor in school activity. As the number of young people in the labour market has increased significantly, some of them are certainly there. There is another possible explanation, which is probably to be taken into account, which is put forward by the OECD in its report, by stressing that high retention rates produce an increase in early school dropout. Well, like in the four years in which VV. Ex.as governed the retention rate has always been rising it is likely that there will now be greater dropout. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u46	Mr. Prime Minister, when you consider that you have the conditions to continue, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u47	There is also a third possible explanation that has to do with the reorientation we have made of active employment policies, so as not to disguise for statistical purposes false stages with effective training for those seeking training for inclusion in the labour market. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mr Debt, and at the beginning of the discussion, I would like to remind you of the following: in the four years in which you live. They ruled, debt increased by 32, 2 percentage points. [[PSD protests.]] The debt increased from 96, 9 % to 129 % of the product. this year, as you know, the 0, 7% increase in debt was explained only by the effort we had to make to solve the problems of the banking system that they left to solve, but for the first time we lowered the net debt and we had one of the largest primary balances of our entire budget history. As regards today's issue, I can tell you, without breaking any confidence, that at the end of the morning I spoke to the President of the IGCP (Instituto de Gesão da Tesouraria e do Credito Público), who was, in fact, quite pleased... [[Oh!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u48	... with the result of this issue, since it was the issue of a five-year obligation where the market has been difficult, where the placing was made at a price above what was practised on the secondary market, having had a high demand and a full placing of the debt, having had the effect of dragging the secondary market price and, above all, having had a reduction in the interest rate, which, having been down 5 basis points early in the morning, had ended down seven basis points, moreover, of what happened to the debts of other countries in the same situation as Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u49	Mr Luís Montenegro, who is the spokesperson for the PSD at the moment, continues to speak. [[He's not the spokesman, he's the paramentary leader!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u50	I believe that Mr President knows that I have been a parliamentary leader of this bench for six years. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Whenever Mr. Prime Minister gets a little disturbed, we already have your comment, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, retention rates have dropped...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u51	I've grown up!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u52	... in recent years and your reasoning is a little pilgrim, because by using otherwise what Mr. Prime Minister meant, youth unemployment increases if young people are to study. Well, Mr. Prime Minister, your thesis! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u53	On the contrary, that's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u54	On the contrary, it does not exist!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u55	For the Prime Minister to understand, I will explain to him: you said that youth unemployment fell and school dropout went up, there were fewer students, and I am telling you that you mean, on the contrary, youth unemployment increases when young people are going to study.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u56	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u57	Mr. Prime Minister, you really need to talk to the Ministry of Education and better understand what is being done in the national education system. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] But on debt, Mr. Prime Minister is running away. The question is that we are paying more interest on the debt we are now hiring than we were before, and in place of the one we had before. Consider the case of reimbursements to the International Monetary Fund. Earlier, we were anticipating the refund because we were going to market for the money by paying less interest; today, Mr. Prime Minister made the decision to repay the International Monetary Fund and goes to the market to pay more interest than that corresponding to the reimbursement of the International Monetary Fund. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, the management of your government's debt is a disaster and you have to wake up for this problem because he's going to blow up your hands. Do not doubt that. I do not want to end the debate without questioning the General Deposit Box, Prime Minister. The Court of Auditors decided that the Government should send the 2012 restructuring plan to the Assembly of the Republic, the reports of the quarterly audits from 2012 to 2015 and the opinions of the General Financial Inspection. The question I put to you is direct: will the government comply with the judicial decision or will it not comply with it? Mr Prime Minister, the second question I want to put to you has to do with news that came today to the public and that demonstrate that the Minister of Finance lied about the resignation process of the former President of the General Deposit Box.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u58	Perhaps today it was discovered who was the author of the escape of the documents reserved for the Committee of Inquiry!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u59	When Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, President of the PSD, at times asked him if he knew what the explanation for the resignation of the former President of the Box was, Mr Prime Minister said that he even found that strange resignation and that he had no explanation. In fact, their response was very close to the strangeness expressed by the PSD bench. Mr Prime Minister, I ask you the following question: is it not strange that your Minister of Finance has hidden the content of the correspondence he has exchanged with the former President of the Box or stranger? Or, after all, did Mr. Prime Minister know? We have a committee of inquiry that we value. We are not the ones who are boycotting the work of the Committee of Inquiry, you are! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u60	And who made the leak for the newspapers? Help us find out!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u61	We are not the ones who do not want to find out the truth about the financial system, we are not the ones who are distracting attention with a legislative package on the bank that just wants to be a smokescreen. No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! [[PS protests.]] We are committed to ensuring that the Parliamentary Committee on Inquiry can ascertain the truth to the latest consequences. But there are facts and news that are public and that lack a full explanation from the government leader.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u62	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u63	We already know that you do not want to have access to the documentation and even want the Commission not to have access to it either. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u64	And who made the leak for the paper? Help find out who made the escape!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u65	We already know that you reject the fact that you are a member of the Committee of Inquiry to assist your work, but at least let the Prime Minister speak on behalf of the Government and tell the country, once and for all, what is happening in the Box. This Committee of Inquiry only exists because the Government has not provided Parliament with information. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u66	Mr Luís Montenegro knows that I have been leader of the PSD Parliamentary Group for a long time. So the only comment I made was because I thought that Mr was the fundamental spokesman in this debate and you do not turn away from us.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u67	It's so funny!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u68	Sometimes it doesn't seem to be him!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u69	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's continue the debate. In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u70	Mr President, Mr Luís Montenegro, first of all, let's go to the facts. in the first cycle, the retention rate in the school year 2010 / 2011 was 3, 3 % and in the school year 2013 / 2014 was 5 %. That is, it has increased by 1, 7 % since you reached the government. in the second cycle, the retention rate in the school year 2010 / 2011 was 7, 4 % and in the school year 2013 / 2014 was 11, 4 %. In other words, the retention rate also increased in the second cycle.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u71	What about 2015?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u72	in the third cycle, the retention rate was 13, 3 % in the year that you arrived in the government and was 15, 1 % in the 2013 / 2014 school year. I mean, VV. Ex. the retention rate increased in the first cycle, in the second cycle and in the third cycle, and, as the OECD says, a high retention rate anticipates the increase in early school dropout. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u73	What about 2015? Now say it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u74	What we do not comply with is the increase in early school dropout. So we have the National School Success Promotion Program, we have the first cycle tutorials and we are going to have the Qualifica program, because we didn't kill the New Opportunities program without giving any alternative and without giving adults and young adults, aged 18 to 24, a new opportunity to complete their training cycle. [[P.S.'s applause.]] You want to know what's going on in the General Deposit Box today? What is happening today in the General Deposit Box is that it is equipped with the resources necessary to have the capitalisation it needs and not be forced to be privatized, as its Government desired, which has suffocated it to lead it to the situation in which it is. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]] What is happening in the Box is that today we have the authorization of the European institutions to keep it - 100 % public and properly capitalised, something that you see. They said it wasn't possible, but it was possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u75	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u76	What happens in Box is that it will not be a new BES or a new BANIF because it is no longer protected by VV. For example, by a government that takes up the problems in the financial system. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] The Box is protected by a government that does not hide the problems of the financial system, does not hide the European Commission's invitations in the drawer, does not pretend that there are no problems and destroys the financial system, such as VV. They did it for four years. That's the difference, sir! [[P.S.P.'s applause, standing up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u77	To ask questions, you now have the floor of Mrs Catarina Martins of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u78	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, before I mention the subject I would like to discuss with you, I would like to leave two brief notes on two topics brought by the PSD. Firstly, we welcome the fact that the PSD today understands our country's vulnerability to the burden of public debt and the arbitrary operation of the European Central Bank, so we expect the PSD to join us in restructuring the Portuguese public debt. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Secondly, Mr. Prime Minister, the Block is quite willing to talk about the theme of the General Deposit Box. And on this matter it is necessary to say that the right has acted as a risky disk: it does not leave the place and makes a lot of noise to prevent you from hearing what should be heard.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u79	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u80	The Left Block was the most consistent and consistent party against any exception and any lack of administration in the General Deposit Box. It was necessary to change the administration. That's right! Democracy requires transparency and this has been resolved. Good! But it has been in progress for seven months, so for more than half a year, in this Parliament, a Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the Management of the Box in previous years. We've heard dozens of statements, we've received a lot of material,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u81	What material?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u82	... we have the capacity to draw conclusions and, at the end of the deadline for the conclusion of the Commission's work, the right party wanted to propose more than 40 hearings so that this Commission would never finish again and never draw conclusions again.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u83	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u84	You're ill-informed, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u85	The CDS even wrote a requirement that Armando Vara should be heard in order to safeguard his personal and professional dignity. The Left Block was almost moved by the concern of the CDS with Armando Vara. We understand that. We have heard and know enough about the Commission of Inquiry to learn about the involvement of Armando Vara and the entire Board of Directors in bad claims because of the power disputes in the BCP. Therefore, what is necessary now is to write these conclusions in the report and send them to the Public Prosecutor's Office. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Of course, the PSD knows, as the CDS, that the report will not omit, cannot omit the responsibilities that their governments or administrations have chosen. That is why they want to postpone the Parliamentary Inquiry Commission's conclusions until anyone sees them, but they do not have the Left Block to do so. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr Prime Minister, I would like to talk to you about another matter that is of greatest importance to us: the report on atypical links in public service, that is, the report that shows us the extent of precariousness in public service. It's a measure whose dimension I think anyone understands. Precautionary is everywhere: it is the teachers hired in our children's schools, it is the employees who earn an hour in hospitals or schools, it is the employment-inclusion contracts, in which people earn little more than 80 € to perform permanent functions, it is the scientists who work as if they were pocket-holders and everlasting students, they are the providers of green receipt services at the Employment Institute. Precautionary is around us. We welcome the government's courage to present a report that begins to take the necessary steps to resolve the problem. The State has an obligation to protect the rights of those working in the public as in private, but it is limited in its action if it is an employer who is also one of the biggest precarious abusers in the country. There are tens of thousands of people in public services who do not have a permanent contract but are needed every day and so that injustice must be corrected. But, Prime Minister, there is a omission in the report I wanted to talk to you about and we are concerned about. Joana has been working at the Queen's Caldas hospital for 14 years as an operational assistant in emergency services and responds to the head of the hospital. Isilda has been in the medical service for 19 years at Peniche hospital as an assistant and she is the one who trains the new workers who arrive at the hospital. Rita has been administrative for 15 years at Torres Vedras hospital but earns less than 100 € per month than colleagues because it is precarious. In fact, they are the three precarious ones and none of them have their situation reflected in the report because their contract is brokered by a private company. In other words, the State pays a private to hire them, but it is a company that does not provide any service, which does nothing, is limited to being intermediary to the contract of that worker, remaining with part of his salary and charging the State for that. Lose the state, lose the workers. This is a bit for all public services. Only in the National Civil Protection Authority do we receive the complaint that there are more than 600 workers in this situation. Mr Prime Minister, 75 % of the workers with a vital function for our state are precarious working under false outsourcing for more than 12 years and, in some cases, 25 years ago. I ask you this: is the state available to include in the survey that makes people in a false outsourcing situation to recognize the real dimension of the problem we have to face? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u86	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u87	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, first of all, there is one thing that is essential for the quality of our democracy, which is that there are no stuffed and that all that is to be known is sufficiently clear. Therefore, if the Assembly of the Republic considers that, in relation to a State action or to what happened in a State-dependent institution, directly or indirectly, something should be ascertained, then all must be ascertained and the Government responsible for it is to cooperate loyally with the Assembly of the Republic, providing the elements that the Assembly of the Republic believes should be provided and that it is not legally prevented from doing so, whether that matter relating to what is happening in the central administration is what is happening in the General Deposit Box. Having said that, what the Government has to focus on is to avoid that, today and tomorrow, there are no repeated situations that have happened in the past, ensuring that the regulatory framework of the Box, the composition of its administration and its plan of activities give confidence to what is essential: we have a 100 % solid public bank capable of supporting our economy, able to give total calm to families to entrust their savings and be a reason for stability throughout the financial system. That's why we did it and we've been doing the reforms in the Box. We believe that professional management is good, that having a 100% public capitalisation is essential, that having a new business plan is important and we have confidence in the future of the General Deposit Box. If I may, I would also like to take this time of reply to make it clear: the Minister for Finance has not lied. And I do not draw conclusions on the position of the Minister of Finance on the basis of commitments which third parties claim he has without any proof that he has assumed, for whoever he is, that commitment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There is one thing that is certain: the government's commitment has honored it in the form of law. A law on which the Government had no doubt in its interpretation, on which Mr President of the Republic had no doubt in his interpretation, on which the Constitutional Court had no doubt in its interpretation and on which, in good rigor, none of the Members had doubts. Members had doubts in their interpretation, because, when it came here for parliamentary review, this diploma was much discussed as to one aspect, certainly questionable but to which the Government had undertaken itself and which it honored, which had to do with the review of the remuneration framework, but no Member or any Member of Parliament had recalled to question here that there was any change in transparency obligations before the Constitutional Court. [[PSD protests.]] Therefore, if anyone had another interpretation, I respect, but that is not the interpretation of the Government, the President of the Republic, the Assembly of the Republic, or the Constitutional Court. That is what is in the law and the commitment that the government has made to it in the form of law, and no one has ever called into question until Dr. Marques Mendes had any doubts about what he said or did not say the so-called diploma. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the question which you have put to me, I want to say the following: Joana, Isilda and Rita are probably entitled to an effective employment contract in companies with whom they have the employment link. But there is a distinction that we have to make: on the one hand, precarious situations in relation to the State that meets the permanent needs, which, as I said in my speech, we have to turn into real contract situations that make it worthy of the exercise of public functions. in one of the cases he mentioned, which I know, probably, we are talking about the same reality in which, effectively, the resource that the National Civil Protection Authority makes to firefighters' associations for the hiring of personnel serving the National Civil Protection Authority configures a situation that I would not say of false outsourcing, but perhaps of collaboration between the National Authority and firefighter corporations that, with advantage to all, could be replaced by another type of relationship of these professionals with the National Civil Protection Authority. Then there are other situations that have nothing to do with this and that have to do with the State — authorities such as the Assembly of the Republic — hire companies service services. Then, if there is a breach of the employment relationship between that company and its employees, this should not be indifferent, and does not go through the contracting by the State, it passes by the Labour Conditions Authority to fulfil its function of supervision, actuation and enforcement of the enforcement of the law by these companies. Therefore, we must integrate into the State who for the State works in an atypical manner corresponding to permanent needs, which must be titled with a normal employment contract, but we also have other situations of pure service provision. And it is in order for the situations to be removed that we will create in each ministry a two-party committee, with participation in the representation of the trade union structures and the State, in order to ascertain, on a case-by-case basis, what are the situations in particular, to see, also concretely, what is the situation to be ensured. This is the spirit that we have, with one objective: situations of precariousness that are effectively having to disappear. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u88	Mrs Catarina Martins of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u89	Mr President, Prime Minister, the National Civil Protection Authority did indeed make the agreements with the firefighters' associations, I think, at the time when Mr Prime Minister was the minister of protection, but at this time it is not that situation, because they work directly for the National Civil Protection Authority but with a contract with an intermediary. It is, in fact, the difference. There is a difference between a company that does outsourcing, i.e., that is hired to do a service, organizes it and has the workers for it, and a company that does not organize any service and all it does is be intermediary of the worker who is under the head and organization of the public service, and these are such cases, as happens at the West Hospital Center — the cases that brought it to it — or in the Civil Protection, which are precarious situations of who should be a State worker. However, it records the opening of the government to look at these cases and to have representatives of the workers present in their assessment, because that is the only way this process can go right forward. For the Left Block, in the fight against precariousness, the urgency is certainly to make effective contracts, but the principle is that no one stays behind. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask you another question. The Block, as you know, has a principle position on PPPs because we believe that whenever the State pays a private to make the public service it pays the public service more the profit of the private. So, as good as the private does, we are always losing! Furthermore, Cascais PPP is a good example: the state spent more than EUR 50 million in five years than it spent on the public hospital managed by the State under the same conditions. We're losing money. We have had this discussion before and Mr Prime Minister said that the Government wanted to know what market opportunities were available to choose — and the words of the Minister of Health — the best solution from the taxpayers' point of view. Now, what is not our surprise when the government's order provides that if none of the competitors for the Cascais competition is good, then the current PPP is extended for another two years. That's different from what the government told us.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u90	One more time! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u91	Because there is a difference between having this debate more than once, after the government is looking into market possibilities, or there is a written order that already says that in this legislature PPP is the only solution. We are no longer seeing what is best for taxpayers here. It is an ideological option of favoring private people in health, and this the Left Block cannot accept. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u92	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u93	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your questions. With regard to the first question, on the question of precariousness — to make it clear — we believe that it is essential for the modernization of the State the qualification of public administration and, within the framework of the qualification of public administration, there are a number of matters that are essential for us. First of all, it is essential that we have centres of competence to reduce the use of external services and when we give priority to removing, already in March, the centre of competence for legal services is because we take into account how much it has cost the State the hiring of external legal services and, above all, how fragile it is that the State often has to share legal resources with other entities with whom the State is in conflict or counter-interest. Secondly, as regards the replacement of career perspective, there is no quality public administration that is not motivated and there is no motivation from the Public Administration if there is no career perspective. So next year we have to unlock the careers so that public officials can feel motivated and help qualify the Administration. But there is still a third element: there is no public administration qualification in a precarious environment and therefore it is necessary to resolve the precariousness. Atypical situations are diverse and many concrete cases are not equal to other concrete cases. Therefore, apart from the general framework, we must have a case-by-case evaluation, and that is the function of the two-party committee, i.e. to enable each of the cases to be ascertained and to treat equally what is equal and differently what is different. With regard to PPPs, our position is the same and that is what we have assumed: our option is the one we understand, in the particular case, to be better for the taxpayer. The report that was made concerning Cascais shows that the PPP solution was not negative from the clinical point of view, was not negative from the financial point of view...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u94	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u95	... and what was intended to be done was to launch the contest, saying the following: the final decision will be taken-CL- it on the basis of the outcome of the contest, because the outcome of the contest may not have the same advantages as it had and the extension is only to ensure that there is no situation of discontinuity, on the contrary, and that we can conclude everything in a timely manner, in order to make the best decision. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u96	It is the time of Mrs Cristas, a member of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, to ask questions. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u97	Mr President, Prime Minister, brought us here an update of his National Reform Programme and I would like, in particular, at this first stage, on the implementation of Simplex + 2016 — because you already hear of an Simplex 2017 — to ask you if you have any idea how many measures are still to be implemented within the framework of 2016. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u98	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u99	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, as you know, is an annual programme and, in February, the Minister for the Presidency and Administrative Modernization will make the first assessment of the implementation of the first year with the methodology that has always been adopted: measures implemented in full, measures partially implemented and measures to be implemented. When the report is presented, we will also be careful to send it to you in advance so that it can be examined before being presented publicly.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u100	You have the floor, Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u101	Mr President, Prime Minister, the Programme is also online and can, by the way, be monitored by all. Therefore, I can tell you that, in 2016, 62 measures are missing, which should have been completed, and therefore we are waiting for this balance sheet, and of the 97 measures that should have been completed only 35 have been completed, and yet 12 have already been out of date, but at last... For the first quarter of this year, 79 measures are planned; we are already in February and only six have been completed. So at this rate, I must say that, from the point of view of the picture of the implementation, we will not be very well, even though it is a little bit small, but here we will be waiting for the evaluation of this report and its implementation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u102	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u103	My second question, still on major reforms, has to do with a subject which has been worrying to me, which is signalled in the news as being practically closed but on which, here in this House, we look forward to and insist on the reports, so that we can make their assessment, and nothing appears: it is called the new airport of Lisbon. I would like to know where we are in this matter. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u104	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u105	Mr. President, Mrs. Member, Simplex is a programme from May to May. The evaluation we will make this month is interim and the final evaluation of the first edition of the Simplex will be done in May, when we complete a year of its execution. With regard to the new airport, it is now done: firstly, it can be seen that the number of passengers at the Lisbon airport has far exceeded the threshold provided for within seven years and therefore we need to anticipate in seven years final decisions on the airport. There is a study that is already being done on the alternatives that demonstrate the impossibility of two options, that of Sintra and that of Alverca, due to technical inoperativeity in the field of air navigation. We have agreed with ANA that it is necessary to deepen the study with regard to the solution that appears to be viable, which is Montijo, but that viability is still conditional on data that we can only have at the end of the year. As you know, it is a bird migration zone and the report on the impact of this migration can only be completed at the end of the year. Therefore, it will not allow final decisions until that time. however, it allows us to concentrate our assessment on one of the several possible solutions and to develop the work in this direction, although we are always conditioned to a final decision that has to make an essential factor, which is that of aeronautical safety, because this migration route can conflict with aeronautical traffic. This is what we are currently developing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u106	You still have the floor to Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u107	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, you know as well as I do that there are two obligations on the part of the Portuguese Government: to develop the study that justifies the exhaustion of the Lisbon airport in depth — and now debate it publicly — and then the study on the location of the airport. from what I see, Mr Prime Minister is able to say that the Lisbon airport is completely exhausted and that the figures have already exceeded what was planned for here seven years ago, but no one knows this study, no one has been able to debate it, no one has been able to assess it and therefore is very late in this matter. Your answer only leaves me concerned, because it shows the enormous delay in this matter. We know that investment is not public, that investment is from the dealership, but it can only happen if the government does what it has to do in this respect, and is very late in that fashion.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u108	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u109	Therefore, I will continue to ask, but with a high concern because we know how this airport is critical to the development of the country and the city of Lisbon. Mr. Prime Minister, I am going on a subject that has already been dealt with here, but on which your answer has puzzled me. It's the subject of debt. I ask you a first question, returning to what I said 15 days ago and which you did not answer. Mr. Prime Minister likes to tell us about the net debt, but he's still not talking about the gross debt. The Banco de Portugal has come to tell us that, in absolute terms, the debt last year has increased by EUR 9, EUR 5 billion — EUR 9, EUR 5 billion! Perhaps Mr Prime Minister can answer today what percentage is this and how it compares to the previous year. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u110	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u111	Mr. President, Mrs. Member, the last person I thought to talk about late airport was Mrs. Mrs. Assumption Cristos,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u112	I don't know why!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u113	... taking into account the whole story about the new airport in Lisbon. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It strongly recommended that you listen, for example, to the Portuguese Tourism Confederation, which can give you very precise information on the urgency and how late we are in relation to decisions on the new airport in Lisbon.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u114	That's why!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u115	As regards gross debt, I will be able to repeat what Mr Luís Montenegro has just said — I thank you for this opportunity, since now the CDS-PP and PSD benches are much more serene and will therefore be able to hear better what I say. Gross debt during the four years in which you were a member of the Government increased 32, 2 percentage points. When the honourable Member arrived at the Government, the gross debt was 96, 9 % of the Product and when the honourable Member ceased to be Minister, the gross debt was already 129 % of the Product.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u116	I've already come down!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u117	That is, in four years it rose 32, 2 percentage points. last year, 0, 7 % rose, which is explained by two unique phenomena. First of all, because of the investment that was needed to solve the BANIF, which you had left to solve. That, in fact, is not imputable to you, because you have already made it public that you were not in the Council of Ministers where this matter was discussed,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u118	That's not what I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u119	... but your colleagues who were at the Council of Ministers know how they hid the Banif problem for 15 days to solve. That was last year's debt and that was what it contributed to the debt. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The second measure was the need to provide the State with resources to capitalise on the General Deposit Box, whose level of capitalisation was maintained insufficient because its Government refused to capitalise on the General Deposit Box in due time and good time. [[PSD Member Protests Pedro Passos Coelho.]] For its tranquility, I would like to add the following: yes, net debt decreased, and decreased for the first time; yes, the lowest deficit is the deficit that least contributes to the increase in debt; and the primary balance of 2% is the most contributing to the reduction in net debt during 2017. That is our contribution in debt matters, Mrs Deputy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u120	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. You still have the floor to Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u121	Mr President, Prime Minister, this is the third time I ask you and it is the third time you do not answer me. [[CDS-PP applause.]] But let me tell you the following, Prime Minister : he said, well, that during the previous government the debt was at 129 % of GDP (gross domestic product). But it had already been higher and down, because a debt reduction trajectory began. And you know why she's increased in that time? Perhaps, you don't know, but it's good to remind you: because you've taken the hidden debt of public companies where your predecessor, José Socrates, put everything you couldn't put in the State Budget! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u122	That's where the debt was. That's where she was, well hidden under the carpet! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PS protests.]] Therefore, the so-called 'consolidation of the debt of public administrations and public enterprises' has led to its release, to its appearance with all clarity. That is why, Prime Minister, I am concerned when the hearing boasts itself with a deficit of two commas little percent this year. It reminds me of his predecessor, José Socrates, when he said that 2008 had been a wonderful year, with a deficit of 2, 6 %, at the time the best of Portuguese democracy—now this podium is yours! — but two and a half years later we were in bankruptcy and to have a rescue from the troika, signed by its Socialist Party. [[PS protests.]] That's why I'm very worried. I am also concerned about the mildness with which it responds in relation to debt. You promised 124 % of GDP, but it's going to be 130 %, apparently - nor the 128 % you promised by the end of the year. So we keep waiting for these numbers, but apparently nothing good will appear in this matter. Today, there have been debt issues and I have to tell the Prime Minister that it is actually for me to be very concerned. The recently issued 10-year debt was at a rate of 4, 2 %; today, the debt issued at seven years doubled the interest rate compared to the one issued in June. This means that for EUR 530 million, all of us, who in June will be paying EUR 10 million of interest, now for the same value, for the same maturity — seven years — we will pay EUR 20 million of interest. Doesn't this concern you, Prime Minister? You have nothing to say in this matter? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u123	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u124	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what my deficit does not do is certainly remember its deficits, because we did not have a corrective budget and we had the lowest ever deficit in Portuguese democracy. Yeah, it has nothing to do with your deficits. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u125	Our deficit has fallen from 12% to 3%!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u126	And we do this because we're worried about debt. That is why we need to have a lower deficit in order for debt to grow less; so we are reducing the net debt; so we are increasing the primary balances; and so we will do everything to continue to contribute to a reduction in the interest rate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u127	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u128	Mr. Prime Minister, if there's one thing we never said was having the best deficit ever,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u129	By the way...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u130	... but we never took the country to bankruptcy and lowered the deficit from 11% to 2, 9%. So, in this matter, we are talking about it. Mr. Prime Minister, we know that we have the worst interests since the time of the coming out of the troika, and I am again concerned about your distraction and your lightness in this matter. But let me ask you one more question, the same as I did to you nearly 10 months ago. At that time, the Prime Minister did not respond to anything, so I ask him again what I asked at the time, although now in summary because I no longer have much time. However, especially now that he has already arranged another Secretary of State to help him and to help Minister Mário Centeno, because he has indeed been so disturbed—and so disturbed is that he has already realized that he has lied in this House—,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u131	A lie? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u132	... it is worth Mr. Prime Minister to reflect to what extent he can maintain confidence in a minister who lied in this House, now in a perfectly clear and obvious manner. [[PS protests.]] But I am going back to the question I asked you 10 months ago, because it also has to do with Minister Mário Centeno and his Ministry. Now that you have one more person to help this minister who, I believe, leaves all these episodes of the General Deposit Box very, but very, very fragile, my question is this: what is made of the bad bank? on 15 April, in this House, I asked you a number of questions about this matter—how I was thinking, what value, how much would it be paid by taxpayers, in which forms it was already being agreed—and you did not answer me to anything. My question remains today. Mr. Prime Minister always announces that the financial issue is being dealt with, that a bad bank is being prepared, but we do not see any signs of it. however, it is again very relevant, because, contrary to what you want us to look like in this House...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u133	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u134	I will finish, Mr. President. contrary to what we want to see in this House, in fact, you have not yet been able to solve completely any problems in the financial sector. None! [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] So tell me now how you will solve this, or not, and how a new Secretary of State will help such a fragile minister. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u135	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u136	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the matter of simplicity, perhaps the word « lie» should be used less lightly, because there is no debate where you do not use it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u137	It's objective! It is not a matter of opinion!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u138	But allow me to congratulate you on overcoming the state of denial and today realize that there are problems in the financial system. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u139	One year ago, the financial system was a sea of roses that had no problem, the result of the wonderful action of this extraordinary government that ruled us for four years, chaired by Mr. Passos Coelho and that you had the honour to integrate...! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The truth is, a year later,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u140	A year later he hasn't done anything yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u141	...what we know is that there is no new problem and, of old problems, several are solved or in solutions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u142	No, they're not!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u143	You want to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u144	And that's how we're going to continue, avoiding creating problems and trying to solve all the problems VV. They left us to solve. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u145	Once again, Mr. Prime Minister has not responded. Replies : zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u146	He answered everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u147	I have the floor to put questions on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u148	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, you have already answered the question, but let me insist. [[Pause.]] I've been here for many years and this noise on the right benches has a great meaning: they're desolate, they're defeated, they're vengeful... but that's not how they're going there, that's not how they're going there. [[PCP, PS, BE and The Greens applauded.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] I repeat, Mr. Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u149	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for creating conditions for us to hear Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, as has happened to the other Members. [[Pause.]] Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u150	Thank you very much, Mr President. over the years, we have brought to the discussion in the Assembly of the Republic the problem of precariousness, particularly precariousness in public administration. For years we have stressed the need to consider the fight against precariousness as a policy of the State. The State has assumed this policy in relation to the exploitation of child labour, and today it is justified to do so in relation to precariousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u151	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u152	Given the government's report identifying precarious situations in public administration, it is necessary to continue the work and ensure that the objectives are achieved. on our part, we mean that we value the step taken. We want to reaffirm our commitment that no worker with a precarious link in the Public Administration will remain out of this binding process, either in the central administration, in the local administration or in the business public sector. We will continue to beat ourselves so that all workers who perform permanent functions have an effective employment contract and an appropriate link to the State. [[PCP applause.]] Having raised doubts and questions about the scope of the survey that was made and the possibility of workers with a precarious link that could remain outside this process, it would be useful, Mr. Prime Minister, to clarify the Government's intention and willingness to take measures to accurately identify situations of precariousness in each Ministry and services and to integrate into the frameworks of their respective workers, involving structures of the Public Administration and, as I said, trade union organizations. You have taken a step forward, you need to make the way. We need to keep going. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u153	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u154	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, I thank you for your question. Precautionary is a central issue in the labour market, because once and for all the country has to assume, as it has assumed, and it has well remembered, in the fight against child labour, that our future development, the productivity of businesses, the competitiveness of our economy cannot be based either on low wages or on the destruction of rights or on labour precariousness; on the contrary, it has to be waged in the valorization of human resources, and there is no exploitation of human resources based on precariousness. It is not possible to invest in training, it is not possible to motivate those who work on the basis of precariousness. I have often said that precariousness is not only a question of worker dignity, it is also an essential issue for the productivity of companies and also of the State, because the state has a duty to set the example, both the central state and local authorities. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] And, therefore, we had to do this exercise that was done, and that the PCP values, identifying the different atypical situations. But the atypical situations are, in fact, very diverse and therefore it is essential that this two-party commission exists in each of the ministries, with union participation, in order to enable us to identify, in each specific case, where we have a permanent need, in which this atypical precarious situation, whatever it is, must give rise to an effective contract that values the exercise of public functions, and where the needs are not permanent or by nature satisfied through another mode other than a permanent link to the State. What we want to create is the opportunity of each worker, with the intervention of the trade union structures, to be able to put his situation, to verify his situation and, if necessary, to take the decision. This is with a very clear objective, which is to eliminate precarious situations, making the State an example of what has to become an effective rule in our entire labour market.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u155	You're absolutely right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u156	This is necessary, because if we do not, in fact, have a decent labour market, which contributes to better quality employment and more productive businesses and a more competitive economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u157	What a raspanette!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u158	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u159	Mr President, Prime Minister, I insist that no one stay out of this social justice process that needs to be carried out. A second question has to do with the following: the CFP held a public hearing on disability and occupational disability. I would like to convey to you some of the concerns expressed in this hearing, which seem to us to establish justice: the need to guarantee the victims of work not only support in the context of physical rehabilitation but also their follow-up on the social and personal dimension and return to work; ensuring social protection that responds to the reality of these workers, so that under no circumstances the injured is deprived of income; implementing effective measures to prevent occupational accidents and occupational diseases. What is the government's willingness to respond to these concerns raised by the organizations representing the workers who were injured, always marginalized, taking into account the level of compensation for the reform, always secondaryized and ill-treated. I would also like to mention a situation that has come to us on family allowances. in the State Budget for 2017, an important step has been taken to broaden the family allowance and increase its amounts, but as far as we know, families have not yet received the updated value. Of course, they will receive retroactive, but it was important to know the prospect of publication by the government of the diploma that implements this rule of the State budget. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u160	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u161	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, telegraphically, because he still has time to ask me other questions, regarding the situation of people with disabilities, as you know, we have taken an important step with the creation of the single benefit, whose public debate is now being concluded, and which aims to integrate into a single benefit what should be a universal and identical benefit for everyone with disabilities. A second component has to do with specific needs, both in terms of education and in terms of integration into the labour market, and a third component is that it is differentiated according to the condition of resources. There is another dimension of the greatest importance, which has to demand the mobilization of society as a whole and to which I have already mentioned in previous debate, which has to do with the accessibility law. It has to mobilize the authorities, it has to mobilise the companies, it has to mobilize the state to ensure full accessibility. The national strategy for combating disability has specific objectives in the case of 30 % in terms of reducing disability by 2020 and in order to adopt specific measures for reintegration into the workplace or in the labour market for victims of disability. We have to reduce the sinisterness so that it can be less. With regard to the situation of family allowance, there was indeed a delay in the publication of the portal that regulates the increase in family allowance, but it is now for publication in the National Press House of Currency and has retroactive effects on January 1, which means that, despite the delay, no one will be harmed with regard to the benefit that he has been entitled to since January 1. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u162	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u163	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, more than one question is a question that we have raised: long-term contributions, considering the need for those who are 40 years old or older to be able to access reform without penalties. We know that the Government is looking forward to completing this process soon and in this debate we just wanted to underline the need for these measures, because it is the most basic justice for many thousands of workers who have started working very early and have the right to reform which has been well deserved for a long time. Mr Prime Minister — and I shall finish — until mid-90, the result of the activities of the banks, the banking product, mainly resulted from the difference between the interest on loans granted and the interest on deposits paid on the financial side. With the fall in interest rates, the banks, which previously provided a set of services and were included in their financial margin, took advantage of paying them to their customers. From then on, the most unimaginable services were collected from banking commissions. They began collecting customer accounts, issuing cheques and credit card, bank transfers, evaluation and processing of credit to housing, etc. This situation worsened from the so-called subprime crisis with the weight of banking commissions to be increased from 10 % of the banking product in 1994 to 27, 7 % of the banking product in 2015. In this period alone, bank fees charged by banks increased from EUR 448 million to EUR 2600 million. According to Banco de Portugal, between 2008 and 2013 for an average balance of €250 in bank accounts, the value of the commissions increased by around 23 %. Mr. Prime Minister, we're in front of a sack! Banks almost profit more from the commissions they charge than from their main business, which is to sell finance, loans to individuals and businesses, a situation that has been aggravated by the news that even the General Deposit Box, which should be a reference element, a containment and regulation instrument in this area, intended to charge more than 37 % of banking commissions by 2020. Mr. Prime Minister, people feel helpless. This is a sack, it's a load that has to have a brake! So can the bank continue to decide on this matter in terms of which it has been doing so? Mr. Prime Minister, you cannot and should not do so, because it is the families that end up being hit hard. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u164	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u165	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, with regard to long careers, 15 days ago the honourable Member put the question, I gave the answer, we are in the time frame which was then indicated for the work being carried out by the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, so we will give greater attention to this issue of long careers. It is clear that the crisis, the change in the regulatory framework, the evolution of interest rates have profoundly altered the profitability levels of the banking system throughout Europe, because, at the same time, regulatory entities and political actors have found, perhaps late, the need to strengthen regulatory instruments, the ratio requirements for capital and prudential practices in credit granting. And much of what we are still discussing today, about the banking system, is the result of this deregulation environment that existed. This movement of demand, of ratios, of prudential criteria, of banking practices was simultaneous with the existence of a deep economic crisis and a very significant change in the normal activity of the bank in credit and deposits. This, of course, led to the proliferation of other forms of demand for means of profitability. It is clear that this matter requires regulation. There are two legislative initiatives pending in this House, one of them, of the CFP initiative, and I believe the other of the Left Block, there is a working group in which the Government participates and will continue to participate, with a view to contributing to a situation protecting consumers, in this case customers, and taking into account the need to complete the consolidation and stabilization process of our financial system. I believe that this process has to be treated in an integrated way and, fortunately, over the past year, there have been positive steps that have been taken, that have been completed and that we hope that they will be quickly finalised so that we can look at this issue with another intervention capacity in relation to what the future relationship and the protection of the customers of the financial system should be. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u166	You now have the floor to ask questions, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u167	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, on precariousness, I think it is important to remember that, if precariousness has indeed become a rule in our labour market, this was the result of political options that successive governments have made. In other words, people need to be aware that it was not an inevitability that fell from heaven, it was political options that led to this reality. This to say what? To say that these are various policy options that may lead to the end of the precarious rule on the labour market. And it was not with the policy pursued by the previous PSD/CDS government that we would arrive there, because that government also wanted to accentuate more precariousness in the labour market. This was perfectly visible, as, moreover, the understanding that people were disposable: they invited them to emigrate,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u168	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u169	... but if they stayed here, they were subject to high levels of unemployment or then to precariousness. These were the three options that were mainly given to young people. That is why, Prime Minister, we consider it very important that we have integrated the fight against precariousness into the joint positions and that we consider it important that the Government is taking steps to combat that precariousness. But, Prime Minister, we must go to the data and specific cases: the two-party committees, to which Mr Prime Minister here referred, are very important, but, for example, in education, the Greens greatly value the linkage of the 3000 hired teachers that the Government has decided to make. however, Mr Prime Minister is aware that this number falls far short of the number of teachers hired in schools, who are performing permanent functions, very much below. The question that needs to be asked is the following: since this knowledge is already real today, is it not necessary to study it? Does the government have any annual plans for linking the other teachers, who are giving permanent answers in schools and therefore necessary? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u170	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u171	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, with regard to precariousness, I insist that she combat it is essential to have a quality and better quality labour market in employment. In fact, that would not be the case if there had not been a change of government and policy. We heard, a few weeks ago, the leader of the PSD board said that the increase in the national minimum wage was exaggerated, because he continues to believe that it is at the expense of low wages, poverty and collective impoverishment that the country will gain some competitiveness. We continue to hear of these structural reforms of the labour market and, after changes, changes and further changes to labour law, they continue to want more changes to labour law, as if they did not exist... It is, in fact, that the gula is absolutely insatisfiable in terms of the deregulation of the labour market. This only shows that this is not the way to improve business productivity and the competitiveness of the economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u172	Supported!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u173	The way is to invest in human resources qualification, in the technological capacity of companies, in the quality of business management. This is the path that can actually allow us to have other levels of growth, different from those we have had since the beginning of this century. Regarding the situation of teachers in particular, we have already had an opportunity in this House to talk about the subject in the previous debate. It is even from those sectors where it is most incomprehensible, from my point of view, that there is uncertainty about what are permanent needs and, above all, you know in the medium and long term, because — with some variations in some disciplines or demographic changes — it is easy to predict in advance what future needs are. As you know, we have taken this process as a first step and have opened up to continue with the unions a new process of binding on permanent needs that have been identified. We cannot do everything at once, but this is a process which must continue and which is not closed; on the contrary, we must continue. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u174	You have the floor to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u175	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, you have to continue, yes, and you have to go on quickly. Today, school success has been mentioned here and school success is also directly linked to the dignity of teachers and their working conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u176	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u177	There is another issue that I would like to put to the attention of the Prime Minister and which has brutally frightened the Greens. It has to do with the intention announced by the Minister of the Environment for the municipalization of the management of protected areas. Mr. Prime Minister, the municipalities already have important responsibilities in the conservation of nature and biodiversity, in particular in the formation of corridors for this biodiversity, in the sense of creating protected areas of local and regional scope, but, Mr. Prime Minister, now does not want to dissociate the State in the conservation of nature and biodiversity in order to pass responsibility on to the municipalities. The conditions and national outlook that the State must have through the Government on this matter are not enforceable by the authorities. The Greens reaffirm...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u178	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u179	I'm done, Mr. President. As I was saying, the Greens reaffirm that what is fundamental, in terms of conservation of nature and biodiversity, is the non-merchantization of nature conservation, providing more means, in particular, human resources, improving the working conditions of these professionals in order to be able to carry out their work and, in fact, to ensure more funding for this conservation of nature and biodiversity.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u180	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u181	Do not take responsibility for this task, Prime Minister. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u182	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u183	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am particularly grateful to you for the last question, because it allows me to clarify some confusion which I have seen published. It is not the intention of the Government — and much less has been announced by the Minister for the Environment — any municipalization of protected areas. Protected areas are an essential part of our territory, a differentiated area, and it is the responsibility of the State to ensure its preservation. What we understand is that we will have to gain in the protection of these areas by associating more municipalities with their management and, above all, by fighting situations that have often occurred in some areas, not all, of having a conflict between the park, the municipality and the populations that live in the areas of the park.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u184	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u185	It is that the first condition for the preservation of the park is the fact that the people themselves feel the park as a wealth of their own, feel the park as a contribution to regional development, feel the park as a differential factor, that they differ and value them, and there are local authorities throughout the country...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u186	Thank you very much, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u187	Mr. President, I'll be done. He said that there are authorities throughout the country who have an absolutely remarkable job in contributing to the preservation of nature and its promotion. in this logic of association, what is proposed is that the park will have a direction, chaired by an author, who has a representative of the Institute of Conservation of Nature and Forests and who also has a third element, which is appointed by the Institute of Conservation of Nature, coming or an NGO(non-governmental organization), or a political institute, or a university, in order to ensure both the scientific component, or the technical component that the Institute has to ensure, or also the involvement of the territory and populations in the recovery and protection of protected areas. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u188	You now have the floor to ask questions by the PS Parliamentary Group Mr Carlos César.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Prime Minister, the initial intervention by the Prime Minister has highlighted three aspects very relevant to the characterization of government action. Of course, the Government has a programme of reforms to which it has been linked; secondly, that, in its implementation, it has fulfilled and sought to achieve the best results; and thirdly, that the action of the Government goes beyond the demands of environment or emergency, which have unfortunately been many and unacceptable, or of the European conditionalities, inserting itself into a medium-term strategy and sustainability for the country. This debate, like other parliamentary debates, has once again proved that on the one hand there is a government with one direction and the other an open opposition. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The government has successfully and successfully resolved many of the painful expectations that the previous government neglect has left us in just one year's term of office; it has managed to reverse the degradation of the living conditions of many families and the exercise of businesses — all this is now measurable — has surprised us by the positive external observers and has undertaken the resumption of consumer and investor confidence. With the previous government, no solution was given to what required promptness and what required correctness. It was thought that the Budget served more arithmetic than ethics and still failed objectives and demoralized the country. We now rule for people, work for companies and take good care of our Budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We all know that we still live with many weaknesses and that internal and external confidence in our progress needs to be consolidated. But there are no two opposite truths. The truth that matters is the truth of the results. from the opposition we already know that guessing is always an exercise of chaos. From other international institutions we well know that, sometimes, "the boot does not give up"! On the latest OECD report ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), it is sufficient to recall some previous forecasts. In the middle of last year, OECD planned for 2016 a deficit of 2, 9 % of GDP, and is below 2, 3 %. The OECD provided for a drop in employment and an unemployment rate above 12 %, and after all employment increased and the unemployment rate decreased.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u190	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u191	And now the OECD also said that the reduction of VAT (value added tax) in restoration would harm job creation. It's seen, it's failed! around 36 000 jobs were created in the housing and catering sector. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u192	There are no two opposing truths about the evolution of some indicators that may be served according to whether it is in favour of the government or the opposition. As regards interest on public debt, the opposition invokes the economic policy of the Government. The results of this economic policy are different and, if interest were to vary exclusively according to the Portuguese Government's economic policies, they would have fallen significantly long ago. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The truth is that the economy grows in 2016 almost three times as much as at the end of 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u193	It's true, it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u194	Is it really growing up? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u195	The truth is that Portugal has the highest per capita GDP of all time. The fact is that the deficit is less than 2.3% of GDP. [[PSD member Protests António Topa.]] The truth is that exports, in real terms as in nominal terms, have grown significantly and in 2017, according to the INE ( National Institute of Statistics ), will grow even more. The fact is that the latest data from January to September 2016 show that the investment of companies has reached the highest value of the last five years. The truth is, almost 17 years ago, Portuguese consumers were not so optimistic and so confident. The truth is, despite the excessive private debt, the percentage of families with overdue credit reached the lowest value of the last seven years in December... [[CDS-PP protests.]] ...and the percentage of credit firms lost in December, reaching the lowest value of the last four years. The overdue credit ratio increased with the PSD and CDS Government 47 % in families and rose, in the case of companies, 182 %. That's a difference that it's important to retain! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The truth is that public debt decreased — direct public debt, as mentioned above, gross debt increased due to banking capitalisation and it was in the time of the PSD/CDS government that the debt increased the most...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u196	Get down, Mr. Deputy! Get up in Socrates time! He's down with us!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u197	... not because of the debt raised by the public sector, because they had already been introduced into the previous debt all the effects of this debt increase by Banco de Portugal. It was during the PSD and CDS governments that the debt increased and not in the exercise of the Socialist Party Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The truth is that the problems inherited in the bank, which have not been solved by the PSD government and the CDS, are being overcome one by one. And the truth, as we have heard, is that the National Reform Plan is being implemented. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we know, I repeat, that the procession is still on the stand, but excuse the opposition from closing the window because it will make its full itinerary. Portugal is improving and it will get even better. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, the INE has just published the employment survey data for the fourth quarter of 2016. What is important to retain is that over 80 000 net jobs have been created in Portugal in the last year ; young employment has increased 6 % ; there have been fewer than 250 unemployed per day during the year 2016 - 10, 5 % the lowest rate of the last seven years ; less than 20 000 underemployment workers and more workers with untermed contracts. Mr. Passos Coelho said in February 2016 : « We were able to create more jobs in 2015 than the government is planning for 2016. We can now answer him very humbly: « The spell has turned against the wizard: more jobs have been created in 2016 than in 2015. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, I would like to make a final consideration of an issue which cannot fail to be mentioned in this House. I am referring to the question of decentralization. A few years ago, Mr Martins wrote — asking permission to quote it: « A democratic and modern theory of separation of competences and functions at the level of the democratic state leads us to evidence of the territorialized sharing of political power». But it is precisely the call for this political politrism that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group today believes it is appropriate to make. The Prime Minister, the President of the Republic and the General Council of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities have repeatedly stated that the reform of decentralization is a cornerstone of the reform of the Portuguese State. I quote also, each one in his place, Alexandre Herculano...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u198	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President, although with the classics.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u199	Mr President, I ask you to untie Alexandre Herculano's time at the time it is assigned to me. [[Laughing.]] Quoting Alexandre Herculano: « Do not fear that decentralization is the breakdown. The central government must and must always have a weighty action in the Public Administration. But it is necessary to restrict the sphere within the just limits and its fair limits are those in which the public reason and the demonstrations of experience prove that their action is inevitable".
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u200	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u201	Mr Prime Minister — and I conclude, Mr President of the House — we therefore recommend that the Government deepen its work in this area and we hope that this debate will take place as soon as possible but as soon as possible in this House. We want more Portuguese to work for Portugal with this reform. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u202	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u203	Mr President, Mr. Carlos César, let us start with reality. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The National Institute of Statistics revealed, for the discomfort of those who do not appreciate reality, that in January Portuguese consumers reached the maximum of confidence that had not been achieved since 2000. What justifies this consumer confidence? Firstly, contrary to what we have repeatedly heard throughout the past year, there has been a significant increase in private investment—we have always said so. The search for Community funds indicated that the demand for imports of machinery and equipment indicated it, and today we know that business investment over the past year has risen by more than 6 %. This has resulted in, in particular, not only in domestic demand as, above all, contrary to what has been said to us throughout the year, a very significant growth of our exports, which compared November 2016 with November 2015, to 6, 7%. This resulted in a third trimester, where we had greater growth in the euro area, but more important than that, since we managed to reverse the slowdown trend that the economy had permanently since the second trimester of 2015 and we had, on the contrary, assisted in a progressive acceleration, quarter after quarter. This explains the exceptional results obtained on the labour market with the creation of 100 000 net jobs, the reduction in the unemployment rate by 2 percentage points, the reduction in the long-term unemployment rate and, in particular, the decrease by 4 percentage points in the youth unemployment rate. Yes, this is the reality, and it demonstrates that the policy that has been adopted has produced results, and good results, for the economy, in our society. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But trust also results from the execution of our public finances. We have heard — and we all remember — successive international organizations, UTAO ( Technical Unit for Budgetary Support), the Council of Public Finance, all with absolutely catastrophic forecasts about what would happen to the deficit in 2016. We have even heard people with great political experience, former finance ministers, say that it was arithmetically impossible, I repeat, arithmetically impossible, to be below 2, 7% and even 3%. [[Protests by PSD MP Pedro Alves.]] Now, what we know today is that the deficit will be arithmetically below 2, 3 %! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u204	What about the debt interest? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u205	I am still very impressed today that those who have been in the government for four years, during which he did not one, neither two, neither three, nor four, but eight Budgets, between themselves and the rectifiers, and that he has never succeeded in the first, nor in the second his forecast of the deficit, continues to be equal to himself and, in opposition, continues to fail in the forecasts he makes about the deficits of others! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u206	It's consistency! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u207	As Mr Jerónimo de Sousa said, reality is very painful for the new opposition.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u208	Good citation!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u209	And it's so painful that it takes them now to take refuge in a new barricade. I must say that I do not remember that it happened in any democratic country and I certainly do not remember, in Portugal, that the opposition has never played with the fire on public debt to try to oppose the government in office, calling into question the national interest! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD MP Miguel Morgado's protests.]] I have already led the opposition and, as I have said several times, I know it is the most difficult political function to be exercised in Portugal. However, no one has ever heard me say a word that would disturb market confidence or that would contribute to disrupt the execution of public debt and much less have ever seen me light a candle so that the interest in public debt increased, penalizing the national interest! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We already knew that those who don't know how to be opposition don't know how to be government, but now we've learned something else: those who don't know how to be government still don't know how to be opposition! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We must therefore continue to implement our Programme, because, as we saw last year, it was not the return of income to families and the reduction in the tax burden that diminished the capacity to have a good budget implementation. That is not what prevented us from, for the first time, reducing the net debt. This is not what prevented us — after, for four years, gross debt increased 32 % of GDP, 32 % — from managing the debt so that it had a small increase, explained exclusively by the resource needed to solve two fundamental problems that were to be solved in the financial system: the BANIF and the General Deposit Box. We have a Government Programme to implement, a National Reform Programme to implement, the set of joint positions to implement. And neither the joint positions are exhausted nor the action of the Government is exhausted in the implementation of the joint positions. The joint positions still have much to do, because as long as there is precariousness, as long as there are failures in income, as long as there are obstacles to the development of our economy, as long as we have work to develop in our social model, there will still be much to be done in our joint positions. And it is appropriate not to confuse, due to lack of habit in fulfilling commitments, commitments that have been met with exhaustion of what we have to do throughout this legislation. That is why these joint positions are made in the perspective of the legislature, because we have a lot of work ahead of us, to continue along this legislature. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But the government's action doesn't go out there. The Government Programme has incorporated the product of the joint positions, but it also has on the basis of the Socialist Party's Election Programme, its ambitions for the legislature and its medium-term ambitions, which are now consolidated in our National Reform Programme. One of the key pillars of this National Reform Programme is the modernization of the State, which means running the Simplex, fighting the precariousness, unlocking the careers, but also means running the decentralization program. It is not by chance that countries with a lower degree of decentralization are also the least developed countries within the framework of the European Union. It is that decentralization contributes to a better development,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u210	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u211	... contributes to better governance at various levels, contributes to enriching and valuing our democracy. this year, in which we celebrate the 40 years of the first elections of the democratic local power, the best way we have to do is to give a vote of confidence in this local power, strengthening the powers, competences and means of our parish, of our municipalities, both in what are the own competences, or in the assumption of responsibilities that are the responsibility of the state, but which can be advantageously assumed by the municipalities.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u212	Thank you very much, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u213	We have already taken two steps — and with this end, Mr President — we have already implemented two of the commitments we have made: in terms of traffic police in the cities of Lisbon and Porto and in terms of public transport. But we have more to do, we have much more to do, and we will do much more along this legislature. That is why we are pleased here, paying attention to what we do, because in every new debate of these we leave here with the strength and motivation strengthened to come back here with more work and better results to present. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-08.u214	We have thus reached the end of the 15th-year debate with the Prime Minister and our agenda. The next plenary meeting is held tomorrow at 3 p.m. on the agenda of the CDS-PP, in which the projects of lein 384 / XIII ( 2 ) will be discussed together. ( a ) — Amendments to special payment by account ( amendment to the Income Tax Code for Collective Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 - B / 88 of 30 November ) ( CDS-PP ), 385 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 11 / 2016 of 8 March, extending the effects for 2017 of the exceptional employment support measure by reducing the contribution rate by the employer and changing the source of financing ( CDS-PP ), 386 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Commends that the Cooperation Commitment for 2017, to be held between the Government, the Union of Portuguese Mercy, the National Confederation of Solidarity Institutions and the Union of Portuguese Mutualities, may not increase by less than 2 %, plus the value of rising the inflation rate and the rise of the contribution rate to the social sector, in the financial sharing due under cooperation agreements concluded for social responses ( CDS-PP ), 387 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Reduction of the IRC rate ( Amendment to the Income Tax Code of Collective Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 - B / 88 of 30 November ) ( CDS-PP ), 393 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Tax Code on the Income of Collective Persons ( IRC ), taking up measures contained in the reform adopted by Law No 2 / 2014 of 16 January ( PSD ) and 394 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Second amendment to Decree-Law No 120 / 2015 of 30 June ( PSD ). Eventually, the vote will be taken at the end of the debate. Wishing the Prime Minister, the members of the Government and the Members of the Government and the Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, I declare the sitting closed. [[It was 17 hours and 10 minutes.]]
