ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. Mrs. Members of the first item on our agenda include a debate required by the CFP on collective bargaining. The CFP and the Government will open the debate, which will have two rounds. As usual, there will be some flexibility if the parties want to use the total time of the two rounds together. To open the debate on behalf of the CFP, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The demanding and organized fight from workplaces is at the root of collective bargaining. Especially after the April Revolution, it represented a sign of progress in labour relations, but also of deepening participatory democracy. Collective recruitment has a structural role in regulating work, is an instrument of consecration of rights won with struggle and, at the same time, is a condition for the development and progress of the country. The right to negotiate and collective bargaining is recognised to workers in the Constitution and integrates the list of fundamental rights enshrined in international conventions. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it should be recalled that the employer has never complied with the loss of unilateral power to dictate the rules in working relations. In fact, early on, the embargo on collective bargaining began, blackmailing trade unions in negotiations and refusing to increase wages if trade unions did not accept the reduction of rights. The collective contract establishes wages and confers rights under conditions that are clearly favourable to workers, far above those laid down in the Labour Code. This is the case in matters such as supplementary and night work payment, breaks, supplementary rest, shift allowances, plus holidays, holidays, rest days, among other matters. For this reason, collective bargaining has been the target of systematic attack by employers' associations and successive governments and, in particular, the former Government, PSD/CDS, committed to individualization and precarious labour relations. The Labour Code and its successive revisions, always carried out in the name of a false dynamization of collective bargaining, are the main cause of its unacceptable and unsustainable blockade. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, by means of a PSD Government / CDS, the publication of the Labour Code in 2003 resulted in the admission of the expiry of collective labour conventions as well as the elimination of the principle of the most favourable treatment for workers. The employer has not lost time and has committed itself to a significant fall in the number of contracts agreed and, above all, a vertiginous decrease in the number of workers covered by collective bargaining, exacerbating their deprotection. Since then, all revisions to the Labour Code, always worsened, have hampered the effective exercise of the right of collective bargaining and, at the same time, have created space to eliminate rights. This resulted in a generalized blockade of negotiation, including refusal of negotiation and procurement in the Public Administration. If, in 2003 before the amendment to the Labour Code, the renewal of collective bargaining covered 1, 5 million workers, then in 2013 the number of workers covered by the renewal of collective labour regulation instruments was only 241,000. Unsatisfied, the former Government has also significantly reduced the deadlines for the expiry and survival of collective labour contracts, with a view to speeding up its end and destroying the rights enshrined in them so as to lower wages and worsen exploitation. at the same time, the removal of collective bargaining in the business sector of the State has withdrawn income and rights to workers, and only now, with the State Budget for 2017, begins its replacement.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u3	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, collective bargaining continues to be severely blocked by employers' associations. The dossiers are several: the submission of proposals below the general law; the pressure, with the Government, for the publication of expiry notices; the amendment of the statutes of employers'associations not to negotiate collective bargaining, as recently happened with the Portuguese Insurance Association. These have been used to eliminate the principle of the legal and constitutional right to negotiate collective bargaining. Employer associations use expiry as an element of blackmail on trade unions and workers for the withdrawal of rights. This situation is unsustainable and requires the revocation of expiry and the reintroduction, in its entirety, of the principle of treatment most favourable to the worker in the Labour Code. For example, it is unacceptable to threaten the textile and clothing association of Portugal to withdraw the grant of love to textile workers in the amount of around 50 €, in a salary that surrounds the national minimum wage, as well as the fact that it does not recognize holidays enshrined in collective bargaining. It is unacceptable to refuse to negotiate wage increases, with wage tables dating back to 2003, as is the case with the collective contract of canteens, dining rooms, service areas and bar areas granted or even in sectors with frankly positive results, such as hotels, where there are collective labor conventions that have not been reviewed for more than 10 years. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, valuing collective bargaining requires the replacement of the principle of treatment most favourable to the worker and the end of expiry in the law. This is a requirement of democracy, it is a condition of development and progress of the country and the CFP will beat-CL for it. [[Congratulations on the PCP, BE and The Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u5	On behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Vieira da Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The dynamics of collective bargaining have always reflected both the evolution of the economy and the impact this has on the labour market, both the certainty and uncertainty as to the regulatory framework that applies to them. The decrease in the impact and influence of collective bargaining is something that has been with us for many years. However, this evolutionary tendency to decrease the weight of collective bargaining had particular evidence in 2004, a period that coincided with the first codification of labour law in Portugal and which produced effects from 2003 onwards. It was a historic fall in the reduction of collective bargaining that had not parallel until then in our democracy. From then on there was a return to a growth trajectory of collective bargaining, particularly between 2005 and 2008, and in that year reached a historic peak of more than 290 instruments of collective regulation published and of almost 1, 9 million workers involved. From 2009 onwards, with the financial crisis and after the period of financial assistance, we saw a more significant fall. It was again a declining trend that worsened and culminated in 2014, with the lowest ever value in the field of collective bargaining. From 2012 to 2015, the average number of conventions decreased to 48, 5 % of the annual average of the previous period and to 30 % in the case of collective contracts. This means that during this period we have witnessed an unparalleled regression, which for some could be understood as a dynamism of negotiation at the company level—for the first time, in 2012, exceeded the number of collective contracts—but the reality has shown the opposite: the number of workers covered has fallen considerably more than the conventions published. within four years, the number of workers potentially covered by collective conventions published increased from 1, 2 million to less than 500 000. From 2011 to 2015, the conventions published were not only in much smaller numbers, but also respected sectors or companies with much smaller dimensions. To further deepen the collective contract—in this frozen winter in which it was placed—, in 2012, brakes were put to the issue of extension doors with the creation of criteria which, according to a recent study published by the OECD suspect himself, were almost impossible to comply. This markedly ideological caricature position, though masked by legal norm, led to an issue of extension portals that fell to less than a dozen in 2013, compared with more than one hundred issued in each of the years 2008, 2009 and 2010. Only after the revision of these criteria, by pressure from the social partners, was a slow return to the issue of extension gates, a fundamental instrument for the consecration of collective bargaining. The most recent data indicate in the sense of a slight resumption of the dynamics of collective bargaining, but do not yet allow final conclusions to be drawn or anticipate a change of trend. in the same sense, the number of workers potentially covered by the collective regulatory instruments published reflects this same dynamic, in particular with the resumption of the number of collective contracts of sectoral character, to the detriment of company agreements, with the consequent increase in the number of workers potentially covered. Collective recruitment has a dimension that goes far beyond a simple agreement between employers and trade unions. These rules are of legal value. In fact, it is the only situation in which civil society partners can agree to lay down laws which have strength equal to legislation. In addition to increasing collective bargaining, the quality and registration of new areas, such as equality and non-discrimination or predicting voluntary arbitration mechanisms, have also enriched the path of evolution of collective bargaining. It is a path that is being made and it is a path that has to be deepened. We believe that this deepening is mainly due to the will and capacity of the parties to deepen the dynamics of collective bargaining. in this regard, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government regards as very positive the compromise reached in the context of social consultation, which enshrines the commitment between partners that, for 18 months, do not use the instrument of the expiry of collective bargaining. Here we open a window of opportunity of immense importance so that collective bargaining can resume the dynamics it has already had and the dynamics we need. Collective recruitment is not something that can be stimulated only by the intervention of the legislative authorities, by the Government or by the Assembly; it is essentially a construction of the social partners. And in this very important construction is the dynamics of negotiation at global level, at the level of social consultation, as well as the dynamics that is being done in the sectors and companies that revitalize this fundamental instrument not only for the guarantee of rights, but also for the dynamisation of our economy. We believe in collective bargaining and we are available not only to intervene by promoting this negotiation, but also, if necessary, to intervene by changing the legislation to make it more effective and more efficient. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u7	Mr Minister, the time that you have now exceeded will be discounted in the first round, to which we will start. Mrs Clara Marques Mendes of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The CFP Parliamentary Group called for this urgent debate, in which it once again intends to reverse the measures taken by the previous Government. The CFP thus ignores all international commitments, such as the commitment between the Socialist Government and the troika; it ignores the commitments made by the PSD/CDS Government in broad debate with the social partners to achieve an effective dynamization of collective bargaining and the clear recognition of the importance of this instrument in regulating and regulating labour relations.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u10	It ignores, therefore, the CFP what is said by the Government that supports and, above all, what is done by the Government that supports, i.e. nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u11	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u12	Furthermore, the CFP ignores a fundamental aspect: we have recently known an OECD report in which it is said, in an express way, that the reforms carried out in the past by the PSD/CDS government, including the reform of labour law, have had positive effects...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u13	Positive!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u14	... mainly at the level of the labour market, particularly in increasing employment.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u15	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u16	Mrs. Members, ignoring the OECD report, an entity internationally recognized by its competence and, above all, independent, is ignoring reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u17	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u18	Regardless of this reform was done by the PSD and the CDS, Mr. Members must admit that it is a good reform for Portugal, it is a good reform for Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the reform of labour legislation — and it is not just the OECD that says so — is bearing fruit. Let us look at the data: in Portugal there has been an increase in employment, and this is a positive fact and it is a fact that everyone must satisfy. More, sirs. Members : It is the reform of labour legislation that has effectively contributed to this. Otherwise, let us see: the very important factors for increasing employment, such as investment and economic growth, do not occur. We have anemic economic growth, we have constantly falling investment, and this is why the increase in employment has not occurred. The truth is, there is still a long way to go, but, Mr. Members, very careful and very careful, do not throw out, do not waste what has been done in the past and that has given very positive fruit to the workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u20	The Ideological agenda of the PCP cannot question what has been done as a positive one.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u21	It is not the ideological agenda; it is the bond of workers!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u22	The Ideological Agenda of the PCP...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u23	And the Block's too!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u24	... can't ignore reality and can't ignore that we're better at employment.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u26	But this is also the time for you. Ladies and gentlemen ask the Government what you think and, above all, what you are going to do. We just heard the government. What did the government say? Nothing! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been a social agreement, which I hope you have already read. What does that deal say? He says that the government is very concerned about the need to dynamize collective bargaining. What does the government do? Nothing! The government simply postpones a decision. For 18 months, nothing will be done. And after 18 months? We don't know, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! For this is also the time to ask the Government what it will do. The Government has come to say that it is not on its political agenda to change and reverse what has been done at the level of labour law. With regard to this particular matter, I would suggest to the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen who ask the Government what it will do with regard to collective bargaining. This is the right time for us to put aside the question of political survival — which is the only strategy of the government — to think about what has to be done by the workers and by our country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u27	Mrs. Members, in conclusion, I wanted to say that in the past there was a concern about the dynamisation of collective bargaining. A work was done and an assessment of the Memorandum of Understanding was made to improve the situation on the labour market, and this was recognized by all. So this is the moment — and I am going directly to the government — to stop wanting the best of two worlds, to stop thinking only about political survival, because, Minister, this strategy can even give the government the right, but we are sure: it will not give the Portuguese right. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u28	Mrs Wanda Guimarães of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u29	Mr President, Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This is a central debate in the fight against precariousness and is a debate which is largely included in the Government Programme. It is not worthwhile to come here to make statements that did not even succeed in reasoning, as was the case with the PSD, nor in raising other issues that are not under discussion. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u30	What matters is the reality that we have lived for four years and make a point of how we are. For now, it is important to note that significant steps have been taken — they are not ideas or intentions — which have been given in the 2017 State Budget when expensive themes for collective procurement have been unlocked, when the extension gates have been unlocked, as has been mentioned, and when something has been done that is very important to us, that it was to restore the climate of respect and appreciation of the negotiating area and of trade union and employers' organisations, which now the right does not forget to refer to all the time, but that it has not respected for four years. For this, just look at the sad results of collective bargaining during these four years. It is also important to remember that collective bargaining has a constitutional dignity and above all an objective, which is the defence and realization of workers' rights, cross-cutting them with the interests of the company. This is the fundamental part, that is, from our point of view, for four years, that principle has been violated in the sense that there has been no realisation. The numbers have already been mentioned here, and I mention them again: of 1, 9 million workers in 2008 — at the time, a socialist government was in power, so bad that it was...! — in 2013 we moved to an impressive number that did not reach the 243 000 workers, i.e. 12 % of the workers previously covered. The same happened with the conventions negotiated, with the number of ports of extension and, above all, with the deadlines in which these ports were issued, leaving out, sometimes for more than a year, the workers who were to be covered and who were not protected, which obviously makes no sense when the validity of the contract itself which was extended no longer occurs. On collective bargaining, we could say that there are three trends or, if they want, three perspectives: one, it has to do with a protective and interventional State, as it existed immediately after 25 April, in which there were protection ministers who limited and intervened in the negotiating area; another, which is, if they want, the more liberal thesis, which implies a State that abdicates its power as an arbitrator, its regulatory power and leaves the forces present in a correlation of forces which, of course, is always against the weakest part, that are the workers; and one third way, to which we defend, that we value the role and action of trade union and employers' organisations and the free negotiation between the parties, which must be based on the fulfilment of rights and obligations of a rule of law, that state which can lead to social and labour policies. This is our way! I would say that if we lived in an ideal society, the extension gates might not be necessary since they are an administrative instrument, but, given the reality, the extension gates are fundamental. Pay attention to the unfortunate numbers that occurred in 2013 : 146, in 2008, moved to nine extension portals, in 2013. Therefore, there is already an instrument at our disposal that it is appropriate to speed up, that it is possible to establish and consecrate shorter spaces so that what has happened for four years will not happen. On the other hand, it is our understanding that if expiry cannot function as a weapon of the bosses, it should not prevent the renewal of the content of the conventions. The social agreement, contrary to what has been said here, very wisely gives us 18 months to make a situation point and to reflect on the best ways and best solutions. in a simplistic summary, I would just say: not to stagnation of collective bargaining; not to an invasive role of the State; not to the weakening of the partners. And by the positive, I would say; yes, to decent work and to the competitiveness of companies; yes, to the valorisation of collective bargaining; yes, to the strengthening of social dialogue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u31	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as I reported at the beginning of the debate, the time spent in this round will be discounted in the next round. Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: The topic that the CFP brings to us today is of the greatest importance. The Left Block has always reiterated this very: "destructing" labour relations and promoting collective bargaining are essential objectives for a democratic State that respects those who work. Collective contracting has been constitutionally enshrined since the April Revolution and is an instrument recognized for its structural role in the regulation of work and the social function it performs, either as an instrument of distribution of wealth, or as a means of consolidation of rights. It was through collective recruitment that workers ensured the updating of wages, the regulation of schedules, the recognition of qualifications, the days of paid holidays, the payment of additional work, among other essential rights. Collective recruitment has been, and is, an instrument that has allowed progress in our country and the rights to whom it works. And it is all the more important that it allows to balance a relationship that is unequal: the relationship between employer and worker. This is in a disadvantaged position and the mechanisms for trade unionization and collective bargaining have historically been essential for progress. But the last few years, especially since 2013, have been dismantling the Labour Code, in the name of profit, and flexibility, in the name of the sacrifice of ever more generations with less labor rights. We know that urgent measures are needed to revitalize collective bargaining and we have never failed to do so. We have already presented in the Assembly of the Republic projects aimed at reversing the serious changes to the Labour Code, specifically the blows made to collective bargaining. I am speaking in particular of the repeal of the expiry rule and the need to reintroduce the most favourable treatment principle. The introduction of expiry and elimination of the most favourable treatment were fundamental in the destruction of collective bargaining: it protected thousands of workers and served as a weapon to fire the employer to replace collective contract by individual contract and thus served to give less rights and less wages to workers. It is not enough to say that there is an objective to strengthen the collective contract in abstract; it must be executed! The Left Block will contribute, and will continue to contribute, to this debate by presenting the projects already mentioned in the framework of collective bargaining that guarantee the reversal of harmful standards that have been imposed. We point out in today's debate that the Minister has now opened the door to changing labour legislation, and that is important and we must welcome it. however, we need changes that are not temporary, but that have an effective and concrete response to the needs that we point. We need to go further. We ask, Mr Minister, whether, as you have said, it is then available to work together with the Left Block and with the other parties on your left within the framework of the bills already submitted for amendment, namely the standard of expiry and of the most favourable treatment, which will be essential for the reversal of the Troika Memorandum in labour relations. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u33	Mr António Carlos Monteiro of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u34	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister Vieira da Silva : This inquiry on social consultation was scheduled at the request of the CFP. in the CDS we noted that the PCP speaks a lot in collective bargaining, in social dialogue, but it cannot explain why to date its union central, the CGTP, has never taken any social agreement. [[PCP protests.]] It is appropriate to ask: then, this debate has been asked for what and why? What does the PCP want, and now the Left Block? Are we facing another "number" of television? Is it to pretend that it is opposition to the government that supports it? Is it to deceive the workers?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u35	Say something like that.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u36	We know that the word "reverser" is the mantra of management. Revert, reverse, reverse. The CFP said, and it says, that the job reform was to fire workers and that it would create more unemployment.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u37	Hello, hello, hello!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u38	Today, we all know that it has made it possible to create more jobs and contracts without end, contrary to what they said. They are suspicious voices such as Vital Moreira or the OECD study ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u39	Return to slavery!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u40	But the CFP continues to say turn, turn, turn, turn, turn the labour legislation. The OECD is an international, independent and signed credit institution. in the recently published report, it is said that the reforms of the previous government were in the right direction, but it is necessary to continue them; that the 2003 amendments of 2009 — which Mr Vieira da Silva certainly remembers — of 2012 and 2014 are not yet sufficient; that collective bargaining should be even more centralized, more dynamic and more representative. I ask you, Minister : will the government reverse the reforms by giving in to the PCP and to the Left Block or, on the contrary, will it deepen them and improve them, how does it defend the OECD? A second question, Minister : confirms the news — which came out last Saturday and which I did not see denied — that, following the lead in the reduction of the TSU (unique social rate), Mr Prime Minister has committed himself to some of the social partners not to move in the labour legislation this year and that he will only do so in social consultation there for 2018? Is that so? Will this be the case even though these measures include the Big Plan Options for 2017, which were negotiated with the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens in the 2017 State Budget? Which of the two agreements will the government meet in 2017? Someone's going to have to "put the viola in the bag." Who's it gonna be? I have already seen Mr. Prime Minister say in this House that the word given is an honest word. My question is: which of the words will be honored: the one that gave the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens or the one that they gave to the social partners, what seems, in a news that is not so far denied? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u41	She's already been denied.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u42	Mr António Filipe has the floor on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: There is an old maxim of law which says that « between the strong and the weak is freedom that oppresses and is the law that sets free». Collective recruitment is a historical acquisition of workers, it is a civilizational conquest of the rule of law.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u44	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u45	And it is not by any chance that the historical breakdown of collective bargaining has occurred in recent years which Mr Minister has mentioned here recently. It is that, contrary to what Mrs Clara Marques Mendes said, it was not the troika, it was long before the troika. It was indeed the Félix Work Code of the PSD / CDS Government, which introduced in Portuguese legal order the principle of the lapse of collective contracts and removed the principle of the most favourable treatment of the worker.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u46	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u47	It was, therefore, long before the troika, not to say that it was the impositions of the troika. They were impositions of the Portuguese patronate,... [[PCP applause.]] ... that had a government that was at the service of the employers and against Portuguese workers and that changed this regulation of forces between capital and labor in favour of capital, weakening the conditions of Portuguese workers and seriously damaging collective bargaining. Therefore, what is being discussed today is the imperative need to restore the conditions of workers' dignity in Portuguese labour law.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u48	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u49	That's what we're talking about. We are talking about people's lives, we are talking about conditions of dignity at work, we are trying to restore conditions of equality in collective bargaining, conditions that were deeply unbalanced with the introduction of the expiry of collective bargaining. I was just telling us, Mr Minister — and it is true — that we have reached the lowest point in collective bargaining. We have, of course, recorded what has been mentioned here, and what is known, as regards the unlocking of the extension doors and to, let us say, a moratorium on declarations of expiry of collective contracts, but what is important to discuss is that it makes no sense, from the point of view of the logic of collective bargaining and of the principles to which they preside, this expiry rule that allows the bossate to boycott collective bargaining.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u50	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u51	Therefore, if we want to dynamize collective bargaining, we cannot maintain — it is profoundly contradictory — the rule of expiry, and we are watching all kinds of manoeuvres by the employer to boycott collective bargaining.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u52	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u53	Of course, the Portuguese Insurance Association, which amends its statutes so that it is not considered as a valid interlocutor in terms of collective bargaining, leaving the workers without any interlocutor to be able to negotiate their working conditions. It is necessary to end this kind of maneuvers, it is necessary to dynamize and dignify collective contracting so that it is a reality and not just a sophism of speeches. The big question we are asking is to dignify Portuguese workers, based on a basic principle of labour law which, at the wrong time, has been eliminated from our legislation by the PSD / CDS government, which happily already goes there. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u54	Mr José Luís Ferreira, on behalf of the Greens, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security: The changes that the labour law has suffered in recent years have brought very negative elements for those who work and have accentuated the imbalance in labour relations, with serious damage to workers. In fact, the 2003 Labour Code has weakened fundamental aspects of the law of collective bargaining, especially with regard to the expiry of collective agreements, but also with the faculty of collective agreements, may lay down less favourable rules than those laid down in the law, thus calling into question the principle of the most favourable treatment of workers and contrary to the very nature of collective labour conventions, because they also aim to restore working conditions more favourable to the worker than those resulting from the laws, because otherwise they did not make much sense. But, as if not enough, the revisions of the Labour Code have aggravated the situation, in particular the review of 2014 when the PSD/CDS government, in addition to other aspects, of other attacks to which it works, decided to facilitate redundancy and make compensations in case of dismissal cheaper. It was a real invitation to dismissal and a great way that the PSD and CDS made to employers. So today, when we hear the PSD say that the job reform was good for the Portuguese, we must understand that what the PSD means is that the reform was good for the bosses, only for the bosses.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u56	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u57	But successive changes to labour law did not only weaken workers' rights; they also blocked negotiation and weakened the law of collective bargaining. Today, with a new political framework, out of the October 2015 elections, it is necessary to begin to restore justice in labour relations, because both the government and this House have all the conditions to move forward along that path. Social consultation may be important, but when we talk about social consultation, it would be good not to reverse the premises. Social consultation should be heard, but the decision is for the Government and the Assembly of the Republic. Thus, because it is fair and because it is necessary to restore some balance in labour relations, it is necessary to ensure the revocation of the expiry of collective labour conventions, to apply effectively and unequivocally the automatic renewal of these conventions and to re-establish the principle of treatment most favourable to the worker. Mr Minister, it is precisely on these matters that I ask you about: what is the openness or willingness of the Government to restore the minimum balance in labour relations and return some dignity to those who work, in particular as regards not only the expiry of collective labour conventions and their automatic renewal, but also the principle of more favourable treatment for workers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u58	The Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let's see if we can explain some misconceptions. It was said here that the government was accused of hiding an OECD study. Well, the study was presented. In fact, all the gentlemen have been invited. Ladies and gentlemen and all the Members of the Committee on Labour for the presentation of this study and, unfortunately, by others, of course, the vast majority of the Members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy. Members were not present, because if they were, they would have heard things a little different from those mentioned today as part of this study. Firstly, the OECD clearly states that it did not spend enough time to fully assess the effects of the changes. Therefore, all the considerations they have made, that everything that has been done in recent years in terms of labour legislation has resulted in a fantastic improvement in working relations, not even in the OECD report is mirrored. Furthermore, the OECD report also identifies some negative effects of recent developments, such as excessive segmentation of the labour market. If they had attended the presentation of the study by the Director for Employment of OECD, they would have found that, for example, the OECD recommended in this study a reduction in the single social rate for low wages. But that's not worth remembering now! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what is an indisputable truth is that the last governmental experiences that have been played by the parties now in the opposition have invariably resulted in a fall, sometimes brutal, of the numbers of collective bargaining. That is the reality of the facts. Mrs. Members of the PSD and the CDS-PP, in 2003 the Government that you supported made a change to labour legislation by creating the Labour Code. And did it without any agreement in social consultation, without any agreement in social consultation! [[P.S.'s applause.]] As a result, the figures approaching 1, 5 million workers covered by collective bargaining, before the introduction of the Labour Code, fell to about a third. Only after an amendment to this Labour Code in such important matters as the criteria for labour, more favourable treatment and, even in the field of expiry — made in this House, on a proposal from the Government of then in 2005 / 2006 — is that in fact the numbers have increased substantially and increased. The highest value of workers covered by collective bargaining since 1995 — not available back — was recorded in 2008 with around 1,9 million workers, repeat 1,9 million workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u60	And then? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u61	Then, as a result of a number of consequences—not all attributable to the government that VV. They supported —, we fell into coverage of the 200 000 workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u62	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u63	Therefore, on the part of the PSD and the CDS, there is apparently a profession of faith in collective bargaining, but whenever they assume governmental responsibilities the collective contract falls, collective contracting loses importance as a regulatory instrument in the labour market. I would like to make it very clear here, as indeed I have done for more than once in public, but the honourable Members. Members of the CDS may be a little distracted, that the only agreement between the Government and the social partners — employers and trade unions who wanted to sign this agreement — is the agreement concluded on 22 December 2016. It's the only deal and there's no more hiding or not hiding. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And that agreement is very clear. It is an agreement that aims to produce a reflection, with a view to consensus and any other agreement to improve the conditions on the labour market. And in this agreement, in this commitment, those which, for the Government, constitute the two main priorities in the labour market : the improvement and renewal of collective bargaining and the fight against precariousness or extreme segmentation. These two instruments are identified in this agreement as objectives to be achieved. That is why, on a proposal from the Government, the social partners accepted the commitment that the principle of expiry should not be activated for 18 months, i.e. an orientation to associations that integrate employers' confederations in order not to be activated. I would like to make it very clear here, so that there is no doubt about the government's position on the principle of expiry: we are not in favour of reversing the principle of expiry into labour legislation. There has never been the slightest doubt about this aspect, because this was stated from the very first moment and is part of the history and tradition of intervention in labour laws by the Socialist Party, which has the responsibility of this government, shared, of course, in this House. Having said this, we look at the principle of expiry as an instrument to avoid the crystallization of labor relations,... [[Congrats from PS Members.]] ...as it had happened with its absence over decades, we did not look at it as a weapon to destroy collective bargaining, as a weapon that can be used at any time to prevent negotiation. from that period, to which some have called « moratorium », so that, through the agreement, it is possible to introduce into practice, and, if necessary, into the law the changes that make again a fundamental weapon for stability and progress the rhythm and quality of collective bargaining. We do not distinguish the two essential dimensions of social dialogue, we are in favour of social dialogue as a top structure, as a coordination structure of negotiation, from social dialogue, but it cannot exist if collective bargaining is fragile.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u64	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u65	It is a fragile social dialogue, it is a false social dialogue that can be done only for television cameras, that is not supported in a strong, transparent and open collective negotiation. That is the commitment that is subscribed to by the social partners, that is why we are going to work and that is where we are available to honour both commitments. There is no contradiction to these commitments. We are committed to improving the labour relations and the legal framework that supports them, but we want to make this improvement within the framework of an effective and participatory social consultation. That is our challenge, everyone will have the responsibility to answer it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u66	Mr. Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to start the second round of this debate, and the surplus times will be cut off in this second round. First of all, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u67	Mr President, Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security: The Minister has just talked about this again, but he has continued with his usual speech, which is a round speech to please everyone, but in practice we do not know exactly what will be done.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u68	It's better round than square!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u69	But I will ask you, in particular, some questions. First: from this debate it is clear that the CFP insists on reversing what is positive because it was done by the PSD and the CDS. As for the government, we do not understand exactly what their position is. The government says, and we agree, that it is important to stimulate collective bargaining. We've always said that and we've always worked that way.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u70	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u71	The Government says it is concerned that there is an effective collective contract and we say: 'Yes, sir, we agree', especially without the pressure we had in the past of the Memorandum of Troika.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u72	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u73	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u74	The Minister said here that the collective contract fell a few years ago, particularly in the period when we were under economic and financial assistance. Question : Where was Mr. Minister when the Memorandum of Understanding was signed? Has the Minister not participated in the signing of this Memorandum? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]] Minister, the government has been in office for a year.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u75	A year and a half ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u76	As far as this matter was concerned, it was understood that, in fact, some aspect had to be improved, had enough time to discuss this with its partners and to arrive at amendments. But the government is not able to have the courage to take on board the partners, as I have now said, that expiry is an important instrument in this area.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u77	Yeah, yeah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u78	The Minister has said so now, but he also says that he will make changes to dynamize it. What did you do? He added the decision, as I mentioned in my first speech, that is, for 18 months this institute is not activated. I ask the Minister: what will be done during these 18 months and what will be done after these 18 months? How will the Minister put this into practice? Explain here, in Parliament, and explain to the Portuguese what the government wants to do in order to boost collective bargaining, but explain in particular, because it is in fact that people need to know. Rounded speeches and tripartite speeches — some for entrepreneurs, others for workers and others for the government's coalition partners — are nothing more than maintaining political survival, Mr Minister. Therefore, it explains what the Government's position on labour law and expiry is at the moment and how it will, in particular, boost collective bargaining. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u79	Mr José Rui Cruz, from the PS Parliamentary Group, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Relaunching social dialogue and sectoral collective bargaining, articulating it with the level of companies, including the public sector, is an objective assumed by the government, with a clear strategy as to how to achieve it. This strategy goes by building and updating a consistent agenda of change, resumed the dynamism of social dialogue at all levels, from collective bargaining to sectoral and corporate social consultation. This is not what happened in the four years of right-wing governance. in the previous government, PSD / CDS, the number of workers covered by collective bargaining decreased greatly due to a strategy that clearly aimed to harm one side of the negotiating ground, creating a ruin situation in collective bargaining. This situation has not only had consequences for the reduction in employment, but also for the reduction in productivity and economic growth, which has not brought any advantage to either party. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the commitment made by the Standing Committee on Social Dialogue, on behalf of the stability and modernisation of the labour market, to conduct a proactive discussion and evaluation within the framework of work, on the basis of the conclusions of the Green Paper on Labour Relations, with a view to the conclusion of a social agreement integrating those matters ; to integrate measures to reduce the sharp segmentation of the labour market in Portugal and to promote collective bargaining in order to promote quality and qualification in the labour market ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u81	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u82	... and, in conclusion, to appreciate, on the basis of a proposal from the Government, changes in the framework of the extension gates and the establishment of legal deadlines for issuing notices of the portals, thus strengthening one of the pillars of democracy and a conquest of freedom. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u83	Mr José Soeiro, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It has already been said here that collective bargaining and the system of collective labour relations are an essential component of democracy, and not only of labour democracy but of the world itself of workers' lives. Without collective bargaining, what we have is an individualization of working relations that deprotects workers, the weakest part of a power relationship that is structurally unequal, we also have rights to loss and devalue wages. It is not a coincidence that in Portugal the national minimum wage, which should be an exception rather than the rule, is becoming a kind of national wage, with 37 % of the new contracts to have the value of the national minimum wage. The explanation for this is also, to a large extent, the blocking of collective bargaining.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u86	And the blocking of collective bargaining is explained for many reasons, but there is one that is obvious: the intervention of governments and the legislative framework. It is well known, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that the introduction on the right of the unilateral expiry of collective agreements was a legislative decision which constituted a brutal strike in the balance that the negotiation must have, giving the bosses an instrument of blackmail that they, obviously, have not given up on use. in the same way, the degradation of the content of collective conventions was stimulated by the removal of the principle of treatment more favourable to the worker as a general principle of labour law and as a principle that ensures that all workers have the right, in the collective convention, to have at least what is defined in the law and not conditions worse than those defined in the general law. And from 2011 onwards, we know what happened with the PSD Government and the CDS : enlargement of these mechanisms, freezing of extension doors, which was the real disqualification in collective bargaining, with the dismantling of the system of collective labour regulations in Portugal. in 2010 there were 2 million workers covered by collective conventions and in 2014 there were 213,000 workers. It was the collapse of collective bargaining! Minister, the Government's proposal was to put a parenthesis of 18 months into expiry. If you need to put a parenthesis in the law is because the law is having a perverse effect. And the Minister acknowledged this when he said that he used expiry as a daily negotiating instrument — his words — « introduces a principle of imbalance». This effect happens because the law permits it, and that is why the Government is proposing that this law be placed in parentheses. The only way to avoid this perverse use of what the law allows is to change the law itself to reverse the deep imbalance it introduced in collective bargaining.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u87	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u88	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying only this: the Minister admitted that it was possible and probably necessary to make legislative amendments. The majority of these amendments must not be missed, and the Government must not miss this majority in the amendments that need to be made. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u89	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This discussion which brings us here today, the appreciation of collective bargaining, is of the greatest importance. And it is not enough to invoke the fall — which is true and which took place more markedly from 2011 onwards — to try to create a cleavage in relation to the view on collective bargaining, because it is not true, and the Minister, in this respect, was quite rigorous in recognizing that this fall began in 2008 and has a lot to do with the crisis situation. Therefore, we have no differences in this: collective bargaining is an important instrument, the CDS believes it must be valued and we are now in a position to start a new path for a new generation of collective contracts. however, there is clearly a difference in relation to a left that understands and views these problems in a radical way. It is true that the Minister has tried to create a distance from that left, but do not forget that he is a minister because that left supports him, and that radical left is intended to reverse everything and question a number of balances. Mr. Minister, pay attention, you're playing a dangerous game. The Portuguese have already said: "Tell me who you are, I will tell you who you are." And this game of pretending that you don't walk with anyone who wants to go back and start a path that challenges the development achieved is, of course, dangerous, and the Portuguese are worried. Let us not forget that the explanation for the good performance of the labour market can only be attributed to reform of labour law, in particular in the field of collective bargaining, time flexibility and mobility of the dismissal and unemployment benefit regime. This phrase I just said is not from the patronate, it is not from Mr. Pedro Mota Soares, it is not from anyone suspected of the right, this sentence is from Vital Moreira,... [[Rice from BE and PCP.]] ...who made his way there, on the PCP bench, certainly for a while in party fights... Mr Minister, beyond the disappointment that this left reveals, this is very serious, it is not laughter. What we are talking about here is trying to take care of the economy at a time when the country is in a vulnerable situation. Mr Minister, give clear messages to the Portuguese and those who believe in us and expect to have the conditions to invest in Portugal. That is what we are talking about, and it is important that the Minister be clear and that this government be clear about these messages. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u91	Mrs Rita Rato has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister : Time and life have shown who has served expiry. Since 2003, it is visible to those who have served the expiry: it has served the employership, to impose the withdrawal of rights and to impose wages of misery. And it is not by chance that the PSD comes to say that expiry is an important instrument. Therefore, the objective of the PSD and the CDS-PP is to liquidate collective bargaining and impose wages and living conditions of misery on the people and the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u93	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u94	For this reason, we understand that this situation is unsustainable and unacceptable. The example of the Portuguese Insurance Association is clearly what is on the table: a employers' association that wants to become a business association to end up with a 20% shift allowance of the salary supplement and that wants to end with the $100 premium of seniority and, therefore, wants to expire the collective contract. As the example of the Portuguese Textile and Clothing Association is evident, who wants to end the grant of love to textile workers, who already survive with the national minimum wage. Therefore, it is clear that what is on the table is a strategy, by employers' confederations, to keep wages at 2003 levels, as is the case with AHRESP (Association of the Hotelaria, Restoration and Similarities of Portugal) and its contract with the canteens and with the dining rooms, in which the overwhelming majority of workers receive a misery of national minimum wage, a situation that needs to be reversed. There is an urgent need to end the blackmail of expiry. Expiration is a weapon that has been handed over to the patronate for permanent blackmail of workers' rights, and that is unacceptable. So we will continue to beat ourselves, as it could not fail to be — the commitment of the CFP is with the workers and their rights, at the end of the expiry and the replacement of the principle of most favourable treatment. Mr Minister, it is not possible to say that it defends collective bargaining and maintains the expiry of collective bargaining. This is not possible and, on our part, we believe that, just as collective bargaining has not been offered by any government, it has been the result of the demanding struggle from the workplace, the CFP here will continue to play its role consciously that the struggle of workers, from each of the workplaces where this issue feels today, will continue to be decisive in deciding this matter. Collective contracting, the end of expiry, the replacement of the most favourable treatment principle are conditions for the development and progress of the country. We cannot allow the wheel of history to keep moving back. That is the commitment of the CFP, and workers will beat-CL for that. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u95	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u96	Mr President, Mr Anacoreta Correia, tell me who defends expiry and tells who serves it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u97	He's distracted!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u98	As we all certainly remember, the former Government, PSD / CDS-PP, has deliberately assumed as purpose its policies the generalization of precariousness, the degradation of working conditions and the reduction of labour and social rights. It is this policy, this way of looking at the workers that it is important to revert. This investment must necessarily go through collective bargaining, until, when we talk about collective bargaining, it is important to bear in mind that we are talking about a right with constitutional relevance, we are talking about a right gained through the struggle of generations of workers and we are talking about an important instrument in terms of the distribution of wealth produced and the improvement of the living conditions of families. It is also an important element in economic and social development and therefore it is necessary to ensure that the fundamental right of negotiation is neither disturbed nor weakened. It is necessary to prevent the discretion of labour relations based on the law of the strongest, through the individual contract of work, from continuing to mark our work reality. There is no doubt that both the Government and this House have every opportunity to move forward in this direction. As I said earlier, we believe that social dialogue should be heard, but the decision lies with the Government and the Assembly of the Republic. In addition, it is also worth noting that we should not confuse social agreements with weak agreements, as the vast majority of those we have come to see, in which a large part of the workers do not see themselves and which, in our view, are, therefore, few agreements—if we can call them agreements, because an agreement implies a will agreement, a meeting of wills between all sides. The Greens continue to understand that it is necessary to ensure that no collective agreement can expire without being replaced by another and that it is necessary to ensure that the principle of treatment more favourable to the worker, which prevents the application of working conditions less than those laid down in the general labour law, because it is fair and because it is necessary, too, to restore some balance in labour relations. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u99	To close the debate, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr. Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that it is not possible to have a serious debate on these issues without taking into account the reality of the last few years in Portugal. If it is true — and no one in this House can dispute it — that the economic crisis that we are living after the great recession in 2009 has, of course, a negative impact on collective bargaining — it has always happened — it is also true that the political options determine a great deal of what the behaviour of the same collective bargaining is. I recall again, for the most forgotten or for those who should clean up history, that, without any external intervention, it was a legislative intervention of the majority of then that caused the first major breakdown of collective bargaining levels in Portugal : it was the one that occurred in 2004, following the approval of the PSD Labour Code and the CDS-PP, without any social agreement. That is where collective bargaining fell to levels that had never been achieved before in our democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u101	So what about the PS intervention? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u102	It was only after the amendment to this Code, which was already carried out by a Government of the Socialist Party, that levels of collective bargaining were recovered...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u103	Let's see the graphics, Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u104	...not only identical to the levels of the previous Labour Codes, as well as those that existed before. And I quote again, because the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you didn't seem to hear...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u105	They're deaf.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u106	After the review in this House in 2006 of the Labour Code in surgical areas, of enormous importance for collective bargaining, there was a revitalization of this negotiation which caused 1,900 000 workers in one year to see their collective bargaining renewed. They compare these values with 500 000 or 600 000 of the previous years and compare us with the 200 000 that later reached in 2013 or 2014. There is no truth here more evident than the truth of numbers, and the truth of numbers is this which I quoted and none else. And this is indisputable! This fact also allows us to say that it is possible for workers, trade unions and business associations to negotiate in a framework for opening and renewing collective bargaining, in legislation where the principle of expiry exists, which, moreover, exists in general the labour laws of all the most developed countries. The question is how it is used. It is difficult for me to understand — I have already said it, and I will do everything I can to avoid repeating these situations — that collective agreements that have already been concluded in the framework where the principle of expiry has once again been seen to be called upon for its denunciation of expiry. That's where we have to intervene. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, if they do not understand the importance of, in social dialogue, there is a period of non-use of the principle of expiry, they do not understand what the Portuguese and Portuguese trade unions generally understand. I have not heard any union, no union centre criticize this point, criticise this commitment, because it is indeed a window of opportunity to renew collective bargaining and to evaluate, in a profound and shared way, the work framework we have and, after that evaluation, to produce the necessary changes. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I am absolutely calm, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the work that this Government has done, on the basis of the majority expressed here in this House. It was this majority that allowed the holidays that, in a demagogic way, had been cut! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u107	What about vacations?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u108	It was this majority that allowed a process of combating the precariousness that you, the PSD and the CDS, never wanted to do! [[PSD protests.]] It is this majority that allows Portugal to have, indeed, a climate of negotiation and social peace that has fundamentally supported the growth of employment! Rounded speeches, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! The Government has not hesitated to act by strengthening the means of labour inspection, raising the minimum wage, against the will of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] ... triggering a historically relevant mechanism to eliminate precariousness in Public Administration!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u109	Let's see! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u110	Yeah, go! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u111	I will not use any geometrical form to identify the speech of the ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS. I agree with the speech they call round, because it is a speech that is solving the problems of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] And, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if it's true... [[Continued PSD protests.]] You're nervous, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen? If it is true that every day it is confirmed — every day it is confirmed! — that, if the Portuguese are concerned, they are more concerned with the inability of the opposition than with the government's ability to solve the country's problems. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And that's what it costs the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u112	But just read the papers, it is enough to analyze the opinion studies to verify what is happening: increasingly, a growing number of Portuguese and Portuguese find, in this Government and in this majority, a sign of hope and commitment to the realization of the priorities that have been identified. Our job priorities are clear: job recovery—and it is being recovered; raising the wage level—and it is becoming high; regaining the capacity for collective bargaining—though slowly, it is recovering; combating segmentation in the labour market and excessive levels of instability and precariousness—this work is being done. And it is being done in the Public Administration, but also through changes in active employment policies, in which the former majority and the former Government both supported long-term jobs, and supported contracts with the right term, not distinguishing the essential character of these two realities. These are the changes that are being made. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we will always do so, of course, in respect of the role of this House of the Republic, of the legislative power, of the law that it actually releases, but we will never devalue the role of social dialogue and social dialogue, because devaluing social dialogue means not believing in the ability to negotiate, and if we do not believe in it we are harming the principle of the central role of collective bargaining. That's the goal, that's the priority. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is not with meaningless accusations, tactical maneuvers that no one serves, not even those who think they benefit, it is not with the policy of the trick or the policy of the small media operation that solves the problems of the country. We are solving the problems of the country, and we are doing so - looking at the most fragile, those who suffer the most, and those who need the most from a policy that solves the problems of the country, especially the problems of Portuguese and Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by CDS-PP Member António Carlos Monteiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u113	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus reached the end of this first item on the agenda. We will now proceed to the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 362 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Creates a cooperation programme between the State and local authorities for the use of public real estate ( PSD ) and 395 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establishs mechanisms for alerting the estate of the returned state and in ruins and allows its use by local authorities ( seventh amendment to Decree-Law No 280/2007 of 7 August 2007 ) ( BE). To present the PSD bill, Mr. Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The natural wonders of the volcanic archipelago of the Azores, the « floating garden » of Madeira, the impressive line of the Atlantic coast, the « mystical» cables of the continent, the golden Alentejo plains, the mountainous interior, the medieval villages, the untouched landscapes, the wonderful beaches make Portugal a country of unusually beautiful places. But Portugal is also a country of places almost depopulated, of buildings abandoned to its fate, destiny and fortune. Real estates that seem to want to talk to us, that seem to ask us to listen to them, instead of passing by quickly without seeing them. It's a pain of soul, ladies and gentlemen. Members, see so valuable public real estate property to deteriorate due to lack of attention and lack of maintenance. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members in Portugal, the State is an intervener of unique characteristics in the real estate sector. He is a significant owner, he is the largest owner in the country. He's an important user. He's an expressive tenant. He's a landlord, say a rich gentleman. He can, at the same time, be the landlord and tenant of the same property. At the same time, he can be a seller and a buyer of the same property. But despite its singularity, despite all efforts, the State has never been able to efficiently manage its real estate, with the existence of thousands of devolved, underutilized buildings, many of them abandoned, degraded and systematically vandalized. Portugal cannot afford to lose this heritage and we can put an end to this waste of resources, to this, not rarely, attack on the historical, cultural and social identity of the country. Our proposal is very simple. It is based on decentralization which, over these four decades of democracy, has proved to be a correct policy and an effective instrument of our collective development. It relies on confidence, initiative capacity, proximity, efficiency of action by authorities and inter-municipal entities. It is basically based on a partnership programme between the State and the local authorities, enabling the authorities to do what the State has not been able to do, which is to let the authorities do, and to do well, what the State has done less well, which is to value the inactive public heritage. [[PSD applause.]] This is, therefore, the best response to the State's inadequacies and is the best condition for the pursuit of public interest, after all, that which, uniquely and truly, is of interest to the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u115	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. To present the bill of the Left Block, Mr. João Vasconcelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Decree-Law No 280/2007 aimed at reforming the public real estate regime through efficiency and rationalization of public resources, adapting to the organization of the State. Despite this legislative provision, there are numerous buildings returned or in ruins due to incur or inaction of the central administration. In the face of this scenario, it is urgent to take additional positive measures through the intervention of local authorities in this area, but without alienating public buildings from the State. This is the proposal presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block in this House, a bill establishing mechanisms for alerting the real estate of the returned state and in ruins and allowing its use by local authorities, exactly contrary to what the PSD project stipulates. The PSD bill, in a form sub-reflective and manhosa form, on the pretext that it is a « cooperation programme between the State and local authorities for the use of public real estate », opens the door to the privatization of public land and buildings, in a logic of negotiations and profits for private individuals. This is inferred, and in a clear way, when the PSD proposes « support of the local entity in the process of alienation or costly transfer from property to third parties ». in the background, what the PSD wants is to transform the authorities into a kind of real estate agencies of the state and then calls it decentralisation! What is the principle that the PSD advocates as a counterpart for the transfer of the property? It is the principle of burden, where monetary payments are included, among others. It is half a way to delapidation of public real estate, even classified and handed over to private people. We have had in recent times some threats and a sad example around the Peniche Fortress, one of the most important monuments and that is part of the collective memory of the Portuguese people as a symbol of resistance to the New State. The state's real estate has not escaped the obsession with budgetary balance in recent years. Financial engineering operations have been accumulated, with the alienation of many hundreds of buildings, among disputes regarding the defence of the public interest and heritage and where criticism by the Court of Auditors has been widespread. The pressure on the alienation of real estate results in, in part, a smoothing of criteria for the protection of historical heritage. The austerity imposed by the troika and the government of the PSD / CDS, and that so many evils caused the workers and the people of this country, also negatively affected the property property owned by the State. Who does not remember that in 2014 the Ministry of Finance of the PSD Government / CDS has blocked the classification of state buildings as « national monuments » in order to enable their sale? The classification of one of these buildings came to be scheduled for the Council of Ministers in 2013, but did not take place. One such case was that of most of the Quinta do Marquês de Pombal, in Oeiras, erected in the second half of the eighteenth century. The definition of public services has imposed a short-term logic in the management of public resources. The proposal of the Left Block is aimed at the use by the local authorities of the devolved buildings and in ruins of the state and public institutions, through their request, provided they are urban buildings; that the buildings integrate the private domain of the State or public institutes, excluding public buildings; that they are returned or in ruins; that the situation of the buildings has been communicated by the authority to the Treasury and Finance Directorate; and that they are intended to carry out the duties of the local authorities. The request may be prevented by a declaration of public interest of the property by the Government, except in certain specific situations. The right of surface can never be removed without the authorization of the State, thus ensuring the preservation of its heritage. Our proposal is to enable the fight against state liabilities in the management and conservation of heritage. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u117	For an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Ten years ago, I had the opportunity to discuss the law of legislative authorization which allowed the creation of Decree-Law No 280 / 2007. This Decree sought to systematize various avulsive legislation regarding the heritage of the State, autonomous regions and local authorities, allowing better management of the heritage either in the public or in the private domain. This Decree-Law has set out a number of principles: the principle of good administration, of burden, of equity, of competition and transparency in the management of this heritage. Unfortunately, one of these principles, the principle of good administration, has not been achieved. We therefore welcome the proposal made by the PSD regarding improvement in the management of heritage and the relationship between the state and local authorities. The truth is that, in towns and cities, buildings that are often in worse condition, the worst example of abandonment of real estate is the state, but sometimes it is also of some authorities, and it is good not to forget it. Therefore, the inefficiency of the Public Administration in the management of its heritage, where we sometimes see services that function as chapels and that consider certain buildings and equipment almost as their private property instead of being at the service of the community, is in many cases causing negligence and, in many cases, even reveals ignorance by the State of what is its own. In fact, the State often behaves like a relay owner. We therefore believe that the principle of decentralisation is important to improve the management of this same heritage that is made by central government entities without having the desired results. But we consider even more: that, in addition to this decentralization in the authorities, it would also be good that social economy entities could collaborate in the management of this same heritage. In addition, we also stress the importance of the existence of an external audit to the actual needs and occupation that is made by the various state services in relation to their real estate. We notice that there are problems in different cultures of different colors—in all of them. in the case of Peniche, for example, we have the Forte de Peniche in an absolutely shameful state; in Cascais, a PSD / CDS authority, the Forte de Santo António is abandoned ; in Odivelas, an authority of the Socialist Party, is abandoning the Convent of Odivelas. It's time for this to change.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u119	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u120	I would end by saying that, unfortunately, what the Left Block presents here does not allow us to solve any of these problems; it does allow us to create problems between the state and the authorities, which, of course, no one wants. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u121	Mr José Manuel Carpinteira spoke on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The public real estate is an important asset of the State for the current government. It is therefore particularly important to make buildings profitable without any use, many of them in a poor state of conservation. in fact, there are many state buildings that are returned or underused. The current government is working to solve this problem, considering it an imperative and a priority. in this sense, the REVIVE project, which aims to recover a set of state buildings with heritage value, is an example of the commitment made by the government in its Program regarding a more intelligent, demanding and efficient management of the public heritage. It should be recalled that on 19 May 2016 the Government submitted a set of measures under the SIMPLEX + programme. One of these measures aims to create the « Public Real Estate Portal », because it is essential to ensure that there is an integrated view of State heritage management.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u123	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u124	It is also important to remember that in October 2016, the Government created a working group, which includes representatives of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, which, by July 2017, will identify the buildings of the State available for the installation of public services or for profitability. Thus, at present, there is already a set-up working group, which is in time for the presentation of a programme for the dynamisation and use of public real estate. Moreover, when both bills entered, the creation of this working group was already published, which proves the validity and opportunity of the solutions presented by the Government of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u125	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u126	It should also be recalled that the Government plans to strengthen the competences of local authorities in the process of decentralization, currently under discussion an initiative which takes account of the management of part of the State real estate. It is in this framework of broad discussion that we should include the subjects covered by these initiatives. Thus, while the Government recognises and points out the importance of establishing mechanisms to enable the State, in collaboration with local authorities, to identify and make profitability of returned buildings that are part of the public heritage, the two diplomas under consideration concern subjects under discussion. It should therefore be stressed that the two draft laws, the PSD and the Left Block deserve our agreement in principle, in particular in the involvement of local authorities in the identification and profitability of the devolved buildings, but we must await the conclusions of the working group and the development of the decentralization process. in the PS we believe that, effectively, local authorities add effectiveness and progress to the country. This will also be true in the field of real estate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u127	Mr Paula Santos spoke on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's debate around these projects identifies a very specific problem that exists in our territory, which is the existence of returned real estate that is not being used properly. The first question that matters is to know why we have come here, or how we have come here, or how, throughout all these years, this heritage has been abandoned and there has been no intervention of maintenance, safeguard, protection, conservation that would actually allow to protect, safeguard and maintain this same heritage. There are responsibilities here, and here are responsibilities that have not yet come to the table. The fact is that over the years successive governments have not intervened and have been leaving much of this heritage, much of it even in a high state of degradation. We consider it to be an important heritage of the State, it is an important heritage of all Portuguese and, of course, there must be an intervention and the heritage must be placed at the service of the peoples. The solution for its use, protection and preservation must not go through a process of decentralisation or a process of deresponsibility by the Government of its responsibilities and powers in this area. Obviously, it is necessary to find a solution, which must go through the valorization and return of this heritage to the enjoyment of the population, including the enjoyment of cultural, playful or recreational charism. We understand that the government must intervene, invest and cannot be irresponsible. In particular, as regards the two initiatives under discussion, they both provide for the possibility of the authorities to use this heritage. Once again, it is the authorities who replace the powers and powers of the government with regard to the preservation and preservation of the heritage of the central administration. And, once again, the authorities are taking on the charges associated with this same use. However, we believe that the initiatives under discussion have different proposals. in the initiative presented by the Left Block, there is some concern about defending the public interest and safeguarding the purpose of using the property. The PSD proposal already includes a totally speculative perspective on real estate, placing this public good, which is very important, at the service of the interests of real estate and of the large economic groups, even if the state is out of it. This is an option we do not follow and reject. We also note another aspect in the proposal of the Left Block, which is the reversal of the right of use of the property to the central administration if the project and intervention envisaged in a given period of time are not fulfilled. These initiatives present a solution based on the use of buildings by the authorities, disresponsible to the government for its competences, which leaves a question: if there is no other way, what to do with that heritage in which no one manifests interest?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u129	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u130	I will finish, Mr. President. Is it pure and simply left to give up until it completely collapses, losing that heritage, that value for our country? We need to go further to the bottom of the matter, we need to find real solutions and, above all, we need the government to invest in the public heritage, not in their alienation, as has often been seen in the abusive sale of public heritage, but by placing the heritage at the service of the interests of our country and of the people. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u131	For an intervention, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira speaks on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to leave some final notes, in order to conclude. The PCP and the Left Block have risen, as always, the public enemy called private initiative. This is still curious, because it is the same PCP and Left Block that support the government that, in the first three months of 2016, increased annual rent charges by 7 million euros. They are the same PCP and Left Block that support a government that has launched a project called REVIVE, which opens up the use of 30 historic buildings to domestic and foreign private investment. This is, curiously, the same PCP, Mrs. Paula Santos, who, in the Municipal Chamber of Setúbal, agreed to take the Forte de Albarquel in the same terms,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u133	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u134	... in the exact terms that are advocated by this PSD bill. [[PSD applause.]] And, moreover, Mrs. Member : the Municipal Chamber of Setúbal, after having taken this Forte, has held partnerships with foreign private entities,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u135	Take a good look!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u136	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u137	... an English foundation and a German foundation. Don't you think it's weird? Don't you think it's weird? [[PSD applause.]] Mr. José Manuel Carpinteira, I wanted to start by...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u138	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u139	Mr President, I would like to benefit from the same time as the other Members have benefited. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u140	It really benefits from it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u141	I'll be quick, Mr. President. Mr. José Manuel Carpinteira, I thank you and I welcome the recognition of the merit of our project, but it does not hide behind the legislative package that the Government will present in this House. You know why? Because that's exactly that speech, that conversation, that instrument and that file we're helping ourselves out of then we end up doing nothing. We want to do everything, everything big, and then we end up doing nothing. The non-contraditial PSD bill does not call into question that legislative package that we will have to discuss in due course.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u142	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u143	Mr. President, I'm going to finish right now. This is a step, it is a concrete step, it is a real step that trusts in local power, which brings a solution to a serious problem in the country. The Portuguese ask how it is possible to have so many properties for abandonment, how it is possible that there are so many properties to be vandalized, how it is possible for the State not to see that this can be taken advantage of for cultural initiatives, for sport, for associationism, for civil protection, for social solidarity, as it is possible so much inactivity of the State. Here's an answer, here's a concrete answer! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u144	Mr President, as you have noted, the Bureau was particularly generous in its time. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, at the end of this debate, we are generally discussing the projects of lein.o 319 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amend the Road Code, considering as a serious counter-ordination the stop and parking in place reserved for vehicles of persons with disabilities ( amendment to the Road Code, approved by Decree-Law No 114 / 94 of 3 May) ( BE) and 320 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — establishes the obligation for public entities with user parking to ensure free parking for persons with disabilities ( second amendment to Decree-Law No 307 / 2003 of 10 December 2003 ) ( BE) together with draft resolution No 644 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Parking guarantee reserved for persons with disabilities ( PCP ). For an intervention, you have the floor on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Jorge Falcato.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The lack of an accessible transport network and the numerous barriers to mobility that still exist on the public road cause the use of own transport to be, for many people with disabilities — those who have sufficient income for this — the only possibility to guarantee the right to mobility that any citizen has. The existence of reserved parking is therefore a necessity in guaranteeing that right. People with disabilities who use their own transport and their families know what I'm talking about: it's the recurring discussions; it's the insults; it's the excuse of "only 5 minutes"; they're the agents of the authority who say they can't do anything or look at the side; it's the awkward thing to travel huge distances when there's even a parking reserved even in front of the health centre; or they can't handle anything that's going to be treated, because that place is occupied by someone who could park elsewhere or use public transport. There's no excuse, it's not a question of ignorance. Everyone knows that places marked as such are reserved for people with disabilities. however, it is a fact that the undue occupation of these parking spaces is a common practice that is not yet recognized by the generality of the population as a gravely offensive conduct of a right and which limits the freedom of movement of those who need that space. For this reason, we present this bill, which classifys this behavior as serious counter-ordination, as is required in a petition that currently has 3800 signatures and that was initiated by people with disabilities full of these attitudes, which we greet from here. We also present another bill, also on parking, because it is not acceptable for a disabled person to have to pay parking when he or she goes to a consultation at a hospital or classroom in a university that is not served by accessible public transport, such as it is not acceptable to have no parking places reserved for disabled people along with numerous public services. As you know, the deadline for the elimination of architectural barriers provided for in Decree-Law No 163, approved in 2006 in this Assembly, ended earlier. It's over, but the barriers aren't over. What we have seen is that, in the overwhelming majority of the cities and villages in this country, the public road continues to be hampered, pedestrian crossings that are inaccessible to those who move in an inadequate wheelchair and floors that prevent autonomous and safe use by those who have conditioned mobility. The existence of parking with public services is a way of diminishing this reality with which people with disabilities face daily. I am convinced that these proposals will deserve the approval of all of us and of all of us. Ladies and gentlemen. I think it is clear that parking is necessary in the vicinity of public services and their freeness. As for the abusive parking, we agree with the considerations and suggestions contained in the technical note presented in 6. the Commission, therefore, will present proposals in the field of discussion in this field. however, I cannot but say that voting against this proposal would in practice be a clear sign of support for poor education, lack of citizenship and disrespect for the right to mobility of people with disabilities. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u146	The floor is now for an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : On the subject we are discussing, the CFP brings up a number of proposals which we believe to be an important contribution to the issues of parking reserved for disabled people. But we cannot do this discussion without talking about the right of the population to mobility and, in particular, the right of disabled people to mobility, which is far from being realized on a daily basis. So it is also important, when we address these issues about parking, to talk about the deep difficulties experienced by people with disabilities in accessibility to public transport. If in a significant number of situations, public transport and public transport do not respond to the needs and interests of the people nor do they have affordable prices, in the case of people with disabilities this situation is felt particularly worse, because in addition to the face and poor response they face are also faced with the lack of conditions of many public means of transport which are not adequately adapted, as well as are faced with difficulties and even the impediment to access to public transport stations and stops, and thus people with disabilities are often unable to travel in public transport. We make this reference because, in addition to the concern that causes us, we also understand that this is one of the reasons why disabled people are often forced to seek to secure their mobility by using an individual car, and here too they encounter difficulties, especially in parking problems. Without prejudice to our understanding that a policy is needed to guarantee the right to mobility of the general population and persons with disabilities in particular in ensuring quality public transport, with schedules and routes serving needs and at affordable prices, we bring proposals on individual transport, specifically with regard to parking reserved for disabled people. We propose that a survey be made of the existence of parking places reserved for disabled people in public institutions. We know that, in general, they are assured, but it is also important to ensure the conditions and proximity of them to the services in question and, after this survey, we also believe that measures must be taken to ensure the existence of these places, as well as the conditions and proximity appropriate to the needs of people with disabilities. We propose that measures be taken, in the case of parking spaces which are private but are of public use, in order to ensure that these parking places reserved for persons with disabilities are effectively occupied by cars with the proper parking system, because we also know that there are situations where these places are occupied by cars that are not properly identified. That is why we also propose the need for the development of a public awareness and clarification campaign in order to deter undue use of these reserved parking spaces, highlighting the difficulties faced by people with disabilities when they cannot access these places. We also understand that measures should be taken to analyse the criteria for the allocation of parking statistics, aiming at their improvement in the conditions of allocation and their enlargement, and this reflection should involve the representative organisations of people with disabilities. The proposals we bring here aim to contribute to ensuring the personal mobility of persons with disabilities, with the greatest possible independence, as provided for in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u148	The next intervention is by Mr António Eusébio, of the Socialist Party. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The amendment to the Road Code, considering the serious counter-ordination of parking stops in places reserved for vehicles of persons with disabilities is a measure by itself positive but as Mr Jorge Falcato said, it is necessary to do more, it is necessary to intervene in an integrated way and here the authorities have a fundamental role. Little or no use for parking to be free if the remaining route continues to be filled with architectural barriers. At present they can only benefit from the special parking card, among others, persons with motor disabilities at the level of the lower or higher limbs of a permanent character of 60 % or more, provided that such disability is proving difficult for them to operate on the public road. in this context, we agree that the criteria for the allocation of parking cards should be evaluated in order to improve the conditions of allocation. Unfortunately, the owners of this card often face enormous difficulties to park their car in places that are reserved to them simply because they end up being occupied by vehicles driven by people with proven disabilities or without proper authorization. in this sense, it is necessary to strengthen the supervision by the authorities, in order to deter this type of behaviour, and at the same time must be developed awareness and clarification actions, highlighting the limitations that people with disabilities or with reduced mobility face daily. It is also necessary to clarify the confusion that exists between the occupation of car parking for disabled persons and the parking for vehicles for persons with reduced mobility, because they are indeed completely different situations. It is also necessary to take measures to ensure, in places of this type of parking, that they belong to private entities, such as commercial centres or large areas, that the authorities can operate with proper legal coverage. As for the obligation that public entities that have parking for users to ensure it free of charge for people with disabilities, it makes all the sense and has the support of the Socialist Party. Today, unfortunately, most families have a more disadvantaged social condition because of their own inherent conditions and should therefore have our best attention. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if we want to be supportive, this is the step for all the Jorges, for all the Marias or for you, Filipe. This is a measure so that, next time you get to a parking lot, it may be free and can park your car without any embarrassment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u150	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, the Bureau called for the tone of the exchange of views to be reduced a little, because there was a lot of noise in the Chamber and speakers had some difficulty in expressing themselves. You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Joel Sá.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, the subject under discussion aims to promote policies for the inclusion of people with disabilities, which must be done without radicalisms and fundamentalisms. This is an issue that must deserve the broadest consensus of our society, with the aim of achieving the effective equality of people with disabilities. For several years now we have been making progress in this area, either through the United Nations Convention, the European Disability Strategy 2010 - 2020, or the European Accessibility Law, which aims to strengthen the rights of people with disabilities and aims to improve the quality of life and its autonomy. in recent years, improvements have been made to various levels, including accessibility, public transport, the creation and reserve of parking spaces, traffic signalling, the implementation of the parking card for people with disabilities and conditioned on their mobility. The Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities expressly provides that specific measures necessary to accelerate or achieve the effective equality of persons with disabilities should not be considered discriminatory. The Constitution of the Portuguese Republic assigns the State the obligation to promote the well-being and quality of life of the people, as well as the pursuit of a national policy on prevention and treatment, rehabilitation and integration of disabled citizens. The amendment of the Road Code, considering as a serious counter-ordination the stopping and parking place reserved for vehicles of persons with disabilities, should not need to be legislated but rather to be recognized by our society as a practice gravely offensive to a right which the law already provides. But, indeed, we have found that people who own the parking card face too many times with immense difficulties to park their car in places that are assigned to them. Due to an ineffective coverage of public transport, for many people with conditional mobility, private car transport is assumed as the only way to move autonomously. Thus, the State and all public entities should ensure parking for disabled persons when they use their services. All efforts should continue to be made to improve public transport, particularly in quality, times, routes, prices, location of parking spaces, as well as in the number of places available, and strict allocation of parking statistics, always with the aim of mitigating inequalities and providing better conditions for all those with disabilities. The PSD, sensitive to this whole problem, will vote in favour of the proposals under discussion and will contribute, in particular, to its improvement and enrichment. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u152	In order to give the final floor to this item on our agenda, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The society in which we believe or the project of society we want to build is a modern, free but inclusive society that looks at the other with respect and that also respects the differences, guaranteeing and promoting the human rights of all, without exception. The two bills and the draft resolution we are debating today aim at similar purposes, of which we do not disagree and which we will vote in favour, which, moreover, seems to me to be consensual in this House. The mobility of people with disabilities is particularly sensitive and we are still far from meeting minimum and sufficient requirements, and the problem is all the more serious as the lack of sensitivity, and even civilism, which unfortunately still prevails. hence, in addition to campaigns to raise public awareness and the action of public and private authorities — the first to respect standards and to act with civility and respect and the second to ensure the effective implementation and application of rules and standards — control and deterrence policies of illegal behaviour and, more than that, also ethically censorable. While today many people are already alerted to this problem, the truth is that this is still clearly insufficient, which is why the transformation into serious counter-ordination of the stop and parking in place reserved to the disabled person seems acceptable to us, even considering, beyond the fine that will be applied, that this conduct will be considered an infringement that will entail an accessory penalty of inhibition of driving for 30 days, with loss of points and signage in the road register. Some will say that these sanctions will be excessive and even disproportionate. And they are! But that's exactly why we agree with the measure. Sometimes, for great evils, great remedies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u154	All right.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u155	If awareness is not enough, repression and punishment will have to do what, unfortunately, sensitization does not. The cause, the mobility of disabled people, justifies it. In conclusion, I would also like to point out that awareness campaigns should include a special warning for municipal chambers to keep the corresponding signaling properly up-to-date. It is that the transformation into serious counter-ordination has consequences and it is therefore desirable that unnecessary and useless litigation should not be increased in these matters. Therefore, the cameras should also be sensitized to update the vertical signaling. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u156	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we turn to the next item on the agenda, which is, without time for debate, motion for a resolution No 37 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Additional Protocol to the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine on Genetic Tests for Health-Related Purposes, opened for signature in Strasbourg on 27 November 2008. We shall therefore proceed to the voting period. I request the services to prepare the electronic quorum verification system and, however, request Mr Duarte Pacheco to account for the file at the moment entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, the following legislative initiatives: Bill No. 398 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Renouncing 10 % of the amount of unemployment benefit after 180 days of its grant ( Second Amendment to Decree-Law No 220 / 2006 of 3 November ) ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; and draft resolutions Nos 649 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends the adoption of urgent measures to address the problems faced by health care units as a result of the underfinancing of the National Health Service ( CFP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 650 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the establishment of a National Council for Food and Nutrition Safety ( BE ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 651 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government reject the plan for the establishment of the Local Health Unit between Douro and Vouga, seeking alternatives to ensure closer proximity and investment in health services ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission and 652 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take urgent and integrated measures to decontaminate the Vizela River ( CFP ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u158	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then proceed with the electronic verification of the quorum. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records the presence of 202 Members, to whom Mr Carlos Pereira, the PS, and that of Mrs Cristas, the CDS-PP, who have not been able to register electronically, making a total of 204 Members present, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote. Therefore, let us begin by voting vote No 213 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Despite the death of Artur Trindade ( PSD, PCP, PS, CDS-PP and BE ), to which I also personally associate myself, who will be read by Mr. Luís Montenegro, leader of the PSD bench. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u159	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died last January 23rd, victim of prolonged disease, Artur José Pontevianne Man of the Trinity. Graduated in civil engineering, with long career, Artur Trindade came to be noted as a man of local power, first as President of the City Hall of Porto de Mós, elected by the Social Democratic Party ( 1987 - 1985 ), and then for about three decades as Secretary-General of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ( 1986 - 2013 ). The implementation, consolidation and representation of democratic local power in Portugal and the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities are inextricably linked to the work and journey of Artur Trindade. It participated actively and competently in national institutions such as the Consultative Council of the Regulatory Body for Energy Services, the Board of Directors of the Roads of Portugal and the Committee on Access to Administrative Documents. He was also President of the Council of the Region, of the Coordination Commission of the Central Region. at the international level, he played, inter alia, as secretary of the Portuguese delegation to the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities of Europe, the Council of Europe, and member of the Council of Municipalities and Regions of Europe. It has integrated several international missions, actively contributed to the creation of legal regimes for authorities and regions in numerous countries, to the affirmation of bilateral relations and cooperation between the cities of Lusophonia. throughout his civic and institutional life, Artur Trindade was a close, frontal, tireless worker, deep knowledge of the subjects and promoter of consensus and institutional consultation. It was, for the Portuguese municipalities and for several generations of municipal autarchs, a source of support, information and even technical and substantive teachings. for his long life at the service of local power, Artur Trindade was thanked with the Order of Merit in the degree of Commander. for its recognized dedication to the public interest and the authoric cause, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret at the death of Artur Trindade and sends the most felt condolences to his family, here present, his closest friends, his party and the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u160	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]] Let us then vote on 214 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of Georgette Ferreira ( PCP and PS ). I also had the opportunity to express my feelings on the day of death. Mr João Oliveira, Parliamentary leader of the CFP Parliamentary Group, will read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u161	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « last February 3rd, died in Lisbon, at the age of 91, Georgette Ferreira. Natural Alhandra, daughter of agricultural workers, began to work in the fields of the laziries of the Ribatejo at the age of 8. He became a 16-year-old worker and started his work at the Vila Franca Fiazione factory in Xira. He joined the PCP in 1943 and then in that year led the organization of a victorious strike of seams due to wage increase. He participated in the labor strikes of 8 and 9 May 1944, contributing to the organization of solidarity to the workers who were arrested and taken to the bull market of Vila Franca de Xira. In July 1945 he went underground, being arrested twice in 1949 and 1954. in his first prison, sick, was hospitalized under police surveillance at Capuchos Hospital, from which he escaped in 1951, immediately resumed party activity in clandestine. After his release in 1959, he lived a few years in Czechoslovakia. Returned to Portugal and underground in 1965, he performed tasks in several districts, Lisbon, Porto, Castelo Branco and Setúbal, where he was at the Revolution of 25 April 1974. She was a Member of the Constituent Assembly in 1975 and 1976 and a Member of the Assembly of the Republic from 1976 to 1988. He was a member of the Central Committee of the CFP from the beginning of the 1950s to 1988. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary in this session, expresses its regret at Georgette Ferreira's death and addresses his condolences to his relatives and his party. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u162	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the votes that we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 212 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — From condemnation of disrespect for the United Nations organization ( BE and PS Members ), which will be read by Secretary Moses Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u163	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « In December 2016, the United Nations Security Council adopted a resolution requiring the State of Israel to complete the immediate end of the policy of the construction of settlements in occupied Palestinian territory. The Israeli authorities, in a challenging attitude towards the United Nations, immediately informed them that they would continue to disrespect the international community and law and the Oslo Agreements, continuing with their policy of expansion and settlement. this month, the Israeli Government, headed by Benjamin Netanyahu, decided to intensify its annexation strategy of Palestine. In addition to the announcement of the construction of thousands of new houses and settlements in occupied territory, it gave its parliament retroactive approval of the legalization of the occupation of the West Bank and the forced expropriation of the land to its Palestinian owners. UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres has already said that the decision violates international law and that it will have legal consequences for Israel and the leader of the opposition to the Government of Netanyahu, Labourer Isaac Herzog, recognizes that the new law can give Israel the status of defendant at the International Criminal Court. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, urges the State of Israel to comply with Security Council Resolution No 2334 of 2016, immediately abandoning the policy of the construction of settlers in occupied Palestinian territory. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u164	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and PS Deputies Antonio Sales, João Soares and Rosa Maria Albernaz, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens and the Deputies of PS Carla Sousa, Diogo Leone, Francisca Parreira, Isabel Alves Moreira, Isabel Santos, Ivan Gonçalves, Jamila Madeira, Paulo Trigo Pereira and Pedro do Carmo and the abstention of PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u165	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u166	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u167	Mr President, it is to announce that I will deliver a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u168	Be registered. Mrs. Members, the vote is followed by 215 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Condemning the actions and decisions of the State of Israel to extend the policy of settlers ( PCP and PS Members ), which will be read by Secretary Moses Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u169	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The Government of Israel announced the construction of about 6000 new residential units in the occupied Palestinian territories of the West Bank of the Jordan River and East Jerusalem. in the same sense, the Parliament of Israel approved the so-called Law of Regularization which legalizes 4000 fires constructed by settlers in the Palestinian territory of the Western Margin, extending the application of Israel's civil law to illegally occupied territories, meaning in practice its annexation to the State of Israel. Such actions and decisions violate international law and, in particular, UN Security Council Resolution No 2334 which ‘reaffirms that the creation by Israel of settlers in the Palestinian territory occupied since 1967, including East Jerusalem, has not been legally valid and constitutes a flagrant violation of international law and an important obstacle to the realization of the two-State solution’ and ‘reites its requirement that Israel cease immediately and completely all settlement activities in the occupied Palestinian territory, including East Jerusalem’. The repeated violation of international legality by the State of Israel has been accompanied by a repressive escalation against the Palestinian population in the West Bank and Gaza Strip and also against Palestinian citizens of Israel, as in the village of Umm Al-Hiran. In the face of such acts, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary on 10 February 2017, condemns the construction and legalization of Israeli settlers in the occupied Palestinian territories, expresses its repudiation by the actions of the Israeli authorities that disregard international law and calls for compliance with the United Nations resolutions, in particular the creation of the State of Palestine, sovereign and viable, a decision taken seven decades ago but not implemented until today. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u170	We shall vote for this vote. [[Submitted to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and PS Deputies Antonio Sales, João Soares and Rosa Maria Albernaz, votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens and PS Deputies Carla Sousa, Diogo Leone, Francisca Parreira, Helena Roseta, Isabel Alves Moreira, Isabel Santos, Ivan Gonçalves, Jamila Madeira and Paulo Trigo Pereira and the abstention of PS.]] Mrs. Members, let us turn to vote No 219 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemning the approval by the Parliament of Israel of legislation legalizing the construction of houses in settlements in occupied areas of the West Bank ( PS ), which will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u171	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The Israeli Parliament recently passed a law that legalizes about 4,000 houses built in more than 50 settlements in the West Bank, in violation of international law and poses high risks to the development of the Israeli-Palestinian peace process and the stability of the region. The decision has been condemned by numerous Israeli civil society parties and institutions, by the opposition leader and by numerous jurists stressing their illegality as well as by numerous international bodies, with particular emphasis on the UN and the European Union. The UN Secretary-General considered that the decision of the Israeli Parliament ‘ contravenes international law and will have consequences ’ and the European Union also condemned the decision and requested Israel to suspend its application. The measure also contradicts the recent Security Council decision requiring the immediate and complete end of the settlement policy in the occupied territories. The construction of these settlements has represented an important obstacle for the parties to find a just solution and to make possible the coexistence of two free and sovereign States, living side by side in peace and security, an objective long ago expressed by the international community and desired by those on both sides to overcome the conflict. The decision, promoted by parties that form part of the parliamentary coalition that supports the current Government of Israel and which advocate the illegal and violating territorial expansion of the agreements to which the State of Israel has become bound, is therefore an unwanted and contrary to the search for a negotiated solution, as is desired by the majority of Israeli society. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic condemns the decision of the Israeli Parliament to approve legislation that legalizes and empowers new construction in settlements located in the West Bank, in violation of international law and recent UN Security Council resolutions and calls for its urgent revocation, in order to prevent a deterioration of the situation and to help resume a peace process committed to ensuring the peaceful and secure coexistence of two States. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u172	We shall vote for this vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, BE, PCP and Greens and PSD, CDS-PP and PS Member João Soares.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u173	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u174	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u175	Mr President, it is to announce that the CDS board will present a statement of vote on the last three votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u176	Be registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u177	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u178	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u179	Mr President, it is precisely for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u180	I also call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u181	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u182	Mr President, it is to inform you that Mr António Sales and I will deliver a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u183	Be registered, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. We shall proceed, with vote No 216 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemning the policy of the detention of immigrants of the Hungarian Government ( BE and PS ), which will be read by Secretary Moses Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u184	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The Hungarian Government announced this week two alarming measures: firstly, it will arrest everyone in its territory waiting for the end of the asylum or refugee status process; secondly, it will strengthen the wall on the border with Serbia, extending its extension. As your spokesman announced, ‘ no immigrant, nor who has already submitted an asylum application, can move freely in Hungary until there is a final decision on his status. ’ The executive led by Viktor Orbán has come to take various public positions and decisions that can only deserve the most careful concern and condemnation of all human rights defenders: he has set up a wall on the border with Serbia, plans to hire between 6,000 and 8,000 border guards to arrest those who ‘break the wall’ — it is understood who flees from hunger and death — and has promoted a referendum not to host refugees. To remain indifferent to the growth of xenophobic and disrespecting human rights policies cannot be the choice of any democratic regime. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, condemns the policy of building walls and the detention of immigrants of the Hungarian Government. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u185	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]] The following vote No 217 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemning recent legal amendments to domestic violence in Russia ( BE, PS and PSD Members ), which will be read by Secretary Mois Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u186	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: ‘Last Tuesday, the so-called ‘challenge law’ was published in the official newspaper of the Russian Federation, a legislative initiative which made substantial changes to domestic violence. The publication of the above-mentioned law reflects the culmination of a legislative process that had already been adopted virtually unanimously by this diploma in the two Chambers, Dumae the Council of the Federation of the Senate, and with the promulgation of President Vladimir Putin. According to the new legislation, domestic violence more than a criminal offence is now a mere administrative offense. They are free from criminal responsibility for physical assaults on families that do not result in ‘serious bodily injuries’ and provided that they do not occur more than once a year. The aggressor only incurs criminal responsibility in extreme circumstances, that is, when the aggression results in some risk to the victim's health. However, these changes are all the more serious than to pay attention to official domestic violence figures in Russia. According to official data from the Russian Ministry of Internal Affairs, 74 % of victims of domestic violence are women, 91 % being the percentage of assaults perpetrated by spouses or companions. According to the same source, 26 000 aggressions were recorded in 2008 on children and 14 000 women died following the aggressions of their companions. in a country where 36 000 women are attacked annually and one woman dies every 40 minutes, the retrogression in the protection of victims of domestic violence and respect for women is even more shocking. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, strongly condemns legislative amendments to domestic violence recently approved in Russia, and calls for respect for the fundamental rights of women in that country. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u187	We shall vote for this vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]] Mrs. Members, let us turn to vote No 218 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — From the International Day of Zero Tolerance to Female Genital Mutilation ( MGF ) ( PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and PAN ), which will be read by Secretary António Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u188	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On the occasion of the International Day of Zero Tolerance to Female Genital Mutilation ( MGF ) — February 6, the Assembly of the Republic condemns this harmful practice and welcomes the commitment to its eradication. Female genital mutilation is one of the most serious violations of human rights, estimated that about 140 million women, girls and children worldwide are victims of this harmful practice and that 3 million are at risk of suffering every year. The European Parliament also estimates that around 500 000 women, young people and children are living in Europe and that 180 000 are at risk of mutilation each year. Until recently, female genital mutilation was an unknown problem in Portugal. However, it has become a new problem in terms of sexual and reproductive rights and health in our country, associated with migration flows over the last two decades. We therefore strongly condemn this type of crime, which translates one of the most visible and humiliating forms of cultural manifestation associated with the devaluation of the social role of women, girls and children, being one of the mechanisms of exercising sexist power that most imprisons women, both at the level of their sexuality, as well as their identity and citizenship. Female genital mutilation is a crime in all Member States of the European Union. Portugal was the first country of the European Union to ratify the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women and Domestic Violence ( Istanbul Convention ) and unanimously approved the empowerment and strengthening of the crime of female genital mutilation. All preparatory acts of female genital mutilation are still considered a crime. national public policies underline the successive action plans, currently implementing the III Action Programme for the Prevention and Elimination of Female Genital Mutilation ( 2014 - 2017 ) and the campaigns to eliminate this harmful practice. Sustainable development objectives are also a unique opportunity to mobilize the international community in order to meet the ambitious goal of eliminating female genital mutilation. We welcome all efforts to put an end to this harmful practice and violation of human rights, which deprives women and girls of their fundamental rights and stresses the imperative to maintain political commitment to the eradication of female genital mutilation. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, welcomes the International Day of Zero Tolerance to Female Genital Mutilation and reaffirms the commitment to the eradication of this scourge and the defence of human rights'.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-10.u189	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]] Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on Bill No. 362 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates a Cooperation Programme between the State and local authorities for the use of public real estate ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD and the CDS, votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] Mrs. Members, this diploma is down to 5. the Commission. Let us now vote, in general, Bill No. 395 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establishs mechanisms for alerting the estate of the returned state and in ruins and allows its use by local authorities ( seventh amendment to Decree-Law No 280/2007 of 7 August 2007 ) ( BE). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS were rejected, votes against the BE and abstentions against the PS, the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall generally vote on Bill No 319 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter the Road Code considering as a serious counter-ordination the stopping and parking in place reserved for vehicles of persons with disabilities ( amendment to the Road Code, approved by Decree-Law No 114 / 94 of 3 May ) ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]] Mrs. Members, this bill goes down to 6. the Commission. We will now vote in general on Bill No 320 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — establishes the obligation for public entities with user parking facilities to ensure free parking for persons with disabilities ( second amendment to Decree-Law No 307 / 2003 of 10 December 2003 ) ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]] Mrs. Members, this bill goes down to 6. the Commission. Let us now vote on draft resolution No 644 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Parking guarantee reserved for persons with disabilities ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 37 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Additional Protocol to the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine on Genetic Tests for Health-Related Purposes, opened for signature in Strasbourg on 27 November 2008. [[Subject to the vote, the absence of the NAP was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 275 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government draw up the White Paper on the State of the Environment ( PSD ). [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and Os Verdes and votes against the PS.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote on draft resolution No 394 / XIII ( 1a) — Recommends to the Government the amendment of the General Residue Management Scheme adopted by Decree-Law No 178 / 2006 of 5 September ( PAN ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected unanimously, registering the absence of the NAP.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe there is no memory of a project that has been rejected in the Assembly of the Republic by all of you. Ladies and gentlemen. This record is at the end of this session, not being the best end, but finally... Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, our next meeting will take place on Wednesday, 15 February, with the following agenda item: the first item consists of political statements; the second item is the discussion of petition No 151 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — They request that the Assembly of the Republic approve the holding of a referendum and promote public discussion on the pregnancy of substitution ( Afonso da Gama and Castro Espregueira et al.) ; the third and last point is the discussion of petition No 154 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Saving the Vizela River ( League of Friends of the Vizela Termas ). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 41 minutes.]]
