ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 9 minutes.]] I ask the authorities to open the galleries to the public. the agenda for today is a first item with political statements, following a second point with the joint assessment of two bills and two draft resolutions on consumption and consumers. From now on, I will give the floor to Mr. Secretary Duarte Pacheco, who will have a thorough job, to do the favor of announcing the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the projects of lein.o 437 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — I have established a special regime for the defence and exploitation of traditional Portuguese vessels ( CFP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 438 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Determines the subjection of consumer disputes of reduced economic value to the necessary arbitration, where this is chosen by the consumer, and determines the obligation to set up a lawyer in consumer shares ( PSD ), 439 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Determines the establishment within the Directorate-General for Consumer Affairs of a national consumer registration portal for telephone advertising ( PSD ), 440 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Determination of housing prices and meals for higher education students according to the social support indexer ( PSD ), which falls to 8. Commission, 441 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establishs the legal regime of the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto and regulates the tasks, competences and functioning of their bodies ( CFP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 442 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Framework law laying down the conditions and requirements for the transfer of responsibilities and competences to local authorities ( CFP ), 443 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 148 / 2015 of 9 September which approved the Legal System of Audit Supervision by strengthening the supervisory powers of the Securities Market Commission in verifying any conflicts of interest between the audit exercise to public interest entities and the provision of consulting services to such entities or third parties ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 444 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amended fourth Decree-Law No 228/2000 of 23 September ( Creates the National Council of Financial Supervisors ), strengthening the powers of the National Council of Financial Supervisors and promoting efficient collaboration and articulation between the various financial supervisory bodies, Banco de Portugal, Commission on the Securities Market and Insurance Supervisory Authority ( ASF ), establishing an executive secretariat ( CDS-PP ), 445 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amends the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies adopted by Decree-Law No 298 / 92 of 31 December adopting restrictive measures in the marketing of financial products and instruments by credit institutions and financial corporations ( CDS-PP ), 446 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The eighth amendment is made to Law No 5 / 98 of 31 January, Organic Law of the Banco de Portugal, introducing the rule that the completion of the Board of Directors of Banco de Portugal is carried out by competitive procedure ( CDS-PP ), 447 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amended Decree-Law No 298 / 92 of 31 December approving the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies, strengthening the supervisory powers of the Banco de Portugal as regards the corporate governance systems of credit institutions and introducing limitations on the granting of credit to holders of qualifying holdings in credit institutions ( CDS-PP ), which is lower than 5. the Commission, 448 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amends the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies, approved by Decree-Law No 298 / 92 of 31 December, preventing the allocation of incentives for marketing to the retail of specific products or financial instruments and reinforcing the intervention of the Banco de Portugal in this area ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 449 / XIII ( 2. a ) — decentralization of competences for municipalities and intermunicipal entities in education, health, social action, civil protection, beaches, forest management, animal health and food security, heritage and housing ( CDS-PP ), 450 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establishs a new legal regime for passenger transport activity in decharacterised light motor vehicles ( BE ), 451 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strengthen consumer rights with regard to the consumption of food goods ( PAN ), 452 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Planning of the nuclear emergency and citizen involvement ( The Greens ), 453 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amends the Civil Code by strengthening the legal protection of prohibited or disabled heirs ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 454 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Sets out the conditions for the organisation, operation and installation of the occupational activity centre ( CAD ) ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 455 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — The first amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code, to the fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April 2009 and to the third amendment to Decree-Law No 89 / 2009 will increase the period of parental leave in the case of birth of children with disabilities or rare illness in 60 days, and creates the parental leave for premature birth associated with disability or rare disease, with more than six weeks before the presumed date of birth ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 456 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Creates the exceptional scheme for indexing the social benefits of the disabled in the Armed Forces ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and 457 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amendment to the law establishing the schemes for the linkage of careers and remuneration of employees who perform public functions ( PSD ), which falls to 10. the Commission. They also entered and were admitted, draft resolutions 717 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures promoting alternative means of resolving consumer disputes ( PSD ), 718 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to train, inform and monitor consumer rights ( PSD ), 719 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government intercede with the Spanish authorities for the urgent reopening of the HU-6400 road in the section following the International Downguard Bridge in Pomarão, Métola ( BE ), 720 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of Portuguese tile heritage protection mechanisms ( CDS-PP ), 721 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Classification of mobility scooters to allow them access to passenger transport ( The Greens ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 722 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Decentralisation of competences for local authorities ( BE ), 723 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Protection and enhancement of Portuguese tile heritage ( BE), 724 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures that modernize and introduce transparency in the taxi sector ( BE ), 725 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government pursue the reformulation of the system of transfer of competences to local authorities and to inter-municipal entities ( NAPs), 726 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government draw up a radiological emergency plan for cross-border nuclear accidents ( PAN ), 727 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote a more effective consumer information culture ( CDS-PP ), 728 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Rejects partial and provisional entry into force of the Global Economic and Trade Agreement ( CETA ) between the European Union and Canada ( CFP ), 729 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, with the institutions of the European Union, not discriminate against the remuneration of persons with disabilities in projects financed by Community funds ( CDS-PP ), 730 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government extend the National Early Intervention System ( SNIPI ) for children up to 10 years or until the end of 1. the basic education cycle and flexibility and agile its structure ( CDS-PP ), 731 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, with a view to operationalizing and implementing the Centre for Care, Monitoring and Social Rehabilitation for Persons with Disabilities and Disabilities, shall establish and determine in contracts to be concluded with the institutions a user/month value that enables the establishment of a link between the services provided, the levels of care and the follow-up carried out ( CDS-PP ), 732 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create the guarantee plan for disabled children and young people ( CDS-PP ), 733 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create a single document demonstrating the degree of disability and disability for all circumstances of the life of the disabled person accepted in all public services ( CDS-PP ), 734 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure access to vocational training adapted to persons with disabilities and disabilities ( PCDI ), in particular to dual-certification ( level 2 ) ( vocational certification and academic equivalence to 9. the year ), in the region of Grande Lisboa ( CDS-PP ), 735 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government regulate the terms and conditions for the access and exercise of the profession of personal assistant ( CDS-PP ), 736 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Acquisition of motor vehicles for the provision of household care under primary health care ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, and 737 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by hiring non-teaching staff in a number appropriate to the specificities of the São Bento ( BE ) Agricultural School, which falls to 8. the Commission. [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco, whom I greet for your resilience! We have moved on to the first point of our agenda, which is made up of political statements. To that end, Mr Pedro Alves of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : « What is born wrong late or never goes straight», the people say. Nothing could be more true when we look at the one who has been the Minister of Education. When schools, teachers, families, communities and the President of the Republic ask for stability, competence, investment and tranquility, the team that protects education responds with instability, investment and incompetence, disregarding scientific societies, schools and the National Council of Education itself. This guardianship was born. It was born cake, because education was delivered by the Socialist Party to the partners of the far left, as an exchange currency to support its minority government; it was born cake, because it has no clear strategy that prejudice or satisfaction of immediate corporate interests; it was born cake, because it has as its only mobile to drag and reverse. It is a purely negative policy and the results are in sight. After Portugal has improved all qualitative indicators in education; after we know that in 2015 our students of the 4. the school year had the best results ever in Mathematics; after we knew that, according to the PISA (Program for International Student Assessment), our students had the best results ever, this minister achieves the unthinkable and early school dropout rate rises for the first time in more than 10 years. Destroy in a year what others have built in decades. It is a negative policy based on instability and uncertainty. Who does not remember the trick that was the external evaluation last year, subjecting students and schools to three changes in the model? Who does not remember the precipitation and pure ideological prejudice that caused thousands of students to see their educational pathways interrupted? Who does not remember the total concern of guardianship in the application of the law of pre-school, which caused so much distress to hundreds of families at the beginning of the school year? Who does not remember that, despite the numerous alerts in this House, the Ministry has chosen to olympically ignore the brutal worsening of the lack of employees in schools this school year? But there's a lot more. Who can deny that we have seen in 2016 the lowest public investment in which there is memory? Who can deny that in 2016 a single asbestos plate was not removed? Who can deny that there has never been such low execution of the funds relating to maintenance works in schools? Who can deny that the money is still being transferred to multi-deficiency units? Who can deny that the funds relating to the payment of school textbooks for deprived families have arrived late and bad hours and that, in March, there are still thousands not compensated? And -- don't worry! — who can deny that schools have been obliged to borrow money from the Ministry to pay electricity and water accounts? This is the brand of new time in education. But on this track of instability, we continue to see a total disparity and disorientation of protection. An instability under the sign of a curriculum reform, an ongoing revolutionary process, which, by pure semantic exercise, has decided to designate « curriculum flexibility ». It is not the curriculum flexibility that exists today in the more than 200 groups with a contract of autonomy; it is another. No one knows what it is, no one can know. It's something... they say, one day, that there will be new curricula in schools, that it's necessary to cut time to structural disciplines, in mathematics and in Portuguese, but, weeks later, they give the saying for not saying, back, and after all, they don't cut anymore. They say, one day, that education will return to citizenship to the curriculum, but they do not explain how, without altering the overall educational burden. They say, one day, that educational projects need to be changed, but they already forget that they were validated this year for two years, within the framework of the National School Success Promotion Program. They say one day that such curriculum flexibility is to move forward by next year, but after all, it is no longer. We are confronted with news that Mr. Prime Minister makes the right decisions for the wrong reasons. After all, the curriculum review is no longer progressing, not because it is a horrendous mistake, but because the Prime Minister does not want to put the result at risk in the elections. This confirms the worst policy: the higher interests of students subject to the party agenda of the Secretary-General of the Socialist Party. It's a little embarrassing! The educational policy subordinated to the election calendar of the Socialist Party. Is this what education needs? Don't! We demand better. We demand a coherent, competent, demanding and incremental policy that does not call into question the results achieved. This minister is no longer on the right track. It may even be very useful for the political balance of management, but it is disastrous for education, bringing back the time of darkness, after years of light. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u5	Four Members have signed up to request clarification, and Mr Pedro Alves has informed the Bureau that he will answer together. Mrs. Susana Amador has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pedro Alves, I was listening to you and I did not believe what you were listening to. It is because you spoke of instability, when you created it, you spoke of disinvestment, when you were VV. For example, for four and a half years they invested in public school and advocated a policy of cuts, taking away 1400 million euros from our schools,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...and talked about a theory of chaos when he doesn't exist. On the other hand, they altered the curriculum matrix. And they did it not because it was necessary to think about what was essential in learning. Do you know why you've altered your curriculum matrix, Mr? Do you know why they decided to change that matrix without studies and without hearing who it was? Because it was necessary to make cuts in education.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u7	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u8	It was not to think of valuing public school, it was in this sense: I have to cut and so I will change the matrix; I have to take teachers from the teaching system and so increase the number of students per class. That is, all they did was destabilize the public school, it was to disinvest in public school, it was to devalue our teachers and all the educational agents. So, Mr President and the PSD Parliamentary Group, what I want to tell you is that we are blocking your cut-off policies. Yes, we are working on them for the stability and recovery of public school. We stopped your focused and baffling vision in exams, lead and failure,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u9	... that have increased with VV. For example, in periods, years and transition cycles. And we did it for stability and public school. And we set up an implosion agenda — implosion, yes, because Nuno Crato wanted to implode the Ministry of Education and the public school. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have done all this to give stability, to give serenity. Above all, because we believe that public school is the guarantor of equal opportunities. We have a different view, a different ideological view and we make a different bet in our school. Contrary to what they said — and yesterday was evident — there was no less with us, there was more. There were more teachers in the teaching system, more psychologists, more non-teaching staff, more works in schools, more involvement of local power...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u10	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u11	...and, yes, more equality and more equity. Until the study visits to the missing students, you cut them off.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u12	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u13	And we recently resumed study visits and assigned school textbooks. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Above all, we believe that it is for school, for teaching and for the knowledge that we go there and not for the policy of cuts.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u14	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u15	Instability was VV. For example, they created, interrupting a lead wire that no other PSD government has dared to interrupt, over 40 years of democracy. You did it. It's bad! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u16	To request clarification, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u17	Mr President, Mr. Pedro Alves, the government has published — and it has been in public consultation until recently — what is intended to be the profile of students out of compulsory education. This profile of students is being studied, reflecting — from a working group — the skills that students should have when they leave compulsory education. And because skills mean more than knowledge, i.e. attitudes, abilities. By competences you mean things that involve complex reasonings, know how to do, know how to be, solve problems, literature, critical thinking, creative thinking, skills that involve both technique and aesthetics, such as theory, autonomy, consciousness. All of this is part of the profile of the student who wants to get out of compulsory education. It is a profile of the student that has nothing to do with the student of the 19th century, nor with the school of the 19th century, of learning to read, write and count. It's true, it's a much more complex and much more difficult profile. What I wanted to ask the PSD is whether you agree with this profile of the student, so complex and so difficult, that it is being defined. It is that this profile of the student is not compatible with the current curriculum of schools and is not compatible with the current programs in schools. Therefore, if we want this new profile of the 21st century, we must rethink the current curriculum that has no citizenship, that has no practice, that has no space for music, art and experimental classes. So the great risk we are now taking is not the risk of not changing. The risk we are now facing is that, in making this assessment, we will not identify the mistakes of the past. The Truck High School, like so many other schools, was excited about this process and gave an opinion on this skill plan, this profile of the student, which demonstrates how this profile of the student is being discussed. It refers to the Second School of Trucks in this opinion that, to be honest, this profile of the student has to be accompanied by changes in schools, has to have a practical effect. And this is the big challenge.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u18	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u19	I will finish, Mr. President. The current curriculum, which now exists, was very useful to save money to the former government in teachers, but made families spend money on explanations. The current Mathematics program is a program that is being made for only 30% of students to succeed. Does the PSD agree with this school and with this program made for an elite to succeed? Or you agree with the profile that is now defined and that you need a new curriculum and, obviously, also to update your contents...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u20	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u21	... so that the skills and future of our students out of public school are much more complex, much more comprehensive than the simple "reading and counting" that was in the current curriculum, so cheap, so cheap for the previous government, but that it will come out so expensive to these students and that it was done without discussion in the school community? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u22	Before giving the floor to Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, I remembered Mrs. Members who request clarification are 2 minutes, so the Bureau is not available to tolerate the continuation of the practice of the 2 minutes becoming 3 minutes. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, you have the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it has been mentioned right now in the curriculum reform or, better said, in the curriculum flexibility and it is worth remembering where it was born. It was born from the government's plan to save, rescue the educational system of the goals of the previous government and the alleged curriculum in Portuguese and Mathematics. And, as in the case of the exams, it was an emergency. It was so urgent that it was started in October to be applied already in 2017 in the beginning years of cycle. And it was so obvious and so obvious that it would reinforce disciplines such as History, Geography and Physical Education, while bringing the Project Area and Education to Citizenship. All of this, cutting the curriculum by 25 %. And after the results of the PISA, I would not even move into the time load of Portuguese and Mathematics. And it was so critical, so critical that it even surpassed the Government's own Programme, which talked about progressive, planned and negotiated reforms. And with it he also exceeded the FENPROF (National Federation of Teachers), the Council of Schools, the parents, the scientific societies, who complain that they are not all involved in the process. Now, before this rescue mission of the Ministry of Education, so urgent, so obvious and so critical, it would be expected, as announced and renunciated, that it would be given the highest priority. But what's going on? Apparently, it is the Prime Minister himself who is fully behind this reform and this progress. And apparently because it's election year and it's best not to "raise up waves" at a time when the school year starts.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u25	So, Mr. Pedro Alves, my question is simply this: in a very rapid reading of this data, would you say that this government values the skills of students or electoral rankings more? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u26	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Ana Mesquita.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u27	Mr President, I begin by saying that the PSD today remembered that it wanted to solve problems that arose or that it brutally deepened when it was in the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u29	Does Mr Pedro Alves mean that the time of the PSD/CDS government was good for public school? Is that really what you mean? Oh, my God! With everything that happened in those days? With the bleeding of teachers, with the budget cuts, with the increase in the number of students per class, with the cuts to the beneficiaries of school social action, with the suspension and interruption of works in so many schools? Oh, my God! What, then, is Mr Pedro Alves, the PSD position to effectively value public school? Will they support the reduction in the number of students per class? Do you agree that you go further on the question of linking teachers? Do you agree, then, with the change in the ratio of operational assistants, that you have designed and implemented in the previous government?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u30	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u31	That's the stuff. Let us then see if the concerns that PSD brings here today are more than just crocodile tears or if the truth is that, when it is in government, the practice does not correspond at least to the words they bring here.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u32	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u33	This is a determining issue. It is true that there are problems in schools, that there are issues to solve. But it is also true that the CFP has put forward numerous initiatives in the House of the Republic to solve these same problems, to solve the problems that you have created and to deepen. And where was the PSD at that time? Where's the PSD, actually? in fact, what is the PSD response to families, students, school, school community? What we see is that there is a tremendous disparity between what you come here to say and what you then do when you are in government. This is the big question.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u34	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u35	When we talk about the lack of human and material resources in schools, what was the response of the previous government? Cuts and more cuts and more cuts. And what we say is that's not the way. The way of valuing public school goes through many of the proposals that the CFP has presented here and will continue to present in the sense of effective public school appreciation. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u36	In response to requests for clarification, Mr Pedro Alves of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u37	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank all the questions that have been asked to me and I will seek, in a very synthetic and objective way, to answer what has been asked of me. Mrs. Susana Amador, I want to tell you that we are very calm about the results obtained by students in the latest TIMSS ( Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study) and PISA tests. These, yes, are our identity, our digital impression of the investment that has been made in education in recent years and, Mrs. Member, I hope they are the starting point for improving the results of our students. It was in the students that we focused our concern,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u38	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u39	...we do not sell the Ministry of Education and do not hand it over to the extreme left to support a minority government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u41	More: in relation to the action of this government, what actually exists is more school dropout. This is the first mark that you have: more early school dropout, more lack of investment, more lack of employees in schools, more delays in paying school textbooks to needy students. This is the action of this government!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u42	That's not true! That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u43	Mrs. Joana Mortágua speaks of the profile of the student. As you know very well—and I recognize you know—the profile of the student is directly related to the curriculum. If you speak here in curriculum flexibility, if you speak in curriculum review, if you are so concerned about the profile of students, if you are so worried...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u44	I'm glad you agree!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u45	... and if that really is your priority, then ask your Prime Minister why he forced the suspension of the curriculum, do you know what the PSD position is? I tell you, the PSD position is very simple. Have you read the opinion of the School Council? Have you ever had the opportunity to read the opinion of the School Council on the profile of the student? There you will certainly find many of the answers where the PSD looks about the profile of the student.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u46	Does the PSD have no position? Are you in favor or against?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u47	The honourable Member should not have done her homework well, because if she had done so, what she would be demanding here today would be that the curriculum reform — your curriculum flexibility! — forward. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] Mrs Ana Mesquita, it is strange that you have only remembered all these issues today. [[PCP laughter.]] Neither the honourable Member nor any of the ladies of other seats give us any kind of lesson as to public investment in education.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u48	They've learned everything they had to learn!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u49	We, in the PSD, when we were alone in the government for 10 years,... [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u50	Listen up, listen up!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u51	... we left a mark, which was that we built more than 800 schoolsEB 2, 3 across the country — 800 schools, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u52	It's a PCP built zero! Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u53	Schools with association contracts!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u54	from the PCP, I would say a figure recognized in our square: « Bola! They didn’t strictly do anything! Not a school, Mrs. Member, not a school! They do not teach us lessons in this matter!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u55	This government is solving more problems than its own!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u56	As for the number of students per class, what I am surprised is that you have all initiatives in this field...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u57	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u58	...and they haven't even been able to find a single text that joined you all three. If you don't join each other in a single text, do you want the PSD to solve the problems? Oh, my God! Who has to solve the problems in this legislature is the government, it is your government! [[Protests from BE and PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u59	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u60	Finally, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, I would like to say that it is not worth it, because we know that this government and this Prime Minister always put the interests of the party in front of the country's interests...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u62	...and, therefore, they value electoral rankings much more than the students' own interests. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u63	You have no opinion of anything!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u64	Mr Carlos Pereira of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u66	Sir, excuse me for asking the honourable Members. Members who create conditions for Mr Carlos Pereira to be heard with the respect he deserves. Please proceed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the midst of obsessive austerity, almost sadistic, carried out by previous governance and carried out with the abdication of the role of partner between equal in European institutions, attitudes that, fortunately, ended with the current government, opaque curtains concealed shocking stories of Portuguese government life during this dark period of PSD / CDS governance. But as these times become clearer, we are gradually getting to know these sad episodes and we are better understanding why the effort of the current government cannot cool down, it cannot stop. Mr President, in the midst of such a legacy that still curses Portugal, there is one aspect that occupies a central place for its importance: the situation of the Portuguese bank and the reasons that prevented a more vigorous and decisive intervention, capable of countering the weaknesses of the Portuguese financial system. There can be no very different readings or golden perceptions of reality: the BES ( Banco Espírito Santo ) and Banco Internacional do Funchal ( Banco Internacional do Funchal ) have disappeared from the Portuguese financial system and none of them have a history that excludes the PSD and CDS responsibilities. Even worse: even if, with supreme effort, it was possible to find successful options in those black years of the right government, what we observe is almost always a driving wire that is impossible to hide or forget. It prevailed sympathy for the dialectics who benefited the external interest, to the detriment of the assertive commitment to the safeguard of the country; it dominated the neoliberal ideological conception of the crisis, to the detriment of the social perspective of the conditions that allowed the protection of the weakest; they gained lightness and amadorism, in contrast with the necessary sense of responsibility, professionalism and resilience to counter the theses that humiliated Portugal and the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I imagine some of the ladies. Members might be thinking that I exaggerate the characterization of the situation...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u68	Don't...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u69	... and that this message is not sustainable in reality nor glues to the knowledge we have of the situation. So let us go back to the bank and to the facts we know. In the face of a rumb of EUR 5000 million, the current leader of the CDS and former Minister of the PSD/CDS Government declared, for all Portuguese to listen, without any hint, black in white, who signed the solution from cross to the BES and who did so, with an unsustainable lightness, because it was in vacation time. And he also added, so as not to let the former coalition partner fall for now, who acted like this because Mrs. Ex-Minister Maria Luís Albuquerque, always she asked him for it in an urgent situation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was thus, with its electronic signature, but without reading what signed, in a solarian and light prose, that the current CDS leader informed the country of how it joined the PSD for, minutes before going to the beach, giving rise to an army of injured, causing damage to millions of Portuguese taxpayers and, no less important, leaving hundreds of employees without ground. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] Surprises, however, do not stay here. We also learned that the Council of Ministers at that time did not discuss the problems of the bank. There were EUR 12 billion reserved for the restructuring of the Portuguese financial system, but Passos Coelho was entertained by the colossal increase in taxes, with the serious challenges to the institutions of the Republic, in particular the Constitutional Court, with the indelibrated and insolent obsession of impoverishing the country or depriving the poor of social benefits that kept them from human dignity - it should indeed be what they were talking about in the Council of Ministers. We now know that nothing was said in the Council of Ministers about the banking system. The country therefore has the right to know who, for action but also for omission, has shaken the entire financial system and has retained part of it, that is, who has decided nothing to do in the application of the funds negotiated to go to the financial system and restructure the public and private bank. That is what I said, in a recent interview, the suspicious Chairman of the Board of Auditors of Banco de Portugal, who chaired the independent committee that carried out the evaluation of the situation of BES and the Espírito Santo Group. According to economist João da Costa Pinto, the Coelho Pass Government was too weak for BES, and could have forced this bank to use the funding line. However, this well-known economist still points out that he does not understand what the government has prevented from using the remaining EUR 6 billion that were intended to withstand the coup that the Portuguese bank would suffer from the application of the Memorandum of Troika. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u70	It's embarrassing your speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u71	Mr President, in the PSD/CDS Government's attitude, there has been a perverse bias that is at the root of the financial system's complications. The PSD and the CDS only had eyes on the deficit, because they were convinced that their reduction and, above all, the achievement of the set targets — always failed, stressed — were the guarantee of a clean exit and, consequently, of the renewal of the parliamentary majority. After all, they failed! Therefore, they did not want to know whether the increase in taxes mistreated the country or whether the successive reductions in social benefits were violently offensive to the poorest and, in this almost delirious context, much less appreciated the need to restructure the bank. It was also for these reasons that they hid and pushed forward Banif's solutions and ignored, ostensibly and with tremendous lightness, the refusal of eight restructuring plans, all returned by the European Commission. It was another bank that could have had another destination, plus an immensity of injured people who still seek solutions and more costs to bear by taxpayers, but once again, for reasons that mix party opportunism and factual neglect, ended without any solution. Only the sense of responsibility of the current Government of the Socialist Party saved the autonomous regions and thousands of depositors from suffering from the insanity of the PSD and the CDS. Mr President, the PS has already said several times and in various ways that one of the main vertices of the Troika Programme was the restructuring of the financial system.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u72	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u73	The PSD/CDS government has failed to do so and has left the country in an almost endless financial tomb which has required the current government to strengthen means and attention to solve what should already be resolved. The Christian Assumption revelations do not surprise us, but they serve that not a glove to widen the role of facts that justify the responsibilities of the PSD and the CDS...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u74	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u75	... and sentence, at one time, what should have long been clear: when the PS arrived to the government, unfortunately, everything was already broken. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u76	Mr Carlos Pereira, the Bureau registered three Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, request clarification. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u77	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u78	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u79	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u80	Mr President, for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u81	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we heard an intervention here accusing, even of sadomasoquism... [[PS laughter.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, they laugh at each other. Mr President, I would like to ask for a certificate of the statement and of the speeches of the Socialist Party Member who has just used the floor for the appropriate purposes which I will understand for the proper purpose. [[Congrats from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u83	Madam Member, when the plenary adopts the minutes of this meeting, it will be available to all Members. To request clarification from Mr Carlos Pereira, Mr Miguel Tiago of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Carlos Pereira, I would like to congratulate you on the topic and on the approach to the financial system, which must continue to deserve the concern of all Portuguese and, above all, of the parties and of the Assembly of the Republic. First of all, as we have come to realize, the full responsibility and costs of the action of the former Government, PSD/CDS, as far as the financial system is concerned are concerned. The truth is that how the government managed its relationship with the bank and how they lent or gave money to banks to push the problems forward or hide them under the carpet has been ineffective in solving the problems. It has even caused new problems that are now being discovered, not only those of BANIF and BES, but also including costs that Caixa is still taking on the options of a wrong recapitalisation in 2012 by the PSD/CDS government. On the issues which you put, in particular, on the functioning of the Council of Ministers and on statements, however publicized, by Mrs Cristian Mrs Assumption, and, if you add to this, a behaviour which the CDS has adopted in Parliament, of two, one or both are true: or the CDS is trying to escape, attempting to relieve the responsibilities it has in participation in the previous government —... [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] ... which before took pride but now seems not to want to accept so easily and whenever it can try to escape this assumption of responsibilities—or, then, the meetings of the Council of Ministers demonstrate and well illustrate how the previous government dealt with the problems of the bank. while trying to find ways to spy on Portuguese, to withdraw income, to steal wages, to withdraw holidays, to take holidays, finally, to attack public services of all forms and spells, they tried to lend 4, 9 billion euros to the bank, with a small signature when on holiday,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u85	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u86	... with full confidence in the Minister of Finance. It was 4, 9 billion for BES, treated with a signature, without even reading before signing. This also demonstrates not only the ease with which the CDS dealt with a matter of this seriousness, as it demonstrates, with equal responsibilities, how the PSD dealt with matters with this importance for Portuguese and for the stability of the financial system in the Government itself, in the Council of Ministers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u87	To request clarifications you have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Block of the Left.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by congratulating the PS for bringing this issue to debate. The financial system has a dual nature: it is essential to economic activity because it creates currency — it is the only institution capable of creating currency because we do not have monetary autonomy — but it is also the ability to create currency and, therefore, to leverage debt cycles which, together with the complexity and opacity of the financial system, gives it an inherently unstable nature, i.e. the financial system is itself a crisis enhancer, can create financial crises and economic crises. That is why the bank, because of its ability to create currency and also to create crises, should be very regulated, very carefully scrutinized and should be under the public and democratic control of the economies, peoples and States. The importance of the banking system in any society requires close monitoring of monetary policy bodies and instruments, as well as governments, supervisors and regulators. It is incredible and unacceptable that for four years in Portugal, after the biggest financial crisis the world has experienced since 1929, in the heat of the biggest financial crisis, neither the supervision nor the government that should follow the financial system did so in Portugal. It is unacceptable that the former Government has never discussed the bank's problem in the Council of Ministers. It is unacceptable that the strategy that the previous Prime Minister had for the General Deposit Box was to tell the previous administrator: "Look, hold the boat. And, if possible, try to give credit to companies'. This is not acceptable in a post-crisis, it is not acceptable at any time! It is unacceptable that the former Government has deposited all the power to supervise, regulate, control, intervene in the bank in Carlos Costa, that Carlos Costa has played a bad role and a bad mandate and that it has been rewarded and renewed for this, because it has lent a favor to the former Government, who does not want to take responsibility! [[Congratulations from BE.]] It is unacceptable, it is irresponsible and contradictory, yes, everything that has been done in austerity, in cuts, in demands.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u90	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u91	Mr President, I conclude by not forgetting that the Government of the Socialist Party also has responsibilities and therefore has to answer whether Governor Carlos Costa has the conditions to continue to supervise the bank and to what extent will the sale of the New Bank to a hedge fund contribute to increasing the stability of the financial system. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u92	For clarifications, Mrs Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u93	Mr President, Mr Carlos Pereira, I listened carefully to you and I doubted that you really want to have this debate? It is that the CDS has never stolen, quite the contrary, put on the agenda debates on the banking system, but we have always done them on another plane and with another elevation. Mr. Carlos Pereira went up to the rostrum and spoke—and I think he heard well— about curtains that have hidden shocking stories in the past? Oh, my God! Mr. Deputy is PS, isn't he? What curtains are these? Are the curtains behind which you have hidden the bankruptcy of Portugal and the negotiations with the troika? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] Or will it be the curtains behind which a former Prime Minister of the PS ended up involved in a mega-operation on tax fraud and corruption? Which one of these curtains will you be talking about? You want to talk about the curtains behind which the BES or the Box hid? Is that how you want to discuss the BES and the Box, behind the curtains that the PS government, the same government that made these curtains, the government of the former Prime Minister Socrates, who had several ministers who today are ministers? These are the curtains we want to discuss here?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u94	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u95	The CDS has always been very clear and has always said that to justice what is justice and politics what is politics. But, Mr. Carlos Pereira, if you want to talk about curtains and shocking stories, we are absolutely available for that.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u96	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u97	Mr President, I assure you that you will not be! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] And now that he speaks of BES, which speaks of Caixa, and which speaks of the very difficult situation of the Portuguese banking system, he also speaks of the origin of this difficulty, which, in correct Portuguese, is said to be 'bad credit' and in current Portuguese if he says 'calotes', well think of who these cans are,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u98	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u99	... stop hiding from who the cassettes are and think about what was Vítor Constâncio's supervision and the responsibility the PS had in that supervision. This is because from this point of view, Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u100	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u101	... the PS has, in fact, many and many explanations to give and will probably pass many decades until the country finally sees itself free from the errors and evils that the PS has done in government and in supervision. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u102	To answer the questions, Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u103	Mr. President, thank you to the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen who asked me questions. I begin precisely by replying to Mrs Cecilia Meireles, telling her that, while I listened to her, she was being intrigued by the fact that she knew so much about the matter and the Mrs Cristian Assumption recently said, in an interview, that they had never talked about it in the Council of Ministers and that she knew very little about it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u104	That's good!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u105	It is indeed very strange and very disturbing to Members. But, Mrs Deputy, on this matter, we have reached a point where what is extraordinary, which is truly relevant no longer exactly the end of the Banco Espírito Santo or the end of the Banco Espírito Santo. What is truly extraordinary, and even strange, is the government which the honourable Member has supported and which has responsibilities for the end of these two banks, as well as the entities and individualities that were part of that government, say today that it has not been discussed, that the matter was not discussed in the Council of Ministers, that they had no idea what solution they would have to have on this subject. Now, we have reached a point which is most relevant today is no longer exactly the end of the banks, but truly what has not been done and which should have been done. This should reflect VV. Ex. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]] Mrs Cecilia Meireles, my speech had, above all, two aspects that seem very relevant to me. First, in a country where the bank was experiencing the difficulties we all know, in a country where the bank was about to implode—and in some cases even spread spread spread everywhere—how is it possible that the Council of Ministers has not discussed the matter? This is a question that, today, all Portuguese are asking, is a question for which all Portuguese want an answer. I was hoping that Mrs. Cecilia Meireles, when she got up to intervene, had given the answer,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u106	I was also hoping they wouldn't put the country in bankruptcy!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u107	... had explained why they didn't discuss the matter, why they didn't talk about it. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]] But there is more, Mrs Deputies: the other relevant issue in the speech that I made and that the honourable Member hid was why they did not use the remaining EUR 6 billion to restructure the bank. Were you convinced that everything was normal, that it was okay, that there were no difficulties? Why didn't you use that amount? [[Protests by Mrs Cecilia Meireles.]] In fact, I would like to remind the honourable Member of a 2014 news from the former Minister of Finance, who basically said that the Government wanted to keep the rest of the bank aid line « for other purposes», I repeat « for other purposes»! Now, today, the Portuguese must be imagining that "other purposes" would be those. Only if it was the end of the bank, the rest of the bank's end, because no one understands why you did not use all the available financial resources properly and properly. And, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not just us who think this, there are several reports from several individuals who commented on this same matter, who said that the money from the troika for bank restructuring was misused. One of these individuals was Faria de Oliveira — the suspect Faria de Oliveira — another was Mr. Duarte Pacheco, who said that the money available should be used more and more insistently in the bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u108	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u109	I'm done now, Mr. President. Therefore, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, in fact, this debate should not have happened,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u110	Yeah, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u111	... but in order not to have happened, there had to be answers about what happened in the Council of Ministers and that Mrs Cristian Assumption had not come to say what the Portuguese did not know, i.e. that the matter of the bank had never been discussed in the Council of Ministers. Mr President, allow me a tolerance to tell Mr Miguel Tiago and Mrs Mariana Mortágua that, in the face of truth, what is now needed is what the Socialist Party is doing: trying to resolve what has not been resolved by the PSD/CDS Government: restructuring the bank, normalizing the financial system to do what it has to do, which is to help the economy and help the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u112	Mr José Moura Soeiro, from the Left Block, has the floor for a political statement. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I call again to sit down and create conditions for Mr José Soeiro to intervene. The noise from the presidency makes it clear that you cannot speak in a dignified manner. Can I ask you this favor? [[Pause.]] You have the floor, Mr. José Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In recent days, thousands of employers who have not paid their workers' contributions to social security are receiving notifications to pay a fine for this delay. This is a standard that exists in the Contribution Code since 2011 and is being applied this month of March for the first time. The Block feels very well that these fines are applied to companies that retain workers' contributions. This practice is condemned, in some cases the law even foresees it as a crime. All measures which are zealous for the discounts of those who work and who protect social security deserve our support. What nobody expected — nor does it make any sense at all — is to treat an undertaking which unlawfully retains foreign contributions and an independent worker who one day delayed paying his own contributions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u115	In fact, in recent days it has not been only the non-compliant companies that have received notifications to pay the fines. Thousands of independent workers are receiving a letter to pay a fine, which is at least €50, but which can go up to hundreds of euros. This situation is unacceptable and needs to be tackled now. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to remind ourselves of what we are talking about. Independent workers have been victims of an unfair, unfair and disproportionate contribution scheme for many years. Logically, because they continue to discount not on the basis of what they earn at every moment, but on a scale calculated according to what they earned in the previous year. Unbalanced, because the fixed contribution to which they are obliged does not correspond to the income they have available. disproportionately because self-employed people are called to pay a rate of 29, 6 % for social security, but they have almost no rights. They only have sickness allowance at the end of 31. the day they are sick, it is almost impossible to have protection in unemployment and have no right to care for children. But besides illogical, unbalanced and disproportionate, this regime has had tragic consequences in people's lives. As a result of these rules, many workers have incurred debts, to which interest is added. In many cases, if we were to examine the conditions under which this debt was contracted, we would see until it would be illegitimate, because many of these workers should have had a contract. The green receipt served only to conceal a subordinated employment relationship and to exempt employers from paying their share. But even if this is not the case, there have been many real independent workers who have accumulated debts because of an unfair system and, depending on their debts, have been confronted with executive processes, have seen their accounts weighed and their life suspended. The situation was so serious that the Ombudsman himself intervened several times and, in November last year, in a public statement, he warned of the unsustainable situation of workers who discounted more than they received. According to the Provider, the situations are multiplied as an independent worker who takes €100 per month and has a monthly contribution obligation of €62, €04 or that of the one who took an annual income of €1647, €137 per month on average, and had to choose between meeting their basic needs or meeting their contribution obligation. As he chose to satisfy his basic needs, he was confronted with an executive process against him who cannot pay. It is also these people, who see themselves with the payment of 62 € of their contribution obligation, who started receiving notifications this week to pay a fine of 50 €. This situation must be suspended immediately. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, exactly one year ago, on 15 March 2016, a proposal from this Parliament of the Left Block, included in the State Budget Act for 2016, was adopted with three commitments binding on the Government. The first is to review the self-employed contribution scheme. The second is that, in this review, ensure that contributions are adjusted to the income actually taken by these people. The third is to consider how to extend the social protection of self-employed workers. For many months now, the Left Block has been working with the Government on a concrete proposal for this new regime. This work, which is of greatest importance to us, had developments in the State Budget for 2017, where a proposal from the Block was included which determined that not only small corrections would be made, but that in 2017 there would be a new system of contributions, made under another completely different logic, to end the hell in which the current rules transformed the life of the workers to green receipt. This proposal was approved by the Assembly and was received by hundreds of thousands of workers as an opportunity for justice that finally arrived. That's why today's fines are a serious mistake. The debate we should be having today was on how to implement this commitment here in November of having a system of contributions that brings justice, not on penalties, which was what the previous government had characterized. These fines, if confirmed, can undermine people's confidence in the work we have been doing, give the signal contrary to the commitment we have, are wrong, unfair and disproportionate and therefore have to be suspended. The Left Block will deliver today, therefore, a proposal in this Parliament with four objectives. The first is to cancel the effect of these fines issued in the last week. The second is to suspend, until the new scheme of contributions is approved, these massive counter-ordinations to self-employed workers who are not employers The third is to distinguish, in the contribution code, a company that is left with the money of the workers of an independent worker who cannot, at any given time, pay their full contribution, Finally, speed up the process of presenting and approving the new scheme which has to enter into force this year.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u116	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u117	Mr President, I conclude by saying the following: this is the minimum that Parliament must do. We have the genuine expectation that the Government will take clear and public measures to avoid this injustice, to deal differently with what is different, to ensure the stability of people's concrete life and to implement a new regime that links them to social security and that rescues the contributing justice they have right. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u118	Mr President, four of us have signed up. Ladies and gentlemen, request clarification. As Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro wishes to answer two, to make the first request for clarification, he has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u119	Mr President, Mr José Moura Soeiro, the issue that brings us here this afternoon and the debate on this subject cannot ignore the recent past of what has existed for many years in the field of precariousness in Portugal. In fact, especially during the previous government, the general fight against precariousness was forgotten around an idea of flexible labour law, around an idea that green receipts were part of a fertilizer that fed vast fringes of precariousness in our country, weakening the tissues of labour stability to which all workers are entitled. in the present case, the fight against precariousness was placed as a priority in the Government Programme and in the last State budget a legislative authorisation was introduced and approved under the self-employed contribution scheme. In other words, the Government is authorized to make changes to the self-employed contribution scheme. This legislative authorization, which I think is important to stress in this debate, among other areas of intervention, will review the rules and framework and the production of effects of the self-employed, establish new rules of exemption and the absence of an obligation to contribute, amend the way in which the basis of contribution incidence, relevant income and calculation of contributions, establish transitional rules for the new contribution scheme for self-employed workers and, in general, correct an injustice with regard to contributions, approaching the month considered for remuneration purposes at the time of the definition of the amount of contribution. Therefore, with this we are fulfilling many of the expectations that are being generated around this matter and, above all, those that come to us from the social partners. This work, with these and other dimensions, is being done in conjunction with our parliamentary allies and it is to be worth this year, it is not for December, but we are still in March, so we will soon have a fairer and more equitable regime, fulfilling what we are committed to. However, we have a transitional period in which we have to find a solution for these workers and this is the matter that the Left Block brings here this afternoon.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u120	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u121	I will finish, Mr. President. The law already determines the application of fines to which no contributions are paid within the legal period, whether undertakings or workers. There is no responsibility of the current government for a past government decision, but we know that it does not make sense that legislation sets a counter-ordination for late payment of contributions and then services do not apply it, discrediting the Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u122	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u123	I will finish, Mr. President. Therefore, it is important to look at this issue with justice and balance, safeguarding the integrity of the system, safeguarding the expectations that are created and continuing to work to find solutions. It is with this spirit of commitment, openness and dialogue that we are in this debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u124	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u125	Mr President, Mr José Soeiro, after listening, for the first time having agreed with the honourable Member in a matter which he referred to in his political statement: in fact, this government is not reliable. This government, as the honourable Member mentioned, had a commitment in 2016 to amend the contribution regime of self-employed workers, and did not. In 2017, you presented a proposal, which has been approved, and now have a legislative authorization to amend the contribution regime of self-employed workers. The problem is in your hands,'management' has to find a solution to this issue and to which you have brought it. But what you just did was a pure demagogy exercise. Mr President, yesterday you asked your Minister — and I stress, the word 'your' — what was the solution he had to deal with this particular problem? He asked. And what did Mr. Minister say to you? That there was no solution because the law is to be fulfilled. Mr Member, you are in government, you are supporting the government — you must be sorry already... — they must therefore understand each other. Taking advantage of the fact that the Socialist Party's Member has mentioned a recent past, I would like to take advantage of asking who in the recent past, in the PSD/CDS government, has really been concerned with self-employed people. Who, for the first time, has guaranteed them social benefits? Who, for the first time, has guaranteed them the right to unemployment benefit? Mr President, is this concern about self-employed people or not? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u126	To reply, Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u127	Mr President, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, the green receipt workers know what their relationship with the previous government was. It was a relationship of persecution, they were debts, they were penorated accounts, they were suspended lives and it was the maintenance of an unfair, disproportionate and totally outspoken system of independent workers. In fact, when the Ombudsman refers to the situation of self-employed persons, who have to pay a higher contribution than their income, he knows what rules he is referring to? To the rules that your Government wanted to maintain and I will even tell you more, Mrs Deputies: we have tabled a proposal in the previous Parliament to change the scheme of workers' contributions to green receipts and to bring them justice and the PSD has led this proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u128	Change now! They're government now!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u129	Therefore, honourable Member, do not try to 'wash whiter' because what is happening is also responsible for a system of contributions that we are trying to change and that you have wanted to keep. So I would also like to talk about the future, because, Mr Barbosa Ribeiro, we certainly agree on three essential aspects. The first is that these workers were persecuted by the former government and victims of this unjust system. The second is that the work we have already started on a new regime totally different from the previous one and that we have done together, in the majority, is of the greatest importance, because it is the opportunity to bring some justice to these workers. The third aspect concerns fines — because that is also the subject we have brought to debate — and we must have the notion of the atrocious injustice that these fines have been sent out. Therefore, Mr President, we are interested in finding a solution and we have the expectation that, within the majority, and in coordination with the Government, there is a concrete solution to this matter. We count on the government, because this injustice has to be suspended now, and Parliament must correspond to the hope and expectation created by these workers as to the approval of a new regime that redeems the contribution justice for self-employed people. Mr President, we have no time to lose and that is why we brought this debate and this proposal to Parliament and we count on the majority partners to respond to the urgent need to bring justice to these workers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u130	For a second round of requests for clarification, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u131	Mr President, Mr José Soeiro, I welcome you with the political statement here, because the situation of the self-employed workers here is important and deserves to be discussed. Since the importance of contributions to social security is clear, as a crucial matter for its defence and its strengthening, and this requires, firstly, to work on ensuring the payment in time and time, by employers, of discounts on social security, which is an obligation they have. The data we have are that 77 % of the notifications were about companies that did not pay their workers' social security discounts in time and time. Another thing that is also required as an important and priority is to find an appropriate scheme of social security discounts on the part of self-employed. It is in this work that the CFP has been committed, because it considers it to be elementary justice. The social security contribution scheme that exists today on the part of true independent workers is unfair and is deeply inadequate. Now, it is up to justice to ensure that for four years PSD and CDS refused, i.e., to find a social security discount scheme based on the income actually taken by these people, ensuring their social protection. We are now curious to hear the PSD, which for four years had nothing to say about the flight of EUR 10 billion to offshore, but, for independent workers, applied penhoras and persecutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u132	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u133	Therefore, this well demonstrates the practice of two pesos policy and two measures for those who have no other income than that of their work and for those who practice and wash money in offshore. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u134	for our part, we strongly condemn this policy of two pesos and two measures and we believe that the opportunity we now have to review the social security discount scheme is fundamental. Mr José Moura Soeiro, with this, also wanted to tell you that it is important to distinguish what is a true worker independent of a false green receipt, and a false green receipt must see your situation regularized. It is therefore necessary to have employment contracts with rights and not self-employed persons without being entitled to what is envisaged.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u135	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u136	I'm done now, Mr. President. The CFP will continue to engage in two things: in the revision of the social security discount regime, making it fair and proportionate to the reality of independent work, and in the fight against the eradication of false green receipts and the recognition of working conditions. It's an opportunity we have and we're not going to stop taking advantage of it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u137	To request clarification from Mr José Moura Soeiro, Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u138	Mr President, Mr José Moura Soeiro, I understand your inconvenience: I wanted a new contribution regime for those who work on green receipts and so far have nothing. Yesterday, he asked the Minister of Labour a question about whether he intended to suspend or revoke the application of fines to which he delayed paying social security and works at green receipts and the answer he received was: “ Not at all! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” So I understand your discomfort. It is your government, which you support, which has not fulfilled, in one thing or another, what you want!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u139	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u140	Mr José Moura Soeiro told us here that he would present an initiative on this subject. I confess I was curious. It's gonna be what? A bill? A draft resolution? And now that initiative will actually go to the vote? Will this initiative be to vote or will it be those that go down without a vote and try to mislead workers at green receipts? Unfortunately, we are already used to these scenes of the Left Block to deceive the people with whom you have made electoral commitments. In fact, I am telling you from now on that the CDS is obviously concerned about what the Government intends to do with the revision of the contribution regime for whom it is an independent worker. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] I confess that perhaps you may have more information than we do. But so far, we have no information and what we fear with this government is the worst, that is, that this review effectively serves to increase contributions and not to reduce them, contrary to what Mr and the other parties who support this government have been promising those who work at green receipts. Therefore, Mr President, at least once. What will it do if the PS rejects its legislative initiative on this matter? Are you going to remove consequences? Which ones? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u141	To reply, Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u142	Mr President, Mr António Carlos Monteiro, as representative of the voices of the past of persecution to the workers who are on green receipts, we know what was the mandate of the CDS. [[CDS-PP protests.]] at the same time that it ordered social security to overwhelm the accounts of workers who could not pay €62 per month because they did not receive enough and that contribution did not have a relationship with the income they received in each month, your government and your Secretary of State closed their eyes to the billions of euros that fled the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u143	Did you close your eyes? Oh, my God! Shame on you, Mr. Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u144	They closed their eyes to those who did not pay taxes, made lists for VIP taxpayers, while chasing those who had the rope in their throat for not being able to pay the contributions of their work. That was the mark of your injustice. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] Sir, we know what irritates the right.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u145	Tell me what it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u146	The right is irritated because the Block does not give up its commitments. [[CDS-PP laughter.]] It is true, Mr António Carlos Monteiro: we have not given up on our commitments and, yes, we will present an initiative in this Parliament for something concrete, which is to solve people's lives and suspend these fines that have begun to be applied.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u147	Do they vote for the initiative or not? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u148	That is what we want, that is why we will fight and that is why we are convinced that will happen and certainly without the right to support any measure of justice for these workers. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs Rita Rato, the Bloc and the CFP agree that there is a need for a system of contributions that is fair, as well as for something else: as the contribution code provides, and well, companies that retain contributions from workers, i.e. those who retain money that is not from them and that belongs to the workers, having to be given social security, must be subject to a counter-ordination, a fine and must be obliged to restore the money that is not from them and that belongs to the workers in social security. Madam Member, we also agree, I think, that the contribution code cannot deal with realities that are totally different. A company that illegally retains contributions from workers is not the same as a worker who delays paying his own contribution, above all in a system that has such unfair rules. It is to eliminate this injustice that is now happening and to be able to correct it in the new regime in which we have been working that we will present an initiative and bring this issue to Parliament. We are sure, because this has been the story, that the PCP will be on our side in this fight. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u149	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Bringing to the political statements the lives of the disabled Portuguese, the dramas with which their families are discussed and the difficulties facing the institutions that support them is to ensure that we will always be talking about the greatest political event. It is a current that does not always occupy the space of public discussion, nor does it fill the most prominent news, but that must be at the heart of our concerns. A society is only fair and supportive if it looks at disabled citizens with the attention they deserve and if they seek to develop comprehensive and integrated policies that meet their rights. The proposals presented by the CDS this week result in a presence and involvement with various citizens and their families and with those institutions that are also at their side. We know that the challenges we face and the hope they raise are always beyond our ability to answer, but it is our duty to take steps in the right direction, promoting the improvement of their living conditions. In some cases, we propose measures that solve concrete, attainable, fair problems. This is the case of the proposal that promotes the adoption of a single disability proof document, with a view to extending the use of the multi-use disability medical certificate. The obtaining of this attestation is decisive so that they can have tax and labor benefits. however, in order to obtain other benefits or support, particularly in areas such as social security, education or health, the attestation or not is accepted or other documents supporting disability are requested. The disabled person, in these cases, has to go through several public services in order to obtain several documents that prove his disability and disability. This bureaucratic burden is even more painful when the person with disabilities has motor limitations and often has no one who can assist them in the various journeys to which they are forced. We also propose that the National Early Intervention System be extended from 6 to 10 years old and that there be an increase in parental leave in situations of premature birth, rare disease or disability. in our understanding, it is not only necessary, as it is fair, to create a positive discrimination in the duration of the initial parental leave for those who had a child in these conditions, because what is different deserves a different treatment than is common. These proposals also seek to meet one of the greatest challenges facing disabled citizens, i.e. to promote their autonomy and vocational training. We understand that it should be possible to accumulate the pension and pay up to the reference value. Yesterday, we heard the Secretary of State talking about social benefits for inclusion, which is under public discussion. We welcome this proposal as a working paper that goes in the right direction and we welcome it. But we believe that it is possible and desirable to go further, especially for people whose degree of disability is between 60 % and 80 %. Either the criterion for the allocation of the degree of disability or the criterion for limiting the single social benefit will be set very close to the national minimum wage. We also believe that it is necessary to put an end to the support of European projects for the disabled concerned not only for businesses but also for the disabled citizen directly. That is the only way to promote their professional valorization. Finally, and with regard to the promotion of independent life, the profession of personal assistants should be regulated, which can be an important support for enhancing independent life. In addition, the CDS considers that it is possible and desirable to structure several social responses and rethink occupational activities centers, so we present a proposal on this subject. With this proposal, we intend to promote the definition of a value per user/month with a view to linking services, levels of care and follow-up that is given and promoting a truly inclusive school, in particular by adopting several recommendations from the National Council for Education for Special Education. We also believe that it is urgent to ensure, in the region of Great Lisbon, access to vocational training adapted to people with disabilities and disabilities, in particular to dual-certification B routes, level 2. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, one of the biggest dramas that parents and citizens with disabilities experience concerns the future of these citizens and their living conditions after their parents have disappeared. It is necessary to promote and facilitate planning for the future. We therefore suggest establishing a guarantee plan that promotes the establishment of a savings fund to meet the needs of the future. in this context, we propose again amendments to the Civil Code, strengthening the protection of forbidden or disabled heirs. Finally, we do not forget the particular debt that we, like Portuguese, have before the disabled of the Armed Forces, so we propose an exceptional system of indexing social benefits. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, as we approach the institutions, families and citizens with disabilities, we are questioned by the urgency of their demands and by the indignation about the difficulty of political agents to understand themselves in matters that involve the most vulnerable among us. for our part, we present these proposals with the same openness and humility with which we receive the proposals of the government and of the other banks of this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u151	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u152	I shall conclude, Mr President. our responsibility depends on the results of what we have the courage to approve. And we hope that it will be possible to meet those who need it most. We will continue to make a positive policy, not considering us exempt from presenting proposals for the benefit of the Portuguese and the Country. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u153	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, the Bureau records the inclusion, to request clarification, of three Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. In the meantime, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia informed the Bureau that he wanted to respond to the first request for immediate clarification and that he would then respond together to the other two. Mr Jorge Falcato Simões has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u154	Mr President, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, we welcome the concern of the CDS with the situation of people with disabilities. We note that it is a new concern, because the CDS, which in the previous government even had responsibilities in this area, did not give evidence of great concern. He could have made a difference, but he didn't. The CDS incorporated the Government that left hundreds, if not thousands, of children without access to therapies when they were cut off from special education; the Government that cut into the non-emergency transport of patients, making many disabled people without access to consultations and treatments; the Government that insisted on a policy of austerity, which reflected in a brutal way in the lives of people with disabilities and their families, which led to the request by the United Nations Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in April 2016 to Portugal — and I quote — « to revise the austerity measures that have reduced the services available to people with disabilities and that have led to many of them poverty or extreme poverty. Do not keep on seeking. ” The CDS incorporated the Government which, following the guidelines of the European Union and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, spent many million euros on a policy of institutionalization of people with disabilities in residential homes, which could have been spent on community-based services, allowing these people to remain integrated, socially and affectionately, with their family and friends. The previous government spent millions of those who could have served to materialize an independent life policy, which was strongly demanded by the community of people with disabilities and their representative organizations. My question is this: is the CDS available to reverse this path and, in accordance with the guidelines of the European Commission and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, to support a policy of deinstitutionalization which removes persons with disabilities from homes and provides them with living conditions in their community? Even though they have fallen into the previous legislation a proposal from the Left Block for the implementation of an independent life policy, do they now recognize that it is necessary to put an end to the assistanceist and institutionalizing policies practised in Portugal for decades by successive governments? As for the proposals you have put forward, when we have more detailed knowledge we will talk about. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u155	In the meantime, the Bureau made another request for clarification and the Bureau was informed that the honourable Member will respond, two to two, to the four requests for clarification. You have the floor, first of all, Mrs Idália Serra.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u156	Mr President, first of all, I would like to commend the CDS for bringing here the issue of people with disabilities and policies for people with disabilities, and I would like to note once again that this way of making positive policy is by developing policies that the government is implementing and developing. I would like to greet you, because talking about people with disabilities will never be too much, addressing the issue of people with disabilities will never be too much. I would like to tell you, Mr President, that, when the Socialist Party is aware of the CDS-PP proposals which have entered today, it will certainly have a willingness to evaluate them with all humility, which you have also mentioned recently. Nor can I say that the way, too humble, as here today comes to bring this matter to this House, saying that we should give first-line political attention to people with disabilities, contrary to what you have been doing during the four years that you have been in government. It has already been mentioned here by citizen Jorge Falcato, today our fellow Member, who was at the bottom of the stairways of the Assembly of the Republic with citizen Otilia, with citizen Manuela, with citizen Eduardo Jorge, to whom the previous government created false expectations, who had to start serious forms of struggle to be heard and who once again saw their wishes and commitments assumed to be protected. Mr President, I would like to tell you that I hope that the CDS will now, in effect, bring the issues of disability to the first-line political debate. Mr President, it is very hard not only for me but also for the associations, families and people with disabilities whom you have also spoken, to hear of 'deficits', 'deficit carriers'. Mr President, I ask the CDS to adapt once and for all to the language of international conventions and international documents. It's very degrading and it's hard to hear that way. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But we are humbly available to participate in the discussion and to help build better policies, which the government in turn is already developing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u157	To reply, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u158	Mr President, Mr Jorge Falcato, first of all, I would like to say that on the CDS side we have the capacity to look at these matters far beyond that of our party. Madam Member, I must tell you directly - and I have already said the same to the Secretary of State - that our profound and true expectation is that the political intervention, in particular its and many other citizens who suffer from this reality in the skin, can be for the good of the country, for the benefit of all the people who live this drama, and therefore we look at this openness and this expectation also for its intervention. I must say that, from this point of view, I would expect more of your intervention, because, in fact, you used your time primarily to talk about the past and, if there is something that has to unite us, it is the future, more than we are concerned about the past and even the present. In fact, my reply to that reference could be to have a government with more than 15 months of office and yet nothing has been done.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u159	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u160	We could always be discussing the present and the past, but I believe that what has to unite is the future. And the best answer we can give is to discuss measures, to discuss concrete proposals, to come from where they come from, and that is what we have done here, not being concerned about defending our past. We could do it — we certainly have many things to defend, not everything is certainly bad, but we discussed the proposals that are required of us by the citizens and went to the institutions and families that we tried to go. Therefore, we look highly expectantly at the openness that you have expressed in relation to the knowledge of our proposals, having many of them already entered this week and others will give in later. The same applies to Mrs Idália Serão, who, I know, had responsibilities in this area and who has responsibilities in this area knows that we can always have the speech of the past, the critical assessment, the scrutiny. We all recognise that we have not done everything that was necessary, and therefore, if we do not have the ability, as politicians, to overcome this political and political rhetoric, which is always throwing on the face of others what they have not done, not taking a conscious examination of what they have the ability to propose, we will not be able to take steps forward. Well, that's what we want to break up with. The CDS, when it comes here with this extended set of proposals in different areas, whether in independent life, whether in professional training or in problem solving, is what it wants. Some of these issues are being considered within the government, and we welcome this, but they are not all...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u161	The government is doing this!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u162	The honourable Member has heard the full range of the proposals we have made and what is in public debate by the Government is far from what we have proposed.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u163	We're looking forward to...!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u164	This does not mean that what we have proposed will exhaust everything; on the contrary, there are certainly much more proposals to be made, much more proposals to be made not only by the Government, such as the Socialist Party and the other banks. But what we can say is that we will look at these proposals with complete openness and willingness, above all, to overcome the partisan rhetoric and to meet the needs of Portuguese people, particularly those who are most vulnerable. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u165	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Sandra Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to welcome the CDS-PP for bringing these issues to debate, which are of such importance, and to have presented a package of legislative initiatives that will allow us to have a serious, deep and public discussion that involves all of them, because these issues are absolutely relevant. I also want to greet all institutions and organizations of people with disabilities, people themselves, their families, their caregivers, because they never gave up fighting, tirelessly, for the rights of people with disabilities. I would also like to say that for the PSD this theme will always be above party issues and political combat. It is a supra-party matter that calls us all to bring together a true policy of inclusion, to find the best responses of society to the most vulnerable, to a more inclusive society, to a more just and democratic society. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u167	John Paul II said that the quality of a society is seen, exactly, by the way it treats the most vulnerable. I would like here to have spent 10 years on the entry into force of Decree-Law No 163/2006, the accessibility regime, which provided a 10-year deadline for the adaptation of buildings and the progressive removal of architectural barriers, and we regret that it is almost all to be done over the last 10 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u168	You've been in the government for the last four years!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u169	It is also paradigmatic that in this House, the Assembly of the Republic, the House of All, the House of Democracy, where everyone takes place, it has been necessary to be elected a Member with a disability so that this Assembly of the Republic has adapted. This, of course, calls for us, and we must lead to serious reflection. We cannot be reactive, we must be proactive and therefore again I welcome the CDS-PP for the submission of the proposals. We can't waste any more time. So I ask the CDS: does it not consider accessibility to be a component of the greatest importance for inclusion and autonomy of people with disabilities? Finally, I would like to say that we all have a long way to go together and that is where we should engage. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u170	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u171	Mr President, I should like to congratulate Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia on the subject that brings us and, of course, to welcome what has been the struggle of people with disabilities, their families, their representative organisations in the defence of their rights, and of course this is a debate and a subject that needs to be deepened, because there is indeed a long way to go in guaranteeing the rights of people with disabilities. But, Mr President, with the intervention we have heard here, or the CDS is planning to do the opposite of what it did when it was in the government, or is seeking to clear the responsibilities it had when it was in the government for four years, with the protection of the social security folder, in which it did absolutely nothing that it announced on the proposals it intended to present. Mr President, it is important to know why during these four years the CDS and PSD have not implemented any of the proposals that we are bringing here today. [[PSD MP Sandra Pereira protests.]] The honourable Member made a citation and saw the concern of the PSD and the CDS in the way they treated the most vulnerable, the workers, the Portuguese people, in the way they cut social benefits, which have reached, in a very serious way, people with disabilities, as is the case of disability bonus, family allowance, assistance to third persons. The concern of the PSD and CDS is seen in the way they cut off in public school, with very serious consequences for children and young people, from the point of view of their inclusion, in the way they closed public social security services... Finally, this was the action of the PSD and the CDS in the government, which is contrary to the concerns we have and which we have heard here by the CDS Member, in addition to the worsening unemployment and poverty situation, which also affects people with disabilities very significantly. In fact, one of the last actions you did when you were in the government was the introduction of a reprehensible premise of being only beneficiaries under the special disability pension, patients permanently incapacitated for work, but with a clinical prediction of being in a condition of dependence or death within 3 years, something that was fortunately reverted to this legislation, but that has indeed your brand.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u172	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u173	I will finish, Mr. President. There is a long way to go to guarantee the rights of disabled people, but the steps to be taken must be ahead, and when the PSD and CDS were in government for 4 years, we went back, and much. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u174	To reply, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u175	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for the questions you asked me. I would begin by responding precisely to Mrs Diana Ferreira. Mrs Deputy, I believe you followed the same gap as the previous Members of Parliament, both the Left Block and the PS. These are interventions that focus on the past and, above all, that do not look at the present and do not care about the future. [[PCP and BE protests.]] I did not hear, for example, the Member of the concerned Communist Party and express her indignation, for example, with the tax amendments that have already been introduced by this Government, either in the case of the motor traffic tax, or within the IMI, and which have affected many people with disabilities. And this is strange for a party that is so focused on the challenge and critical assessment, that it is not bad in itself, but, above all, if it does not aim for the future, it is sterile. Now, I would like to overcome this in such a debate. I believe that the Portuguese people expect us to have the ability to look to the future and it was on this subject that they would like to hear from the Communist Party, particularly on the proposals that have already entered and which have been presented here. contrary to what happened to the package of active ageing, with the package of birth, with several proposals that were positive and that are, recognizedly, partidate and that aim only for the good of the Portuguese, in which the Communist Party, by a strategy of faction, looking to the past, refused to improve the future of many Portuguese, we have a great expectation that this does not happen this time, not for party praise, but for the sake of the CDS, but taking into account the good of the Portuguese people who are targeted by these policies. Mrs Sandra Pereira, I also thank you for your questions. Of course, we share this vision that goes beyond a spirit of guilt or party, which looks at these matters without really capable of standing beside those who suffer these problems. We must have the ability to go further, and this is done, as I said, with the presentation of proposals, with the discussion of policies and not with the usual exercise that is always done here, which is the one every time we bring proposals to say "they are talking about the past, what has been done and what has not been done". We could replicate that answer because, although things have been done, it has not been done well. But that's not what matters, what matters is what there is still to do. That is what the honourable Member has emphasized. We are entirely in agreement. He told us about the importance of accessibility and mobility, which is a matter of the greatest importance and cannot be sidetracked from the concern of policies on this matter. On this we have a set of diplomas that are extremely ambitious but then the practice of the central administration, or of the authorities... See, for example, the City Council of Lisbon, for which, speaking with various associations, we have been indicated the enormous obstacles that continue to exist in terms of accessibility and this has to be changed. Beyond party debate, beyond membership...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u176	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u177	...and the drag of wanting to be the only representatives in this area, we must be able to give answers and go to meet the Portuguese. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u178	For a political statement on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The cuts made by the PSD and the CDS in the payment of quality hours were felt by health professionals as a disregard for their work, despite their commitment to the provision of health care in the SNS. This option of the former Government demotivated the workers, disqualified and devalued the work done. This and other similar actions of the PSD/CDS government in health policy, determined an emigration wave of unprecedented health professionals and the exit of professionals with more experience, with greater qualification, which led to problems, from the outset, in the loss of response capacity in the training of health professionals. SNS opponents in successive governments, particularly in the latter, have used human resources policy as a way of destroying. The substitutions of the public bond, the end of careers, the freezing of wages are measures that lead to the demobilization and exit of professionals abroad and to the private. The unsustainable situation that was created and its impact on the functioning of the services are clearly evident in the postponement of surgeries, in the waiting times for additional diagnostic examinations, in the delay in conducting consultations and in emergency care. The appreciation of these professionals and the replacement of the payment of extraordinary work must be for all, under the penalty of generating inequalities between workers. The overwhelming majority of health professionals do extraordinary and extra work and, therefore, it makes no sense to pay each other and not to pay others. in the SNS there can be no first and second professionals, until their operation depends on everyone. The PS Government has an obligation to solve this and other labour problems, on the ground that the SNS problems are not solved and to frustrate the legitimate expectations of workers. On the initiative and with the contribution of the CFP were included in the State Budget for 2017 instruments for the resolution of this issue. What is now needed is its realisation by the government. There is no excuse for this problem not to be solved in health and all other sectors of the Public Administration, giving workers the rights that were cut by the former PSD / CDS government. The health sector in Portugal has a particularly relevant instrument — the National Health Service — that has placed our country at the highest level in world terms in responses and health indicators. Despite the attacks that the National Health Service has been subjected to, either by underfunding or by attacks on workers' rights, or by privatization of units, it has been able to maintain, in general, quality responses to the health needs of citizens. The CFP considers that, for these results, all health workers have contributed greatly. The PCP is guided by its intervention by an intransigent defense of the National Health Service, the conquest of the April Revolution and the fundamental and foundational part of the democratic regime, which it allowed. And so, the PCP defends the SNS in its original constitutional formulation, that is, a general, universal and free service. in the defense of the National Health Service, it has always taken the defense of workers, in professional valorization, wage and in its social function, in addition to improving working conditions and always stood next to the appreciation of the SNS. The difficulties that SNS is subject to are the responsibility of successive governments, but they had an in-depth deepening with the former PSD / CDS government. In parallel to the destructive and destabilizing action in the SNS, transfers of care, means, responses and support to private structures that make a business - a big business is said - have been deepened, as illustrated by the model of public-private partnerships applied to health. nowadays there are several professionals who are developing struggles to demand the appreciation of their professional activity and careers. The gigantic strike of the operational assistants or the strikes already carried out, and again marked, of the diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, nurses and the threat of medical strike show that there are many unhappy sectors and professionals available for the fight. The workers remained in struggle when the previous government applied to them wage cuts, forced them to work free of charge by increasing their weekly working time from 35 to 40 hours, cutting their quality hours and reducing their payment of extraordinary hours. In addition to the attacks of the previous PSD/CDS government, workers have legitimate expectations regarding problem resolution and fair appreciation and recognition of their professional activity. We greet the professionals in struggle. The fight is the fundamental element for the investment of policies, which is desired and which is indispensable to a better SNS. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the valorization of workers is a key element in strengthening the National Health Service. Health workers, but also the PS government know that they can count on the action and intervention of the CFP for all measures necessary for the valorization of workers, their careers and their professions. It is important not to waste any of the opportunities opened by the new correlation of forces in the Assembly of the Republic. The PCP here is for the most use of these opportunities, in favour of workers, the Public Administration and the National Health Service. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u180	Three Members have signed up to request clarification. How do you intend to respond, Mr. João Ramos?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u181	Mr President, I want to answer one by one.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u182	You have the floor, first of all, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. João Ramos, I would like to thank you for bringing the issue of health, human resources into the National Health Service, which so much resilience and professionalism have shown and, in fact, we wanted to say that we are not surprised at your speech. It is that, after a year and a half of socialist governance, of a government that you support and, being responsible for the options of a minister who was still giving answers this morning, Mr. Deputies, in his speech, systematically referred questions of the present to a previous government, who faced a situation entirely different from the one that is currently living, who faced the need to fight and get us out of bankruptcy and pay for more than EUR 3000 million. However, we find it strange that, even today, as a government that you support, that every time you are called on to assume responsibilities, you maintain a revenge attitude, an attitude in which you are unable to assume responsibilities and build answers to problems that the Portuguese face today. Let me tell you, honourable Member, that several health human resources organizations, meeting on 10 March 2017 — not in 2015 or 2014 — say that working conditions continue to worsen and that there is a systematic violation of labour law. Who are you to blame for? Is it the former government for what these organizations say today? [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr President, in fact we are concerned about what is going on in health and cannot say that the CDS did not, in due course, alert the one who would be the precipitated replacement of 35 hours, to what this replacement would involve in the bill for human resources. As you know and must have the courage to say, there are still nurses with extraordinary hours to rest,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u184	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u185	... that are not properly paid, being hired at 40 hours, there is still austerity in health. What are we waiting for, sir? We hope that the CFP will assume its responsibilities and that is what we would like to hear. Is it really going to question the government, whether you support, in terms of what is a worrying situation today in health services, or will you continue to want the best of two worlds and fail to take your position accordingly? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u186	In reply, Mr João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u187	Mr President, I thank Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto for her questions. I understand that the Member and the Parliamentary Group of the CDS did not like the CFP to remember your responsibilities in the situation at which the National Health Service arrived, but the CFP believes that it should do so because the problems that the National Health Service faces are very deep and the consequences of your policy have been serious. This situation was not only the result of the four years of your Government, since, as the honourable Member had the opportunity to hear, it was a policy adopted by successive governments but had a special deepening in the last four years when the PSD and the CDS had responsibilities. The honourable Member has really failed to say that the CFP has always turned back. We also warned in our political statement that a number of problems need to be solved by the Government, including the appreciation of professionals. Therefore, the CFP has made its contribution, warning, questioning, is what we are doing here today bringing to the political discussion the problems of the National Health Service, but we also did this morning, and the honourable Member has been there and has heard, at the hearing of the Minister of Health, where we have raised the problems relating to the National Health Service. But we have also done so in the State budget, where, with the contribution and intervention of the CFP, instruments have been created that allow the government to value workers today in the way that the PSD and CDS have not done. So what we did here was to encourage the government to use these instruments that it has at its disposal to solve these problems of the National Health Service. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u188	Mr António Sales has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u189	Mr President, Mr. João Ramos, after four years of deregulation and disregard of health professionals from 2011 to 2015, saw a conversion of human capital during 2016. To this end, we have implemented a plan for the regularization of deficiencies in the Public Administration, we have engaged in renegotiating individual employment contracts, we have resumed 35 hours, we have rejected the value of overtime - still today, Mr Minister, in the Health Committee, announced the replacement in April of 25 % of overtime and in December of the remaining 75 % for all health professionals, I repeat, for all health professionals - we have created a career review plan, an incentive to geographical mobility and incentives to pick up retirees. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we know that the road is long. But if, on the one hand, we have worked on the quantitative component, we know that we will still have to go a long way in the qualitative component, at the level of careers, at the level of integrated responsibility centres, at the level of the USF (family health units) of type B, at the level of investments. In fact, they are ways and mechanisms to motivate health professionals. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the measures already listed here today and the changes already visible with regard to the working conditions of health professionals, it becomes very clear the lowest number of strikes in general and in the health sector (less than 430 strikes in 2016 than in 2015 and the lowest number of strikes in the last 10 years ). [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u190	It is therefore appropriate to ask why this minor challenge is being challenged. Is it not reasonable for the lower cristification of professional classes to see their working conditions improved in a legitimate process of progression and claiming their rights? Oh, my God! We do not understand, therefore, that PSD and CDS do not perceive this imperative need.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u191	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u192	I'm done now, Mr. President. in a humble way, together with the parties that support the government, they also appeal to the President of the Republic so many times for a health pact. Finally, Mr. João Ramos, regarding the announced strike of doctors and nurses, knowing we, PS, that it is an inalienable right and that it is in our genetic code,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u193	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u194	... I would like to ask you if you believe in the negotiating capacity of this government, capable of bringing this process to a good port, thus avoiding a major damage to the users of the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u195	In reply, Mr João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u196	Mr President, Mr António Sales, I am grateful for the question you raised and, in meeting with what you initially provoked, I would like to tell you that the attack on the workers of the National Health Service was so profound that, I appreciate it, reverse it — restoring rights, valuing professions — it will take more than it took to make the cuts. It may take longer, but what we cannot afford is to waste this opportunity and professionals expect us to take advantage of it. It is that we, in the diagnosis of problems that are identified, will certainly agree, as with the need to restore quality hours, create careers, apply 35 hours, finally, are measures that need to be developed. Therefore, in some of these matters, the diagnosis is made, but the action must be carried out. The State budget which has been approved, and has been approved by our banks, provides, proposes and places at the Government's disposal instruments to solve these problems. So what we expect is that the Government will use these instruments which most of the House of the Republic has given it. On the other hand, I would like to say that the instruments available in the State budget to solve the problem of workers did not count on the support and favourable vote of the PSD and the CDS. I would also like to say, Mr President, about the ongoing struggles that they seem essential to us because it was the struggle of workers and trade unions that kept the pressure to solve these problems in the National Health Service in the political sphere. It is in the political sphere that a solution is required and that is why this work and this struggle that has been carried out are important, and will continue to be, to pressure that the situation be resolved, so that, I repeat, the Government uses the instruments at its disposal to be able to solve it. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u197	You have the floor, to ask for clarification, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u198	Mr President, Mr João Ramos, I begin by complimenting you on your political statement. I think it is important that we start by clarifying some misconceptions, because the honourable Member has begun his political statement that he wants to withdraw completely from the responsibility of the Government of the country. The Government is, in fact, the Socialist Party, but only exists because the Portuguese Communist Party approves the State Budget and, in this approval, is responsible for the country's governance. On the other hand, honourable Member, we agree on the quality, resilience and competence of the health professionals of the National Health Service, but I cannot understand how we are valuing this quality when the government that you support has this erratic policy in the management of these same professionals. One day we heard the Minister of Health say that he wants to increase the age from which doctors no longer have to exercise their activity in the context of emergency service the following day, by popular challenge, the Minister comes back in his position. We now see the discussion around the task force, of the famous precarious workers in health, in which it has always been said, since the first year of this government, in 2015 that would reduce the number of extraordinary hours hired to service providers. What did we check in 2016? We have verified an increase in spending on these tasks. It should be recalled that in those years of government that you criticized, soon in 2012 there was a reduction in 1 million hours of what was contracted through these service delivery companies. The task force policy that your Government is currently promoting, facilitates inconsistent teams, makes it easier for quality to be lacking at the end of the day. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u199	When we look at the 35-hour question, which actually brought here, it is essential that we pay the same amount of work. on the question of equality, we agree, but I cannot understand how the Portuguese Communist Party managed to approve a State budget in which, being this matter to itself so important, it was not able to demand that it be so, and three months later, comes here to discuss this matter. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] It is not enough to come here to make political statements and hit your chest when there are fundamental issues that need to be resolved at the right time. There can be no motivation...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u200	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u201	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, there can be no political and party motivation to substantiate essential issues for the country, such as the question of the State Budget, how to guarantee a government of the country, and then, in what is simply oral, rhetorical, come here to defend its opposite, just to stand well before the unions and the workers. So, Mr. João Ramos, what I ask you is very clear: what will the CFP, in particular, effectively do? You're gonna take a concrete action or we're gonna keep having just...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u202	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u203	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. As I was saying, the PCP will take a concrete step or we will continue, only and only, to have to watch the rhetoric of the PCP, to watch, in October or November, the blind approval of the State budget, as they did in 2016? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u204	In reply, Mr João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u205	Mr President, Mr. Ricardo Baptista Leite, I would like to thank you for the questions you have raised. The speech and speech that you are testing is a little bit of the speech that the PSD makes on this matter, wanting to put the CFP in a space in which it is silent about the problems of the National Health Service and trying to build the idea that it is not worth changing government, because then there are no solutions, it is all the same. This does not correspond to the truth, it is not all the same, because when the PSD and CDS cut wages, the PCP opposed that cut wages.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u206	What now? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u207	When PSD and CDS forced workers to work longer hours free of charge, the PCP opposed these cuts. When the PSD and CDS cut workers' rights, the PCP opposed those cuts. [[PSD protests.]] For the CFP, it was essential to make a first-hand contribution and the first step to solve the problems was to remove the government's PSD and CDS, which we have already achieved. This was the first step to solve the problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u208	And go on!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u209	The second step to solve the problem has to do with concrete measures for its resolution and, as I said, these measures exist in the State budget. They are certainly not measures that will solve everything now, with this Budget,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u210	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u211	... but they are measures that allow steps to be taken contrary to those taken by you in relation to the workers and their valorisation. Therefore, the contribution of the CFP in this area is very concrete and has already been made, within the State budget, with the inclusion of a set of instruments that enable you to reverse your policies with regard to workers. We are now in a position to demand that the Government comply with what is included in the State budget, which has been approved by the majority of Members of this House and has counted on the vote against the PSD and the CDS to solve the problems they have created. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u212	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u213	Mr President, Mr Ramos, I would like to congratulate you on the subject that brings us here and tell you that, for the Left Block, the question is very clear: whenever there is good working conditions for health professionals, there is a better National Health Service. For this reason, tomorrow, the Left Block will be with the workers and nurses of ACES Lisboa Norte ( Group of Northern Lisbon Health Centres ), who manifest themselves by hiring more people — a claim more than fair. For this reason, the Left Block also associates and supports the strike of nurses, which has already been announced, and their claims, be the replacement of the value of extraordinary hours, be the replacement of 35 hours for all workers, be the pay supplement for specialist nurses, be the hiring of more nurses, etc. Of course, no one can be against these demands, because they are, to the limit, what improves the National Health Service and what improves the provision of health care to users. But the question that I would like to leave you was this: does he still remember, for example, when the PSD and CDS-PP cut their salaries to health professionals? What happened in the meantime? They've been restored. Do you remember when PSD and CDS-PP cut the value of extraordinary time to health professionals for half? What's going on? It's being restored. This is what we have to do, but it is not enough to stay here, we must certainly go much further, and going further is not only to make the replacement of the value of extraordinary time but also to hire more people to work in health, because they are very necessary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u214	They're in!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u215	Even today, at the hearing of the Minister of Health, the Left Block recalled that in the State Budget for 2017, an article was placed, on a proposal from the Left Block, which establishes an extraordinary recruitment of nurses during the year 2017, essentially for primary health care.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u216	1600's already in!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u217	This contest hasn't opened yet...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u218	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u219	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that this competition has not yet opened, but this competition is fundamental to the National Health Service. That is why I would like to ask you, Mr President, to accompany the Left Block. Will the PCP, with the Left Block, make all the necessary strength and pressure, with the Government, for greater recruitment in the National Health Service? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u220	In reply, Mr João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u221	Mr President, Mr Moisés Ferreira, I thank you for your questions. The honourable Member raises something with which the CFP agrees and defends, that there is a close relationship between the working conditions of health workers and the enhancement of the National Health Service. And it is not by chance that anyone who wants, and has had this as an option, to attack the National Health Service has used workers, their working conditions, their rights and their valorization as an instrument of attack to the National Health Service. This is because demotivated workers, undervalued workers are the best way to devalue the National Health Service and to transfer the provision of health care from the National Health Service to a set of private structures, which have so much loved. And that is why we accompany and defend measures such as the hiring of professionals, which we propose, the appreciation of professionals in the thawing of their careers, in the value of wages, in the issues of training and research, so important for the National Health Service. It is that without workers, without valued workers, there is no National Health Service and that is why we say that all opportunities have to be taken advantage of. This is the contribution and commitment of the CFP, that of taking advantage of all the opportunities created by a new correlation of forces in the Assembly of the Republic to value and consolidate the National Health Service and to value its workers. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u222	I greet Mr. João Ramos, for he has always maintained within the given times, a rare case in this Chamber. [[PCP applause.]] For an intervention under Article 76 ( 2 ). that of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr Pedro Coimbra has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u223	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In less than a year and a half of the current government, led by the Socialist Party, we can say that the country has changed. The country has changed, changed a lot and clearly has changed for the better! [[Congrats from the PS Members.]] After four years of the PSD/CDS government, whose policies were based on the impoverishment of people, the devaluation of institutions and the abandonment of territory, was the government led by the Socialist Party that brought the country and the Portuguese a new hope, social peace and economic growth, so important that we could achieve levels of competitiveness that would allow us to grow sustainably. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was this government that eliminated the overtax of the IRS (tax on income of natural persons) ; it was this government that restored the salaries of the civil service ; it was this government that increased the minimum wage to €530 ; it was this government that updated pensions to €600 ; it was this government that reduced the moderate rates in the SNS ; it was this government that restored the 35 hours per week in the civil service ; and it was this government that restored the reference value of social income for inclusion. Finally, so many and so many relevant measures, which here are not all, on the initiative of the Government of the Socialist Party or on the legislative initiative of the left-wing parliamentary majority, which have made the country socially more fair, economically more competitive and financially balanced. This is evidence of the deficit in public accounts, which in 2016 was 2, 1 %, the best in our democracy; the unemployment rate, which successively decreased by 10, 2 % in January 2017; the growth of investment, with the forecast of a rate of 3, 8 % for this year. It lives better today in Portugal, and this happens on the street, in contact with people and companies. Above all, there is a new hope for Portugal. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Also in the district of Coimbra, electoral circle for which I was elected, the current government has demonstrated commitment and commitment to problem solving, some have been dragging themselves for decades, or in the application of direct measures aimed at improving the quality of life of people and territorial cohesion. These are examples: the de-absorption and stabilization of the banks of the Mondego River in Coimbra, in a global investment of more than 16 million euros that had long been awaited and needed; the merger of the two maternity units and the construction of a new maternity facility in Coimbra, in an investment of more than 16 million euros, awaited and ambitioned about 30 years ago by users and professionals; the decontamination and environmental re-qualification of the Southern Mondego Mines, some old uranium mines in Tabua, next to the Aguieira dam, an investment of more than 5 million euros, which was expected almost 30 years ago ;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... the intervention on the North Line, in the section between Alfarelos and Pampilhosa, which aims to modernize this line, in a global investment of over EUR 100 million; the re-qualification of the Coimbra-B ; the re-qualification of the Coimbra-B station, already in the phase of studies and to launch competition during the next year, an investment of more than EUR 7.5 million ; the re-qualification of the national road No 17, between the node of Table Table and the municipality of Oliveira de Hospital ; the re-qualty of the station of Coimbra-B ; the retraining of the station of Coimbra-B ; the reclassification of the station of Coimbra-B ; the re-B station of Coimbra de Coimbra-B ; the reclassification of Coimbrara and the North Line of the North Line.......... the intervention on the North Line, in the North Line, in the division between Al Al Al Al Al Al Al Al Al Al Al Al Al Al Alfarelololololololololololololololololololololo and Pam and Pam, which will, which will, which will, which will, which will, which will, which will, which will be in the North Line, in the North Line, in the North Line, in the North Line, in the Camp the North and Pam will, in the North Line, in the North the North Camp the North Camp the North the North Line, in the North and Pam will, which will, in the Al Al Al Al Al Al Al Al Al the North, which will, which will, the North Line, in the Al Al Al Al Al Al Al Al Al and Pamline, which will, which will, which will, which will, the North and Pam of the North of the Al Al Al Al Al and Pam of the North, which will, the Al Al Al Al Al Al Al Al Al Al and Pam and Pam the North and Pamline, which will, which will, which will, which will, which will will will, the Measures approaching the citizens of justice and the State itself, contrary to the gap created by the previous right-wing government. There are also measures such as the launch of the Revive program, where the Monastery of Santa Clara-a-Nova, in Coimbra, and the monastery of Lorvão, in Penacova, the most valuable cultural, historical and architectural heritages, whose integration into this program, with the financial incentives associated with it, allows us to clarify the hope that they can attract operators who give them a new life and a new soul. All these measures are excellent examples of fair policies, some of which have a zero or reduced financial impact, but which result in improving the quality of life of people, families, businesses, institutions and the competitiveness of the territory. Other measures, moreover, represent significant investments that, together with many others in the country outside, allow us to state that the discourse on the right that public investment is nonexistent does not pass from a fallacy. It's true that it's not all done, far from it. We must remember the need to complete the investment in the World Mobility System, in order to provide the populations with a decent means of mobility that binds Serpins to Coimbra, which includes the urban line in the city of Coimbra and which requalifies urbanly the low of Coimbra, as it is foreseen in the project. Mr. Pedro Passos Coelho, then candidate for Prime Minister, during the 2011 campaign, assured the people that if he were to lead the government, the work would start immediately. Well, in four years nothing has been done, nor the numerous studies carried out — dear, say! — allowed or encouraged its Government to apply for such investment to the Community funds. [[PSD protests.]] It was already the Government of the Socialist Party that commissioned a study at the National Civil Engineering Laboratory, whose conclusion is expected, which will allow the project to be applied to the Community funds, in order to finalise the investment and complete the project. That's how we wait! We cannot forget the need to complete the IC6, at least until Oliveira of the Hospital. This is an important and relevant investment whose impact on the competitiveness of the territory is very significant. Here too the current government has received a hand full of nothing. of the necessary and mandatory studies, it was already the current Government of the Socialist Party that has advanced with studies, which will also aim to apply for investment to the Community funds and to complete this important work. That's how we wait! We cannot forget the need to intervene and requalify the IP3, between Coimbra and Viseu, nor to forget the connection to Vila Nova de Poiares. IP3 is one of the most important and moving national roads, whose route crosses an important region, with significant population density and intense economic activity, dealing with one of the most important links to the border with Spain. Current conditions of movement are not adequate, especially at the level of road safety, being permanently concerned with human lives. By 2017, the Government announced the start of the interventions in Trouxemil / Penacova. Great and we hope that this will soon happen. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To conclude, we want a fairer Portugal! The Government of the Socialist Party is fulfilling what it has said to the citizens, respecting international commitments.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u224	He is, he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u225	We can proudly say: let us promise and fulfill!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u226	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u227	I can truly say: the current Government of the Socialist Party, led by Antonio Costa, has demonstrated a global and integrated vision for the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For this government, there are no first Portuguese, nor are there second Portuguese, there are no insoluble problems, because everyone deserves commitment and dedication to seeking a solution. I can say with rigour that, for the Government of the Socialist Party and for Prime Minister António Costa, the word given is even an honest word!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u228	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u229	And, after all, the devil, who is hiding behind the door and which the right one pushes so much that he enters, fortunately, he continues without appearing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u230	We are thus finishing the first point on our agenda. We moved on to the second point, with the general appreciation of the projects of lein.os 438 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Determines the subjection of consumer disputes of reduced economic value to the necessary arbitration, where this is chosen by the consumer, and determines the obligation to set up a lawyer in consumer shares ( PSD ), 439 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Determines the establishment within the Directorate-General for Consumer Affairs of a national consumer registration portal for telephone advertising ( PSD ) and 451 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strengthen consumer rights with regard to the consumption of food goods ( NAPs) together with draft resolutions 717 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures promoting alternative means of resolving consumer disputes ( PSD ), 718 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to train, inform and monitor consumer rights ( PSD ) and 727 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote a more effective consumer information culture ( CDS-PP ). To present the initiatives of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Joel Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u231	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, 15 March, World Consumer Rights Day, the PSD would like to note this day with a set of legislative proposals. on this date I remember John F. Kennedy, former President of the United States of America, who, on March 15, 1962, gave the famous phrase « consumers we are all » and defended the four rights of consumers: the right to security, the right to information, the right to choice and the right to be heard. In Portugal, consumer rights are enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, by the law of consumer protection, Law No 24 / 96 of 31 July : « All consumers are considered to be those who are supplied goods, services or transmitted any rights, intended for non-professional use by a person who is engaged in an economic activity aimed at obtaining benefits ». Since the rights and interests of consumers have gained constitutional dignity, many have been progressing in legislation in recent years towards the effective realization of the protection, determined by the constitutional text, of those rights and interests. It is therefore urgent to continue to defend consumers. The PSD Parliamentary Group, sensitive to all these concerns, in defence of consumers and continuing to work started in 2011, with new legislation regulating extrajudicial conflict resolution procedures, proposes two bills and two draft resolutions which begin to present briefly. in the first draft law we propose the creation of a portal managed by the State, through the Directorate-General of Consumers, with a view to ensuring real and effective protection of consumers against unsolicited advertising and commercial actions and which has as its competence the creation, maintenance and dissemination of that portal. currently, there is a panoply of lists managed by an indeterminate number of entities, to which consumers do not access, which, associated with the fact that the widespread lack of knowledge about the mechanisms of inclusion in those lists, has generated a sense of impunity in the face of violations of the right to privacy to which consumers have been subject. The second draft law determines the subjecting of consumer disputes of reduced economic value to arbitration, where this is chosen by the consumer, and the requirement of the constitution of a lawyer in the consumer court proceedings. in resolving disputes with the consumer and irrespective of the value involved, economic agents, as a rule, are advised by legal support offices, with a view to safeguarding their interests, the same does not happen to the consumer. Low economic value consumer disputes are considered to be those whose values do not exceed a quarter of the height of the courts of 1. the instance. As regards the two draft resolutions, the first recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to promote alternative means of resolving consumer disputes and the second recommends to the Government the taking of measures to train, inform, monitor and defend consumer rights. Our proposals do not stay here. We will continue to work on these issues, including those relating to health insurance, condominiums, informal knowledge of prescription, labelling, among others, and we will shortly present more proposals for consumer protection. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u232	Mr. Joel Sá, three Mrs have signed up. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you intend to respond, Mr. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u233	Mr President, I will answer the three together.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u234	All right, Mr. Deputies. So you have the floor, first of all, Mr Paulino Ascension.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u235	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD brings a set of proposals that are not just palliative, they do not tackle problems by root. You make a few small advances or even, maybe to look like something changes, to essentially keep everything in the same. Conflict resolution through arbitration is a form of privatization of justice. Consumption conflicts are largely due to the privatization of the economy. This is a paradox: the privatization of the economy produces conflicts, in order to resolve these conflicts, justice is privatized. It does not seem to me to be a good faith proposal and probably the intention will be to create more business opportunities in the area of justice, in the area of arbitration. The way to explore would be to give a more active role to consumers, so that, with some participation in the follow-up to the definition of commercial practices of companies providing goods and services, consumer representative organisations can act upstream and do not have to wait for abuse to complain or for consumers to run behind the damage. This would be a form of democracy in the economy. There is a specific case, which was recently reported, by a woman who ended her life on the exact day on which she would be dismissed from her home for not being able to pay the debt to the bank. When the GNR entered the house he found the dead person. It is not a single case, there are not many with this gravity, but there are immense situations of ruined lives and families scattered from their homes by the edge of the profit of the financial system. This set of proposals does not change anything in this reality, it does not prevent new situations from occurring at all. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u236	Mr Luís Testa has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u237	Mr President, first of all, I would like to greet Mr Joel Sá on the subject that brings us today and, obviously, consumers in our country. But enough greetings, because the content that is brought to us today is an absolute blanket of flaps. The PSD, which has over the years had erratic policies at the level of consumer rights, which has had not very reliable approaches to consumer protection, today opted to bring us a set of diplomas – bills and draft resolutions – that have nothing to do with each other, and many of them correspond to a self-criticism that Mr Joel Sá does to the government that he has supported, but at the same time praise the work of the current government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u238	He didn't read! Leia!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u239	Otherwise, let's see. Arbitrage required? That, in good rigour, is the distortion of the spirit of arbitration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u240	Don't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u241	Arbitration for being and to be a true means of alternative resolution of disputes must correspond to a basic spirit, which is its own and which is the voluntary accession of the parties. And, therefore, when the parties are assigned to forced adherence to this system, the spirit no longer corresponds to the spirit of arbitration, which is the spirit of voluntary accession of the parties, as I said. It brings us here the creation by the State of a list where consumers can unsubscribe to receive direct marketing. That is what is happening right now, but on the contrary. That is, the real goal of V. Exa is to end direct marketing... [[No, no, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u242	...and therefore refuse this medium of information through direct advertising to consumers. I conclude by saying that Mr Joel Sá, in fact, is very unattractive about reality, because the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Justice have already constituted a working group to promote the enlargement of the network... [[PSD MP Joel Sá's protests.]] ... of consumer conflict centres throughout the country, which actually corresponds to what is the essential premise of its draft resolution. But I still want to mention something that seems almost anecdotic to me. in the midst of his disturbance and the disruption of his address in this House, he forgot about an episode, which I would like to recall: it was the previous government, when the Minister of Justice was Paula Teixeira da Cruz, who promoted the extinction of the Alternative Dispute Resolution Office. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u243	Therefore, those who have dealt with arbitration, who have treated the alternative dispute resolution in this way, have everything less legitimacy to bring us here, unless the real interests to protect are others and not those of the consumer. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u244	Mr João Ramos has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u245	Mr President, Mr Joel Sá, I would like to ask you two questions to clarify the PSD's intention with regard to your proposals. The first question relates to the arbitral resolution of conflicts. Two of the four projects submitted by the PSD are on this subject and, reading the preamble of one of them, we see that a set of criticism is made of the difficulties of the arbitral resolution of conflicts, namely the lack of coverage throughout the country, the private nature or, at least, hybrid nature of this solution, the divergent charges from center to center, the absence of publicity of decisions. All of this is pointed out as problems of this system. In view of this analysis that the PSD does, what it would be expected is that the PSD will come to propose the waiver of this model of arbitral resolution of conflicts, but the PSD does the opposite, proposes the deepening of this system. It is not surprising, nor is it entirely new, what are the solutions of capitalism to its own problems is to deepen the solutions to the problems it creates. I therefore ask: does he not think that there is incongruence here regarding the analysis that makes the problems and then the proposal that he submits? The second question has to do with a matter which the PSD does not address, which is that of regulatory entities. It is known that the majority of complaints, at least those that arrive at the Assembly of the Republic and those that are the object of analysis of regulatory entities, are, of course, related to the relationship between consumers and service providers and the recurrent complaint has to do with inaction, with the inability of regulatory entities to act to solve the problems. Therefore, given that this is one of the main problems faced by consumers today, in the framework of the range of legislative initiatives presented by the PSD on this subject, this issue, concerning regulatory entities, has been completely ignored. So the question that I leave is the following: does the PSD have no proposals on this matter? Do you not understand that there are problems in this area or the solution it presents is the same as that of the arbitral resolution of conflicts, which is to deepen to solve the problems that have been created in the meantime? [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u246	To answer this set of questions, Mr Joel Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u247	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have just heard many questions on many issues, but proposals from these banks on the World Consumer Day and on the consumer in particular, because what is important is to defend consumers, is zero! Your bids, zero! A lot of rhetoric! [[PSD applause.]] With regard to the Member of the Left Block, I ask you where your project is. It speaks in little shame in defending consumers, but the Left Block does not see any proposals. Therefore, as far as the 'low shame' is concerned, you must be mistaken. You have mixed everything, mixed all the questions on this subject and you have not realized anything you want. I therefore advise you to hear the words of the Minister of Justice, who wanted to relieve the courts and deepen alternative means of dispute resolution. Mr Luís Testa, from the PS, I think you have not read our proposals, you do not know them, you have also made a great confusion, you have mixed everything. I advise you to read this document from the European Consumer Centre in Portugal, which speaks of the proposals that the Democratic Social Party has made since 2011 on this subject and of all its developments on this subject. Finally, Mr Ramos, from the CFP, I ask you: where are the proposals? I once again say: they are putting forward proposals to talk about it. We were the only party who had the courage to present concrete proposals today to mark World Consumer Day. They're few, it's true, but we've continued to...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u248	"We" who?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u249	We, the CDS and the PAN, I'm sorry. But we were, in particular, the legislative initiative. We are concerned about consumers, so we have put forward proposals, you are concerned about rhetoric. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u250	To present the bill of your party, Mr. André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u251	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not by chance that the right to consumer information is a fundamental right. Only informed people can make conscious choices, and it is our responsibility to contribute to the clarification and empowerment of citizens. For all of this, the NAP is now discussing an initiative aimed at strengthening consumer rights with regard to the consumption of food goods. The consumption of genetically modified organisms (GMOs) remains controversial. however, the NAP argues that, regardless of the discussion on danger and risks, or not, consumers have, above all, the clear right to information. in this sense, the Community directives, taking into account the precautionary principle, require that the products containing them should have entered the expression, and I quote, « This product contains genetically modified organisms». For example, animal rations must contain the phrase I quoted. What, then, is the sense of forcing the labelling of GMO-containing feed, if that information will never reach the final consumer? This "detail" is relevant because the consumer of meat, milk and eggs or other food of animal origin does not know that he is consuming a good in which GMOs are part of the food chain, and this can be a determining factor for his choice. A citizen has the right to make his or her food choices based on health, economic, environmental, social and ethical considerations. But Portuguese are prevented from this right, as regards the existence of transgenics in meat and milk. Legally, GMO information should be included at all stages of placing products on the market. Therefore, this obligation is also imposed on the labelling of products of animal origin whose food contains GMOs, only by truly realising the right of information advocated in all legal, national and Community diplomas. There is, therefore, a gap that must be filled. [[Congratulations from Mr Paulino Ascenção.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u252	There are no entries for requests for clarification to Mr André Silva, he has the floor to present the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, Mr Pedro Mota Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u253	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are marking today in this Parliament the World Consumer Rights Day. in a modern society, with a set of very specialized functions, the regulation of consumption, above all the specific protection of consumer rights as such, is an effective necessity. In societies like ours, considered consumer societies, consumers are often the weakest and most unprotected part of these trade relations. That is exactly why, for a long time, we have been talking about a set of subjects that are essential to protect that same weaker part. Materials relating, for example, to misinformation or opaque information that is attributed to consumers. Materials related to a set of unfair commercial practices, a set of sales that are abusive sales, often abusing the lack of information and preparation of consumers themselves. Matters relating to the practical inability of dispute resolution arising from the consumption itself or matters relating to the participation of the structures representing consumers in the development of legislation that effectively protects their rights. That is exactly why on March 15, 1962, in a famous speech to the Congress of the United States of America, President John F. Kennedy said we are all consumers because we all actually have a set of consumer relations that will generate, in this sense, our common protection as consumers. At the time, I was talking about four fundamental rights: the right to information, the right to consumer safety, the right to capacity and freedom of choice and the right to be heard. in this sense, we today know that we also have a new set of new consumer protections, which are very relevant, of which access to effective and practical resolution of conflicts resulting from abuse of consumer law is often one of the most relevant. That is something we also want to address here, but today, above all, we would like to focus on a very specific set of aspects. Today, fortunately, both in our constitutional framework and in our legal framework, we have a law on consumer rights. We also have many rules on consumer protection and protection within the Community. We also, fortunately, have a number of consumer defence and representation associations, which I would like to say today. And that is exactly why today it is very necessary to defend consumers in particular from concrete abuses to which they continue to be subjected. over the past year, about 700 000 Portuguese complained to Deco, which meant an increase of about 25% compared to the past years and where what led the Portuguese complaints were distance sales, often made very aggressively, were unfair commercial and competitive practices and, above all, a great difficulty in changing the marketer into services that are essential basic services, such as energy and communications. That is precisely why, in the draft resolution presented today by the CDS, we focus on matters that, for us, are very effective subjects. The first one has to do with distance sales. We know that, with the growth of electronic commerce, the size of distance sales is significantly different from the size of sales that were made a few years ago, when, above all, much was said about sales by catalogues. Today, the new dimension of electronic commerce also leads to a set of abuses and often to a total inability on the part of consumers to protect themselves from the same abuse. This is a dimension that requires monitoring of the mechanisms already provided for in the law today — and that is what we recommend to the Government. But we also talk a lot about a matter which is increasingly relevant today, which is the contracts in which a company provides not one but two, three and more services, which leads, above all, to a lot of lack of information when issuing a particular invoice. And today many consumers who have, for example, dual services, both in telecommunications and in energy, realize exactly how difficult it is to read an invoice effectively — many of them even need a manual of instructions only to define what is invoiced to each consumer. There is also a practice that has grown very much over recent times, which are door-to-door sales, often aggressively made, often done exactly in these basic and essential services, in which complaints in communications lead and also need more effective follow-up. But there are also two other subjects which, for us, are very relevant. The first has exactly to do with the matter of energy. First of all, it is essential that we achieve the definition and separation of what is energy for heating essential for day-to-day and the quality of life of many consumers than that of energy for other purposes— eventually it will make sense to study the concrete definition of different taxation, but for this to happen, it is, first and foremost, absolutely essential to make that same differentiation. Another area, for us very important, has to do with gas. We know that there is a practice in Portugal that penalises consumers of the gas in the case of natural gas consumers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u254	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u255	The price of stock gas has not come down, despite the price of raw materials in international markets. Today there is total duality in our country between the consumer of stock gas and the consumer of natural gas, which is crucial to breaking. in this sense, we want measures to be promoted so that, within a year, we can effectively approximate the price of the bottle gas of the natural gas price. Another issue, and with this end, Mr President, has to do with an abuse to which Portuguese consumers are subject today, and once again we are all consumers, which is the extraordinary taxation on fuels.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u256	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u257	I'm done now, Mr. President. This Government of the Socialist Party, with the support of the Portuguese Communist Party, the Left Block and the Greens Ecological Party, launched an extraordinary taxation within ISP (charge on oil and energy products), a tax that was supposed to be transitional and, above all, to have a compensation with the increase in the price of oil which also raises the tax revenue. This is not happening, and it is also an abuse of consumers who, in this sense, are always the most fragile part of this equation. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u258	Mrs Fatima Ramos has signed up to request clarification. Mr Pedro Mota Soares no longer has time to answer. Even so, if the honourable Member wishes to ask for clarification, she has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u259	Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mr Pedro Mota Soares, the PAN and all consumers and consumer protection associations. This is an extremely important day, a day when the PSD also wanted to mark this agenda, concerned about people and consumers. I want to tell the CDS that many of the concerns you have are also our concerns. In fact, we too are concerned about the excessive price of the stock gas and the lack of information from people and therefore we have presented a draft resolution that goes in this direction and that we feel we are even complementary to what was said by the CDS. in fact, there is a lot of legislation that protects people, but because of lack of knowledge and training, people do not know and cannot use that same information. A short time ago, the regulators were mentioned here. The PSD is also concerned about this when it suggests that more information be given by the State about the role of regulatory entities, about what they do, about the various associations, about what consumers can use to defend themselves. So, Mr Pedro Mota Soares, I want to tell you that we are in tune. And I think that people today are well defended only because the law exists, when the state does not give them the information they should give, it is wrong to think, it is "to put their head in the sand". Well, that's not what the PSD wants. PSD is next to people and wants to defend people. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u260	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u261	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we have a set of legislative initiatives with a common objective, which is to try to strengthen consumer protection mechanisms, in a reality where consumers tend to be the easy grip of the market. Of course, we all agree on the need to concentrate efforts and attention on new realities or on new contours that legal traffic is taking place. They are increasingly demanding contours, from the point of view of guaranteeing consumer rights, until companies themselves invariably seek to'return' to legal provisions, as in fact recently happened with telecommunications operators in relation to loyalty periods. But in all consumer rights, the right to information is absolutely vital, because only complete and loyal information can enable a conscious and responsible decision on the part of consumers. On the right to information, I recall a legislative initiative by The Greens, adopted in this House and which would give rise to the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 64 / 2000 of 14 June. This is the Resolution on labelling in food for human or animal consumption, produced from genetically modified organisms. By means of that Resolution, the Government was bound to ensure the requirement for detailed labelling in all food products produced from or including genetically modified organisms. Moreover, by means of this resolution, proposed by the Greens, as I said, this legal obligation has also been extended to products intended for feed. For this reason, we have some difficulty in realizing what is new in the bill today presented by the PAN. Still, there is much to be done about consumer rights, because we all remember, for example, that, about three years ago, we discussed a petition here that aimed at forcing contracts to be drawn up with minimum sizes and spacings between lines, also defined by law. It was therefore intended to give greater transparency to the contracts which citizens are formalizing, because contracts should allow a desirable, inviting, easy and objective reading, not presenting the letter in such a small size that it would lead to the fact that an important part of the contractual clauses literally passing alongside one of the Contracting Parties, usually, or always, the most unprotected part, i.e. consumers. It is therefore important to counteract these situations. And we are all aware that we need informed consumers, because it is necessary to ensure that the consumer knows what he is hiring, freely and consciously. As for the projects under discussion today, we will accompany those who, in our understanding, seek or come to strengthen consumer rights. But we have many doubts, many reservations about the involvement of arbitral courts in general and, above all, on consumer law. In our view, the involvement of arbitral courts in consumer law does not represent any contribution to strengthening consumer rights, quite the contrary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u262	Mr Hugo Pires has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u263	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As already mentioned, it was March 15, 1962 that John F. Kennedy, to date President of the United States of America,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u264	Mr. Deputy is talking about Kennedy, but not Socrates!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u265	... in a speech given at the Congress, for the first time it addressed the question of consumer rights, which is why it was instituted this day as World Consumer Rights Day. When I was 55 years old, the world changed...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u266	"The world has changed"! That's Socrates!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u267	... the forms and consumption needs have changed deeply and never, as now, were the four fundamental rights of consumption that Kennedy defended: the right to security, the right to information, the right to choice and the right to be heard. [[CDS-PP laughter.]] Beware consumers of economic agents who are masters in the art of misleading, communications, energy, transport or contractual relations with electronic platforms is a duty of this House. It is a duty now, but it is also a duty of a very close past. Although consumer protection policies have been smuggled during the PSD/CDS-PP government — and I repeat, even though they have been smuggled — there has been no such initiative in relation to consumer protection, despite this disillusionment having an apparent ideological position against the consumer, the parties on the right are always in time to change so that we can converge. So I can't stop telling the gentlemen. Members of the parliamentary right: welcome to the debate on consumer protection. [[PSD member Joel Sá's laughs.]] This debate, the debate on consumer protection, is perhaps one of the few in this legislature that can be done without the neoliberal ideological radicalism that involves us and wants to make us understand or accept the market without rules and innovation without guarantees.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u268	You don't know what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u269	In fact, we do not want to believe that the parties on our right have definitely turned into greed and business enhancers without minimum rules. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u270	On your right are BE and PCP! [[Representatives of PSD and CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u271	Today's debate refers us to a series of initiatives which Parliament must carefully examine, because there is 'a cat hidden from the tail' in the diplomas that the PSD has presented to us here today.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u272	You're misinformed!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u273	But the debate cannot be the only thing that goes away today with the commemoration day, it must be the debate of the concrete policy and the debate of the day-to-day policy. And that's what I want to talk to you about. Otherwise, we see in particular the measures implemented by this Government during this Parliament: still today, the electronic platform Online Claims Book has been presented publicly for essential public services; it is now open to 6. the phase of applications to the Fund for the Promotion of Consumer Rights; in the field of energy, the automatic allocation of the social rate of natural gas and electricity and the future creation of the logistics operator of trader change is highlighted. These measures are also planned to be implemented this year. I am talking about the training of the alternative dispute resolution network, which has an impact throughout the national territory, with a view to encouraging consumer use of affordable, simple, fast and cost-effective justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u274	Exactly. That is what our proposal is about!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u275	I am also talking about the consumer + simple information measure, which integrates the SIMPLEX programme and consists in the development of an electronic platform to facilitate the economic operators' compliance with consumer information obligations. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on this World Day of Consumer Defense, it is never too much to remember, especially at a time when the climate of encryption in the benches of the parliamentary right has increased,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u276	Crisp? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u277	... that we, as Members, also serve the Portuguese, we, as Members, must ensure good parliamentary debate, the best legislative process and the quality of our democracy. That is the only way we will be doing good service to the Republic and, consequently, giving good service to consumers, that is to say to our voters, to the Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u278	For an intervention on behalf of the Left Block, Mr Paulino Ascension has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u279	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the CDS for the draft resolution that brings us here, because it recognises the importance of consumption for economic growth, which is something new and which contradicts what has been the usual speech of recent years, since the time it was in government. Does this mean a strategic inflection on the part of the CDS? I also welcome the recognition of the fragility of consumers when delivered to the fate of the market, which is reflected in the explanatory statement of the draft resolution. But, contrary to what is at stake, the problem of this fragility of consumers does not arise from the modernisation of society or the increasing specialization of functions, namely privatization, liberalisation and market deregulation. This has led to the fragile situation in which consumers find themselves. In particular, some sectors of activity, such as electricity, communications, gas, which are essential services, are mentioned precisely those sectors whose privatization has been accelerated or terminated in recent years. Therefore, the CDS is concerned, the PSD too, but this concern sounds so much like hypocrisy, because it does not attack the root of the problems, but essentially aims to maintain the situation and even take it further, privatizing other sectors, such as education, health, water. It's all business.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u280	And what proposal did you put forward? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u281	The solutions presented are only palliatives that mitigate the effects but do not act on the causes, which disguise the fever but do not treat the infection. And the root cause of these problems is the true essence of the capitalist economic system, which, with its focus on profit, allows everything. It is worth everything in the name of profit: the exploitation of people as goods and the exploitation of consumers, of course, with very little economic power than that of large companies. The capitalist system resembles a religion, with priests and missionaries entering into the house with their doctrine, in the news, in advertising, misleading by definition, and, even though reality systematically denies propagandized wonders, faith remains unbreakable. Good management is something for those who know, for entrepreneurs, these supermen, extraordinary people in vision and ambition. These are the ones who know about good governance of companies and the state, and democracy is becoming increasingly reduced to a formal without content, because then the choices made through elections have to conform to the will of the markets, these supreme beings. Fraud has always been and continues to be intrinsic to the capitalist production system. This was clearly evident in the bank, in the high-risk products with which customers were lubricated, in the aldrabics with gas emissions in the car sector, or, for example, in the manufacture of bread in the 19th century, when it was frequent to use white limestone powder instead of flour, because it was cheaper and heavier and had no effect on taste. A relevant and significant fact is that the first cooperative that was created, the Pioneers of Rochdale, was designated as « the honest ones of Rochdale », precisely as a counterpoint to the fraud that was typical of the capitalist system then dominant, and the first cooperative bakery was referred to as « Verídica» to mark its difference in relation to fraud. To defend consumers is to recognise them full citizenship and not only apply palliatives without concrete effect, it is to recognize them the right and power to participate in choices that affect them in their everyday lives in a democratic manner — in all decisions affecting them, including decisions of an economic nature. We therefore advocate an economic system without wolves or lambs that overcomes the supply/consumer dichotomy and in which people are seen as citizens of full rights and can participate in decisions that concern them either through the State or through the self-organization of production at the local level, as it makes more sense. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u282	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u283	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In an approach to consumer rights, the assessment of the existing regulatory system as well as of the system for resolving consumer conflicts is unavoidable. Consumer complaints, including electronic communications, are recurrent and insistently come to the Assembly of the Republic and the Parliamentary Group of the CFP. These consumer complaints address essentially problems with changing monthly values or other contractual conditions without consumer knowledge. The reports of ANACOM ( National Communications Authority ), in particular 2015, refer to the main complaints and confirm that the main reasons for consumer complaints relate to periods of loyalty, suspension of services and change of contractual conditions without notice. Another recurrent complaint from consumers is the ineffectiveness of the use of the regulatory entity, in particular ANACOM, since this remedy is more justified for the behaviour of service providers than for the effective resolution of the problems. Part of the current problems and the pressures, injustices and injustices that consumers are targeted are related to the existing regulatory system. We have seen the performance of an important political role on the part of regulatory entities, in deresponsibility of governments and their policies by decisions which are scandalously confronted with the interests of Portuguese and the national economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u284	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u285	The PCP will go further in its analysis and frame this whole regulatory system and regulatory entities. Thus, it states that in the process of neoliberal reconfiguration of the State, regulatory entities appear as a second government, not accountable to voters and by whose decisions the Assembly of the Republic cannot demand responsibilities from the Government, in an apparent institutional independence and technical neutrality, at the expense of the Constitution. Moreover, the discourse around the balance of public accounts is increasingly recurring, the internalization of competences that only the State should be able to make a contribution in this regard. For this reason, the CFP has argued that the efficiency gains of the Public Administration and the State apparatus with effective decentralization, with motivated workers, with the purpose of spending on outsourcing services and not duplication of structures, as is the case with the generality of regulatory entities, which must be reintroduced from the central administration, thus saving many million euros.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u286	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u287	The options of successive governments have been to improve the formalisms of these entities in order to increase mystification around them and also their capture by economic powers. This whole process limits the capacity for political scrutiny. When asked by Members about problems in the field of monitoring regulatory entities, governments respond to the independence of such entities. With this framework, the action of regulatory entities is out of control. in this context, also the creation of arbitral courts represents a movement of dejudicialization in various areas of our social life. by referring citizens to an arbitral tribunal, in practice, the access to justice of the state and the courts is being prevented.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u288	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u289	The CFP has always considered it wrong to move forward without properly equating the social repercussions with the costs of arbitral justice, which may have very significant implications. Nor, for example, was it considered that aspects related to the impossibility of trade unionism of much of the functioning of arbitral justice, in terms of both processes of choice of arbitrators and others.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u290	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u291	The CFP believes that it is necessary to take the reverse course and that direct, clear and transparent responsibility for regulating economic activities must belong to the State and governments that manage it, since they are, yes, voted upon by the voters. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u292	Mr António Costa Silva, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, speaks for the last time in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u293	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD wanted to mark this day the World Consumer Rights Day. With its proposals, the PSD aims to defend people. The PSD aims, in practice, to defend the common citizen, often defenseless consumers and sometimes the weakest link in business processes, especially in relation to large companies. We have come up with concrete proposals to be voted on by this Parliament, with the following emblematic objectives and measures: first, to create a single list for telephone advertising; secondly, to use arbitration centres for the resolution of consumer disputes. The two bills and the two draft resolutions we present, all of them, aim not only to make consumer protection clearer, but also to make conflict resolution more effective. Currently, telemarketing companies have each of their lists, the consumer does not know the lists they are part of or how to get out of them. contrary to what they tried to do here, the intention is not to end telemarketing,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u294	That was a rest at dinner time!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u295	...but, yes, regulate your exaggerations. We want to give the consumer freedom to decide whether or not he wants to be disturbed. We want the common citizen to be able and have the opportunity to make a free choice. Isn't that what everyone wants? I ask this Parliament. Our proposal is to create a single national list, for which the consumer, at any time, can enter or leave. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what part do you not agree on this matter? We don't understand! Entities promoting telephone advertising would be required to consult that list. The second legislative initiative aims, in particular, at forwarding consumer disputes of low economic value to arbitration or mediation, where that is the choice of the consumer—as an alternative to court courts, more expensive and more durable—and at no cost to the consumer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u296	That's too little!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u297	The PSD also presented two draft resolutions: one, which recommends the promotion and dissemination of consumer protection, and another, which recommends the valorization of arbitration centres, so that they are better known and so that the fees are identical throughout the country. We don't understand what you don't understand. The legislation protects the consumer, but the consumer, by mere ignorance, does not benefit from it. The PSD essentially recommends the development of institutional campaigns to promote consumer interests and rights, as well as the inclusion in school curricula and activities of subjects related to this area. To weigh the possibility of free for the consumer whenever the consumer resorts to alternative procedures to the courts to resolve their disputes is another of the recommendations made by the PSD. We don't understand why they don't want to.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u298	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u299	I'm done now, Mr. President. Someone here said: "Welcome to the debate on this matter". And the Socialist Party said: “It was just what was missing! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” in previous governance, the proposals we made—also referred to in the document, which we presented to you, of the European Consumer Centre— were as follows: Voluntary Arbitration Law—December 2014 ; Mediation Law—April 2013 ; Transposition of the RAL Directive ( Alternative Consumer Dispute Resolution) — September 2015. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, if you pay attention to the PSD proposals, you still have time to approve them in conscience. With these bills and with these draft resolutions, we're going to see, basically, who's on the consumer's side. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-15.u300	With this intervention, I shall end the second and last item of today's agenda. Before we close the work, I announce that the next plenary meeting will be held tomorrow, Thursday, beginning at 15 p.m., and will have as a working order the discussion, in general, of Bill No 62 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — establishes the framework for the transfer of competences to local authorities and to intermunicipal entities, implementing the principles of subsidiarity, administrative decentralization and local power autonomy, and of the projects of lein. 383 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — decentralization of competences for municipalities and intermunicipal entities and in the fregeges in education, health, social action, territorial management, forest management, coastal management, veterinary medicine, animal health and food security ( PSD ), 442 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Framework law laying down the conditions and requirements for the transfer of duties and powers to local authorities ( PCP ) and 449 / XIII ( 2 ). a ) — decentralization of competences for municipalities and intermunicipal entities in the field of education, health, social action, civil protection, beaches, forest management, animal health and food security, heritage and housing ( CDS-PP ), together with draft resolutions 628 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake the reorganization and provision of service services of the Public Administration ( PSD ), 629 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government continue the process of achieving decentralization in the field of health, education and culture through the conclusion of inter-administrative contracts ( PSD ), 630 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish shared service centres and value added at the level of intermunicipal entities ( PSD ), 722 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Decentralisation of competences for local authorities ( BE) and 725 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government pursue the reformulation of the system of transfer of competences to local authorities and to inter-municipal entities ( NAPs ). The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 30 minutes.]]
