ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 10 hours and 8 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. Mrs. Members, pursuant to Article 73. the Rules of Procedure, we start the agenda today with a thematic debate required by the PS Parliamentary Group, on energy, also taking place in conjunction with the evaluation of draft resolutions Nos 771 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government assess the first 10 years of coexistence of regulated tariffs and tariffs liberalized in the electric sector and promote additional measures to protect the energy consumer ( PS ), 772 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government strategic lines of action on development and investment plans in the energy sector ( PS ) and 773/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government give priority to investment in renewable energy without guaranteed tariffs in regions with more potential and lack of investment ( PS ). With regard to the last draft resolution, the text was replaced by the author. To begin the debate, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr Carlos Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members: In a short time of government, it is possible to assess in a very concrete way the consequences of an energy policy that closes two basic ideas, competitiveness and stability. That is, we need cheaper energy and a more transparent legal and regulatory framework. in fact, we find a country with the highest prices in the European Union in natural gas and the most expensive in electricity and fuel. This situation not only compromises Portugal's competitiveness, as it poses serious problems of social cohesion. On the other hand, when we arrived at the government, the sector regulation showed serious weaknesses. Today, we have already strengthened this area, integrating in ERSE (Energy Services Regulatory Entity ) the fuels, biofuels and bottled gas, allowing for the first time the whole energy sector to be regulated by this regulator. Mr President, the discussion around the energy sector is almost always very hermetic and complex and the main actors cultivate a certain labyrinthic language. The Government of the Socialist Party has therefore sought to show rigour and transparency in order to give the agents confidence and thus achieve the essential results for the well-being of the Portuguese. Thus, the great challenge of this government has always been to balance the need to correct some of the excesses introduced in the past, without jeopardizing the functioning of the system and the inevitable bets on strengthening renewable energy. in this regard we should point out, with particular pride, that for the first time it was possible to license solar power stations not financed by the consumer, an example at European level, which happened in 2016, and proof that it is possible to do more with less resources. But the consistency of the interventions did not remain here. The Government has acted in the correction of double support for wind and solar power plants. in practice, this initiative saved EUR 140 million, which will not affect tariffs, by preventing simultaneous support for the construction and installation of power plants and subsidies for energy production. Another issue that charges the tariff is that of the power-guarantee mechanisms. These are estimated at more than EUR 30 million per year. With the Government of the Socialist Party this value will fall significantly, with the introduction of the market operation through the auction mechanism. at the same time, the "interruptibility" regime was changed to make it more transparent and functional. in the last five years this instrument has cost more than 500 million euros and has never been used or tested. Mr President, with these and other interventions in the sector it was possible to do what had not happened 10 years ago in electricity: to ensure that the price increase to be made did not exceed the inflation expected for 2017. The increase of 1, 2 % indicated by ERSE compared with an average increase of 3, 3 % of the years of the PSD/CDS-PP government, always above inflation. On the other hand, we multiplied by 10 the beneficiaries of the social electricity tariff. When the PS reached the Government only 80 000 consumers benefited from this mechanism created in 2010. Today almost 800 000 are the beneficiaries of the social tariff. With this effort, the Government is guaranteeing average annual savings of more than 100 € to the most deprived families, a total of more than 80 million euros. The effort to make access to energy cheaper also had consequences on the price of natural gas. Moreover, when the Government took possession of natural gas in Portugal was the most expensive gas in Europe. It is therefore with great satisfaction that we find that the reductions made by the Government of the Socialist Party have been the lowest ever in energy prices in Portugal. At the same time, the social rate for natural gas was also strengthened, which increased from 13 000 beneficiaries to 35 000, with this government. Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, much has already been done, and in a very short time, but I think we all agree that there is much to do in terms of energy policy. in this framework, the PS suggests several interventions, which we consider add consistency to the government strategy. First, we think of the most basic common sense, after 10 years of liberalisation of the electricity market, to be able to evaluate the results of coexistence between liberalised market tariffs and the regulated market. We are aware that ERSE follows this development, but it is absolutely essential to go further. A fine analysis of the situation and an enlightening balance is needed in order to make decisions about the future and to look at the additional measures that will further protect the consumer in the fundamental objective of reducing the energy price. on a second line of intervention, the PS considers that, in a resource park country, an investment plan of EUR 2000 million for the energy sector requires a very careful analysis, based on economic assumptions, but also on political assumptions, in order to ensure that only investments which are unequivocally relevant to the pursuit of the country's objectives and strategies, whether in the context of economic growth, whether in social cohesion or in the regular and efficient functioning of the system, are implemented. Finally, the PS also believes that the Government should be committed to promoting investments in regions with the greatest potential for renewable energy production and, at the same time, in regions with the most low levels of investment. Finally, recalling that this government's strategy for the energy sector must always have a triple objective: more energy, cheaper energy and more sustainable energy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to announce to the House that it is in the gallery for the diplomatic corps to the President of the Republic of Chile, Michelle Bachelet, for those who ask for a warm greeting. [[General applause, standing, registering the absence of the NAP.]] Let's continue our work. To request clarification from Mr Carlos Pereira, you have the floor of Mrs Fatima Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are pleased when we see the Socialist Party Members continuing the previous government's strategic lines. [[PS laughter.]] When they give continuity to good strategies, as in the case of energy, we approve; when they reverse correct measures, such as the student evaluation system, we refuse. The PSD/CDS-PP government has implemented a serious reform in the energy sector: it has cut energy costs; it has shown that it was possible to invest in renewables and save; it has faced interests; it has cut 4 billion in excessive incomes and has won international prizes. The draft resolutions under consideration reflect the conclusions of the Energy Conference, held in this Assembly of the Republic, and also include some guidance from ERSE. We agree with points such as: the need for investment weighting; the management of rigor; the cost/benefit analysis; the bet on renewable energies, especially in photovoltaic energy, among others, and monitoring of tariff developments. The PSD/CDS-PP government did, as I said, cuts in excessive incomes, but they still exist, as has been said at the Conference. It is good that the current government continues to reduce excessive income. It is important that the government does not repeat mistakes made in the past by investing in renewables without attracting national companies. It is very bad when companies, which make investments, import equipment. It is important, in fact, to invest in the national production sector, as wind farms were installed using practically only imported equipment. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the question remains: what is the reason why the Socialist Party presents these draft resolutions? Dammit? Make demagogy? Back in the case of the regulated market? To anticipate the Bloc and the CFP, which at the Conference they announced would present initiatives? If everyone supports the government, would it not be more logical to meet and present joint initiatives? The gentlemen. Are PS Members afraid that the government will not comply with the recommendations and guidelines of ERSE? Are there delays in realising investments, particularly in renewable energy? Why are you guys doing this? Members, with the support of the other parties supporting the Government, have not recommended that the Government reduce the burden of taxes on fuels?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u5	We have these concerns!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u6	We know that he has given incentives for some heavy cars and border posts. What about the others?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u7	Those you guys increased? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u8	They paid more than EUR 3000 million to the motorists. What about the PERES Programme ( Special Programme for the Reduction of State Debts ) and the revaluation of assets? To receive in the present, you harm the future, harm the new generations. As you know that only EDP ( Energies of Portugal ) has had an advantage of EUR 20 million, an advantage of EUR 174 million, with the revaluation of assets. You reassess today to harm all generations in the future; to receive them today harm those who come later. What is the government doing about Galp and take or pay contracts for gas supply? [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] ERSE has already alerted the government and what has the government done in this regard? It was a way of reducing consumer tariffs. When they continue the good strategies, as I have already said, we approve. These margins, which would be obtained through the Galp, would reduce prices to consumers. What about the exorbitant price of bottle gas? Yesterday, following the report by the Portuguese Consumer Protection Association, which warned about the lack of competition and the rigidity of demand, you announced some measures. It remains to be known when the excessive margins will end. When does bottle gas stop costing almost twice as much of the natural gas? When are people compensated for the value corresponding to the gas that remains in the bottle when they return it? How is the process of interconnection with Europe, which would allow us to export much of the renewable energy we produce? They have promised, in your electoral programme, environmentally friendly public transport systems. We're at the end of March. I ask you: how is the Lousã Line? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u9	To reply, Mr. Carlos Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u10	Mr President, Mrs Fatima Ramos, thank you very much for the intervention, not necessarily for the question. [[PSD protests.]] I must say that I have some difficulty in being able to answer your speech, given that it is not really a question, but I will still try to make some comments, which I think are, in spite of all, relevant to what I have said, ending with a question. Since you have not done anything to me, I will make you one, and perhaps you can answer a question that somehow disturbs the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. I would like to start by reminding you, since you talked about the matter, the question of fuels and the tax burden of fuels. I have with me a chart that effectively reflects the evolution of the price impact on the gas oil supply capacity, which allows me to make an assessment that I think is important, and with which you will agree. The graph basically states that, in March 2013, it was possible to supply with 20 € about 14 liters of diesel, in July 2014 the supply did not reach 15 liters, in 2015, the average was 15, 5 liters, and in 2016, with the Government of the Socialist Party, with 20 € it is possible to supply about 20 liters!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u11	It's a landslide!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u12	This is factual, Mrs. Member. With the Government of the Socialist Party, with 20 € you can get more gas oil than with all your governments and with all the measures that you have taken in the past. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let me finish my answer with some peace and quiet. The last note I wanted to mention has to do with the sector's debt-related matter. When we left the government we left a debt of EUR 2000 million. When we arrived at the government the debt was EUR 5000 million! O honourable Member, this is factual!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u13	With your business? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u14	Therefore, between 2011 and 2015, debt increased by EUR 3000 million, Mrs Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u15	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u16	I'm done now, Mr. President. That was an answer that the honourable Member should give, and she did not. Mr President, do I think you can count on the Socialist Party's global time?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u17	You can count on global time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u18	Mr President, in conclusion, I would like to do what I have promised, which is to ask the honourable Member a question, since we have any doubt about a news item that came out in the Newspaper. By the way, I believe that, as you have supported your Government over the past four years, you may be able to answer, because there are still no answers. I wonder whether there is a commitment from your Government that requires an increase in tariffs of more than EUR 74 million to support a solar power plant, and whether this support has been promised with a counterpart of EUR 5 million in Community funds, if so, answers who has taken this commitment, since you have not asked any questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u19	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u20	I wonder when it was assumed and whether this commitment was referred to in the accounts of the tariff debt announced by the previous government to ERSE. This is very important to know, above all, what you have done by placing the country in the state you are in, as you mentioned. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u21	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to be absolutely clear, the intervention times have been exceeded, but this excess will naturally be discounted in the overall time for each parliamentary group. We will enter the stage of the debate. You have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State for Energy, Jorge Seguro Sanches.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u22	Mr President, I begin by congratulating the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Before giving some explanations and giving account of the government's work in the energy sector at this first stage of the legislature, I would like to welcome the initiative of the Assembly of the Republic not only this week to have held a parliamentary conference on energy where precisely the issues of investments to be made on the network and which are supported, as we all know, by consumers, but also by this debate in which consumer-relevant issues are discussed. I would like to say, essentially, that at the Government's option, consumers are the reason for being in the energy market, and that is why policies should be focused on them. Without prejudice to the fact that, at the later stage of the debate, I would like to say that today is a very important day for the protection of consumers in the energy sector, because in the Diário da República the decree-law that creates the Logistics Operator of Trader Change is published in the Diário da República. It is something that most Portuguese do not know, but I can say that for more than 10 years it is a political ambition, systematically placed in all government programmes, and that has not been implemented. It is with this government and it is now that this phase begins to give more rights and more information to energy consumers. The Trader’s Logistics Operator, the « energy saving », will allow consumers not only to be informed about which marketers that give them the best conditions either in gas or electricity, as will allow them to make the change of marketer. This makes all the difference and means giving consumers all the information so that they can decide, choose the cheapest, which produces renewable energy, which does everything according to their economic and environmental options. But I also want to tell you this week: a study conducted by the Competition Authority was known on the basis of a request from the Government made in May last year, which has to do with the operation of the bottle gas market in our country. We understand that there is a long time to change and therefore today the National Council for Fuels ( CNC ) is meeting, at the second request of the Government, to give an opinion on what the Government wants to do in this sector, in particular, among several measures, the declaration of public interest of the gas filling terminals of the bottles. This can make a lot of difference. We have one of the most expensive gas prices, especially if we compare them with Spain, and we understand that there is indeed much to do. Another measure which was launched by the previous government and which had legal problems will be implemented correctly by this government. This measure has to do with the option of consumers being able to freely exchange their gas bottle without having to pay any compensation to the system. I refer to another measure, also launched by the previous Government, which was never possible to carry out and which had to do with the obligation of each marketer, in relation to each consumption, to weigh the gas bill that was delivered in exchange for the new one. This will be done in general in these filling centres, which will be declared of public interest, to precisely establish a national average and to make effective gains for consumers. But very important and also very relevant is the measure which was approved in the Assembly of the Republic, on a proposal from the Government, in the sense that the Regulatory Authority for Energy Services has to be regulated over the bottle gas sector. It makes all the sense to have it, but it didn't exist. That's why, when you guys are. Members speak on 'excessive margins', of course we must bear in mind that the study has now been handed over to the government so long after, but so many years have passed without the political power to pay attention to this market, in particular by asking the regulator to intervene on this situation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u23	Mr Secretary of State, the Bureau has registered four entries for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u24	I will answer two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u25	You have the floor for a first request for clarification, Mr Pedro Mota Soares, from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, Mr Secretary of State, without prejudice to the intervention by my banking colleague Mr Hélder Amaral, President of the Committee on Economic Affairs, will then make a number of proposals from the CDS on fuel taxation and a study, for example, on the separation between energy for heating of dwellings and other energy, which is already being made, in fact, in northern Europe and which will eventually allow a study of differentiated taxation, I would like to ask you a question on a matter which has caused a huge criticism of the CDS and which concerns the reassessment of assets within IRC. In 2016, the Government of which Mr the Secretary is part created a system in which companies—and those who benefit are large companies and, especially, large energy companies—can reassess their assets, pay a lower rate on these assets and thus save millions of euros in future taxes. This system, in fact, has led several people to consider it a sort of PPP on the contrary, i.e., it now pays a lower rate to then save many million in the future. EDP's accounts are already known and with this system EDP has achieved a tax bond of EUR 174 million and Renewable EDP has achieved a tax bond of more than EUR 10 million only with this measure.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u27	Truth! It's a lot of money!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u28	We are talking only in the case of a company, of a total of EUR 184 million. What is more serious, Mr Secretary of State, is that this tax bill does not benefit consumers, because your bill will not go down. This tax bill goes directly to the company's results, to the managers' premiums, it's not direct, it's not a tax bill for consumers that they pay a very high bill every day. I remember that only in EDP are EUR 184 million! But it is worse in the energy sector than in the other sectors, because the government, on its own initiative, has chosen to exempt this revaluation of assets from the payment of the extraordinary contribution on the energy sector. Normally, if there is a revaluation of assets, this should count for the purpose of extraordinary contribution on the energy sector. In fact, there will be a decrease in the invoice for the consumer himself, since it will serve even to compensate for the tariff deficit. in this sense, the tax bill does not benefit consumers at all. I would like to ask you two questions on this subject, Mr Secretary of State: how much has the government saved the energy sector with the reassessment of assets?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u29	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u30	We know that in the case of EDP it is EUR 184 million. But I would like to ask you what is the case with Galp Energy, REN, Endesa. in all, how much was the government tax bill? But I would also like to ask you another question, Mr Secretary of State: with this measure to exempt the re-evaluation of the EESC's payment (extraordinary contribution to the energy sector), when did these companies no longer pay in such a way that they could help consumers? Turning to a second topic, Mr Secretary of State, today the DECO reported that the land occupancy rate which is in accordance with Article 85. that of the State Budget Act, should not be reflected in consumer invoices, is effectively being it. I can show you an invoice from EDP's natural gas month in which it is found that the land occupancy rate is being paid by consumers. I would like to ask you directly what the government is doing in the case of this complaint. We are talking about a number of companies, EDP is one of them, but there are others on which this same complaint is also made. Question: What is the Government doing in this particular case? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u31	To request clarification, Mr Jorge Costa, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u32	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the Left Block and the Government, with the Socialist Party, had a joint work on a series of measures which, in the last State budget, and already in the previous one, were implemented. I wanted to ask you two questions about two of these measures. First of all, I would like to know how far the social rate of electricity and gas is covered today, knowing that we started in the previous period of government less than 100 000 beneficiaries? Secondly, since it is known that yesterday the first auction of power guarantee, already under the new regime, which we also discussed in our working group and which was approved in the last State budget, what savings could be made for consumers that could already happen this year on the basis of the application of this new regime? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u33	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Secretary of State for Energy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u34	Mr President, I am grateful for the questions put by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. I would like to say, on the issue of asset revaluation, that there will be no negative effect on consumers, rather, this has always been ensured with the Energy Services Regulatory Authority. I would also like to tell you that there has been a work initiated by the Government that you have been involved in that, unfortunately, it has never been completed and that it has precisely had to do with the public knowledge of the take or pay contracts. With regard to these contracts, the previous Government felt that its knowledge was necessary to protect consumers, there was never a conclusion to this work. This government did what was, it seems to me, of course and only regret that it was done so late: to have asked and involved the regulator for these contracts to be known. This allowed savings at the price of natural gas that will be reflected in the lives of Portuguese. I therefore believe that these issues should be seen, not as the previous government has tried to do only in tax logic, but above all in the logic of the proper functioning of the market and consumer protection. With regard to the issue which you raised about the EESC, a tax which your Government has created, I would like to say that it was also with this government that, for the first time, money was given to the abatement of tariff debt. It was precisely now and it was worth not doing so, because it was indeed important for the system to have a greater balance, namely that the tariff debt, recently mentioned, of some 5000 million, found by this government, could be lower, with obvious gains so that the price of electricity could be lower. With regard to you, Mr Jorge Costa, I would like to say that the Government is following up on this issue with ERSE, in particular because there are deadlines, which have to do with the power of the authorities and businesses, which must be met. The State budget itself, as well as the budget law decree establish a timetable and, of course, the State budget law is to be fulfilled and the government will ensure that. Mr Jorge Costa, I would also like to thank you for your questions and tell you, on the social tariff, that there has obviously been an evolution in the measures which have been implemented by Parliament and then with the implementation by the Government. last year, when we started functions, there were about 120 000 people, between the electricity and natural gas sector, who were entitled to social tariffs. Today, more than 820 000 families are entitled to more than 33 % of the invoice discount. What happened? The previous government said that this was not a government issue but a business with consumers. But the government exists precisely to defend consumers and that is what it did by creating automation between the Tax Authority, social security and data communication to companies. It was effectively a government issue, because it was resolved on behalf of the public interest. Mr President, on the issue of the power guarantee for the first time, the administrative allowance to electricity-producing companies was made by auction. The gains, published yesterday by ERSE, are evident: we managed to reduce not only the auction value, as the companies themselves bid below. It will certainly not be the most perfect process of all, but it has taken a very important step, because, Mr President, what was planned to pay for power guarantee, I believe that by 2030 it was more than EUR 500 million and will thus be able to make a substantial reduction over the next few years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u35	To make a request for clarification, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. — (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President-in-Office of the Council and Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Therefore, the Greens do not conceive of a debate on energy where energy efficiency is not talked about, and so far in the debate, there has been no talk of energy efficiency, energy saving. There is a good part of the objectives to be pursued in terms of energy policy that have to go through just that savings. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, as mentioned in the last State budget, The Greens have put forward a number of proposals to promote collective transport, because collective mobility is an efficient way of saving energy, more than electric mobility — listen well to what I am telling you, Secretary of State. For this reason, the priority of The Greens has been even collective mobility and, in this sense, we have put forward proposals, which have been approved, to implement the Sub23 Pass, in order to encourage young people in our country to use collective transport, so that, in the future, if the transport network is quality, young people do not feel the need to reverse their mobility for individual transport. But of course, for this it is essential not only to lower the cost of the pass, but also to create a good network of collective transport. So also in the State budget, we set a foothold so that, at the level of the IRS, the VAT of the social pass could be deducted as a whole, just to encourage families to use collective transport. We certainly need to take more action. Of course these are not enough, but the Greens will continue to work in this direction. Mr Secretary of State, the Government did not accept a proposal which the Greens made in the State Budget, related to the housing sector, domestic, and I would like to hear it about whether or not these measures could be useful in terms of energy efficiency. When we want to encourage citizens to do certain works — for example, the installation of double windows — to be able to save energy in their homes, I would like to know whether or not there is an advantage in which our tax regime also takes into account a possibility of encouraging families in this regard. The most efficient equipment, from an energy point of view, is much more expensive. So how do we encourage people? If, in fact, there is an environmental objective to be pursued, which is the efficiency of the equipment — and since Mr State Secretary cares so much about consumers, and well, how do we then offer them a much more expensive product? How do we make these materials compatible? I would like to know whether, in the next State budget, the Government will be available to further detail these issues with the Greens, we will pursue more objectives for the benefit of consumers and, at the same time, for the benefit of the environment, because these matters are not incompatible, as is clear. There is all the compatibility between the benefit to the consumer and the benefit to sustainability and environmental issues. Finally, I would like to know how the Government is continuing to implement the National Plan of Action for Energy Efficiency (PNAEE). [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u37	To make a request for clarification, Mr.António Topa, of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u38	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State for Energy, Decree-Law No 344 - B / 82 of 1 September, affected municipalities, on the continent, the distribution of electricity in low voltage, and this public service activity may be exercised under direct or indirect exploitation. On this subject, the Government has recently submitted Bill No. 29 / XIII, which approves the rules concerning the granting by the municipalities of the operation of low voltage electricity networks in the territory of the continent. It points out to the Government that tender procedures for new concessions will be carried out in 2019. A few days ago, a media agency reported that the Municipality of Matosinhos would move forward with a court action against EDP because it considered that there was a breach of the energy concession contract concluded with the company. The Authority considers that the investment in public lighting has not been completed, increasing the debt to the municipality to a value of almost EUR 2, 3 million. In addition, they complain that no annual minimum investment corresponding to the value contracted over a certain amount of income has been made and that the EDP has been questioned in various ways without any of the means so far used has been effective in making the payment. The energy supplier is accused of having never given "the elements necessary for the analysis and monitoring of the implementation of its business plans or investment options. (...) EDP has never reported to the Municipality on the plan of public works or on its effective implementation’. The contract for distribution and concession of low voltage electricity in that municipality is 20 years and will end in 2021. In the view that such a situation would not be possible, since under legal terms EDP presents investment plans approved by the municipalities, what the Municipality of Matosinhos contradicts, such plans that are from the knowledge of DGEG ( Directorate-General for Energy and Geology ) and ERSE, the truth is that the news confirms the possible existence of defaults, in the perspective of the Municipal House. In view of this news, two situations arise: either the House is working on a mistake, being the dealership to meet, or the dealership has failed to comply with the agreement. in accordance with the basis of the concessions of the low voltage electricity distribution network, the concessionaire shall be obliged to design and develop investment projects, including its execution costs on the ground; the obligation of the concessionaire to provide to the DGEG and ERSE the information provided for in the law and regulations and shall be subject to audits of those entities; the concessionaire shall cease to grant over the period of time, the grantor shall pay to the concessionaire compensation corresponding to the accounting value of the goods affected by it acquired with reference to the last approved balance sheet, as well as the charges and charges relating to contracts for the acquisition of goods of its approved infrastructures. On the other hand, municipal concessions are close to extinction, over the course of their deadline, so the Government is working on the procedures for the implementation of new concessions. In the light of the news about the Municipality of Matosinhos, and in order to broaden the knowledge about the forthcoming concessions to be made, it is not important for the Government to provide for the implementation of a programme of actions and studies, covering the national territory, in which it inventoryes and evaluates whether the values considered in the EDP investment projects and whether their costs are consistent with market values; which accounting values of the goods affected by the concessions, as well as the burdens and charges to be settled by the municipalities at the end of the current concessions and which can strongly condition the freedom to contract new concessions in a free competition climate and whether all investments approved in investment plans have been implemented. [[Congratulations from the PSD and CDS-PP Member Pedro Mota Soares.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u39	For a final request for clarification, Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries of the CFP wanted to put two very concrete issues related to energy billing, which weighs heavily on the Portuguese, highlighting from the outset what occurs in the supply gas and electricity. The shop gas is what 75% of Portuguese people use in their homes, including the most disadvantaged populations, the poorest Portuguese people who do not have access to regulated natural gas tariffs and have a brutal price-exorbiting gas penalty situation, which, at the large distribution level, has profit margins that were identified by 27 %. This brutally penalizes consumers, but it is also crushing the micro, small and medium-sized marketing entrepreneurs, with the enormous pressure oil companies are exerting on these small traders. This reality has been identified for a long time and has already had a response in this State budget, also at the initiative of the CFP. I recall the article in the State budget, which was proposed by the CFP, was approved and indicates in particular that from the evaluation of the current market for gas marketed in bottle gas the measures necessary to reduce the price of bottle gas are adopted, adapting its regime to the needs of consumers. The Secretary of State, in his speech, has already indicated some measures due, in fact, to the conclusions of a study by the Competition Authority. He referred to the issue of opening terminals which are restrictedly controlled by large distributors and wholesalers, which is a step forward, but which, in our view, is far from responding to the underlying problem, because the underlying problem is the lack of control over the prices that consumers have to pay. We recall that as early as 2011, a work by the Directorate-General for Energy and Geology was proposed on the possibility of a maximum price model for LPG by applying the Spanish calculation formula to Portugal. We are not inventing something unpublished in Europe; we are talking about a reality that already exists in Spain and Portugal. That is why the price difference between what is practised beyond the border or on national territory is overwhelming, with obvious damage to the populations.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u41	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u42	Finally, Mr President and Mr Secretary of State, I would like to raise a question relating to the electricity tariff, in particular the dogma of liberalisation, in which the liberalised tariffs and their obligation, decreed by the previous Government in 2011 appear to be indisputable. The CFP cannot fail to raise the following question: the freedom that consumers should have to return to the regulated market, where the advantages that are now announced in relation to savings in tariffs are placed in order to return savings to consumers at the regulatory level with businesses in the sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u43	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u44	In other words, savings that can be made are on the regulated market and people are virtually forced to leave the regulated market for the liberalised market. Is there freedom or no freedom for people to choose to stay in the regulated market? That is the proposal of the CFP and that is the point we want to leave here. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u45	To answer these three requests for clarification, Mr. Secretary of State for Energy, Jorge Seguro Sanches.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u46	Mr President, I am grateful for the questions that have been put to me. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, it is clear that when we defend consumers we are defending sustainability. It could not be otherwise and when we talk about consumers we are certainly talking about sustainability. There are two sustainabilitys that make all the sense when discussing this issue: environmental sustainability, which is important and decisive for the future, and also financial sustainability, so that the charges do not mean the conditioning of the future. These have been two concerns of the government. Obviously, we are always available at Parliament to discuss all the energy efficiency measures, but I would like to share with you the position that the Portuguese Government has taken in the debate at European Union level on the Clean Energy package. We understand that the targets that are defined, including energy efficiency, should not be guiding, but binding targets, with which we should all commit ourselves because they have a very relevant condition when we speak in countries and companies that are competitive and compete with each other. Therefore, this objective will be reflected in this way. Mr António Topa, on the issues you have raised, I would like to say that the Government has presented, precisely, in the Assembly of the Republic, a bill that has to do with the launch of low-voltage energy distribution competitions. I know that the issue is in committee to be approved, we have followed this issue with great expectation, and I want to say to you that the low-voltage concession contracts in our country are made between companies and municipalities. I believe that the issues you have raised are very important, but they must also be framed from the point of view of the regulator itself — the ERSE — because it is the one that accompanies precisely the two contracts between the municipalities and the companies. Mr Bruno Dias, I would like to welcome your concerns, which are, in fact, exposed to a draft resolution by the Socialist Party precisely on the issue which is being debated today and which has to do with regulated tariffs and the liberalized market. in the State budget, by proposal, of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, the extension of regulated tariffs was approved until the end of 2020. It makes all the sense. And it makes every sense not only from the point of view of the principles that have to do with consumer protection but also even for what ERSE tells us. ERSE tells us that approaching the expiry date of the transitional tariffs is approaching, and it should be borne in mind that, before this initiative, this question was put at the end of this year, it is, in some situations, presented as a distorted selling argument, which favours unfair commercial practices, resulting in the detriment of affected consumers and the perception of the market by the latter. One of the essential reasons of the Energy Trader Logistics Operator, the Power Savings, is precisely that consumers are more protected in this type of information. One of the problems we have in the energy sector — and this is of course — is that energy issues are not visible to most consumers. Therefore, there must be someone — the State must have this responsibility and the Power Savings is what it wants — that is very uncompromising of what the energy sector messages are so that consumers, having more information, can choose. On the question of gas supply, I think that, in the answers I gave a short time ago, the objectives we are drawing will certainly have a positive result. But I also want to say that, alongside us in Spain, where prices are substantially lower, are referred to in the report by the Competition Authority which may result in compensation to companies. And the state, the government will do everything to ensure that everything is done in an absolutely safe way, from a legal point of view, so that there are no surprises at the moment. But the main objective is, given what is clear to us, that is, that the market is not working in the best way, we are acting politically — and we are doing so — so that the market can work in a more correct way. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u47	Mr Jorge Costa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u48	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State for Energy, Mrs. Members : I greet the Socialist Party for its schedule that allows to make this point of the situation about the country's energy policy, after a year and a half of the Socialist Party's government. There are two emergencies in this field that must be answered: environmental and social. But it is unquestionable that we are now far ahead of the environment, because of the penetration of renewable energy, rather than in response to the social issue. We have a socially cruel policy, revealed in the data of energy poverty. We, with Cyprus and Malta, are European records of excessive mortality under the cold of winter. One third of the citizens, 50% of the poorest, cannot have the house properly heated in the cold season. And why? Because we have the most expensive electricity and gas in Europe. in the peak of the economic crisis, in 2013 we were the European country with more energy cuts due to lack of payment, above Greece. Privatization of the sector and the Memorandum of Troika, with the increase of VAT in electricity, cost a lot of life and a lot of health in Portugal. The Left Block is proud to have contributed to the beginning of a response to this cruel reality. Access to the social rate of electricity, now with more than 800 000 beneficiary families, marked the change in the political cycle. This intervention continued in the working group, consisting of the bloc with the Socialist Party and the Government, to reduce the energy costs of families. That is why — we have learned today — the final effective cost of the power guarantee could be reduced from EUR 13 million this year, according to the previous scheme, to EUR 5, EUR 6 million, i.e. a saving of more than 56 %. It was also in the fight against fraud and the reduction of the cut-off subsidy paid to large industry, in the strengthening of ERSE means for auditing the final revisibility of CMECs (costs for maintaining the contractual balance), or in the transition from regulation of gas and fuel to ERSE, with a view to reducing the price of the stock market gas, which we will closely monitor in the coming months. The end of subsidized tariffs for new licences for producer plants is also welcomed. But the Left Block has identified, and has publicly submitted a number of new subsidies, authorized by the previous Government, in its last months of mandate. as a whole, these commitments account for more than EUR 200 million in consumer charges over 15 to 20 years. It is therefore necessary, in the current picture, the complete scrutiny of these promises and their reversal. And if it is essential to prevent the installation of a new energy system profitability, that government commitment is not enough for itself. The old rent continues to be installed: 85 % of the energy produced in Portugal benefits from income or administrative subsidies. The Government has responded to the Block that income from the past is today untouchable, that these stratospheric remunerations are a matter of respect for contractual stability. But, Mr. Secretary of State, families freeze and the economy chokes under energy costs. And it's not just the Block that says it. in its recent economic report on Portugal, the OECD is taxing: « in the energy sector, a series of reforms improved regulation and eliminated the possibility of remuneration above market prices but only for new operators. (...) Stronger action to reduce remuneration schemes inherited from the past — through the renegotiation of these previous contracts and the acceleration of the timetable for withdrawing guaranteed price schemes — could result in more competitive energy prices'. It is the OECD that says this: it is necessary to reopen contracts and cut in energy revenues guaranteed to large electricity. [[Congratulations from BE.]] in the 1990s, to enhance the privatization of EDP, the government secured two to three decades of risk-free business. Later, on behalf of the « free competition », the end of these contracts was anticipated, but the payment of huge subsidies to electricity by 2024 was established. Thus the liberalized market was born. Now, the weight of these subsidies, the famous CMECs, has represented about one third of EDP's profits before taxes. These are 14 % remuneration rates per year, at the most ruinous level of PPPs (public-private partnerships). In 2017, these revenues will reach EUR 300 million in consumer invoices. As if it weren't enough, the renewables reproduced these old vices. If renewable producers in Portugal were to practise prices in Spain, relief in consumer invoices would be EUR 500 million per year. You need to play where it hurts. What can enable you to free resources for energy efficiency and to lower the bill is just that. That is what can enable us to support the economy and employment and give some relief to the victims of energy poverty. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: I will finish this speech by referring to the bill delivered yesterday by the Left Block for the replacement of public control over the overall planning and technical management of the electrical system, sovereignty and security functions granted today to the REN. The President of the REN has already hastened to respond very diligently, throwing the debate into the field of the threat of blackouts and future supply cuts, if this proposal from the Left Block was applied. Let's focus on the matter. The perversity of the privatization of the REN is evidenced immediately in the planning phase of the expansion and modernization of the network. The successive lead, by the regulator, of all investment plans submitted by the private operator always had the same reason: excessive plans, spending above the development needs and network security. And for what? Only to maximize the remuneration of the dealer, defined by a rate whose base increases to each new investment. Whoever makes the plan wins with the investment. And for this reason, the working group, between the Left Block, the Socialist Party and the Government, proposed that these plans should always be debated and voted on in Parliament, as has now happened. But in addition to the risk of spending planning, the privatization of these strategic functions poses serious risks of lack of transparency and conflict of interest. Until the privatisation in 2012, the independence of the REN as an operator of the system was formally safeguarded by legal limits to ownership: no shareholder could hold more than 10 % of the share capital of the REN, a limitation which would fall to 5 % in the case of entities in the electric sector. Now in 2012, already with the open privatisation process, this legal protection of the independence of the REN was eliminated. Portugal has become an isolated case, alongside England, with the transport network 100 % privatized. But in Portugal, with a unique feature : the private REN is under the control of the same Chinese State which also controls the largest electrical production company ( the EDP Production ), which also controls the monopoly of distribution ( the EDP Distribution ) and which also controls the largest electricity marketer ( the commercial EDP ). It is a conflict of interest without any parallel at European level. This makes the functions of the so-called "Global Technical Management of the System" increasingly critical, currently granted to the REN. These functions include the management of the ‘office’ — the operational centre which, in real time, determines which production plants provide the energy to be consumed and in which quantities. But it also includes decisive opinions, in particular on subsidies and system services with a high turnover weight. With its draft law, the Left Block proposes that the assets of the network planning and the Global Technical Management of the System be separated from the current concession and that they be integrated, as permitted by European law, into an independent system operator of a public nature, while the operation of the high voltage transport network remains granted to the REN. I shall finish by saying that the recovery of public control over EDP and REN is a condition for the development of the Portuguese economy. We know that it will not be achieved in this political relationship of forces, but this cannot prevent minimum guarantees in defence of the public interest and the reduction of energy costs on the economy and families. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u49	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The situation that the country continues to face is an unsustainable damage to the population, to the productive sectors and to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, the result of the disastrous policy led to the energy sector over the years and in particular by the former PSD/CDS Government. They increased the tax burden on energy, left the sector walking in an oligopoly and watched impatience and serene at the scandalous prices with which the economic groups increased millionaire profits at the cost of the sacrifices of the people and the country. And the framework resulting from these privatization, liberalisation, over-protection options for economic groups and the delivery of the sector to multinationals is clearly seen with this number: EUR 6500 million in dividends distributed to EDP shareholders since 2006. The money delivered to large economic groups, only in EDP, contrasts violently with the absolutely scandalous cuts that were made at the social level and in support of small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u51	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u52	What we have been watching is a situation in which, for consumers, everything represented overload and penalizing measures and, for large economic groups, everything meant benefits, facilities and advantages. What, more recently, we also had to contrast with these millionaire numbers than EDP and other economic groups in the sector present are more penalizing measures for workers, namely the recent announcement of the release of surveillance of dams and other equipment at the energy sector level, with EDP concentrating services and replacing men with electronic surveillance systems, refusing redundant systems and solutions such as good safety practices would justify and recommend.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u53	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u54	Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : On development plans and investment in energy networks, we cannot do this discussion by putting 'from legs to air'. There seems to be an indisputable rule: investments in networks are paid in consumer bills—and soon the conversation is over! It goes from there, the option is or penalize the consumer, or cut into investment. It can't be! The Assembly of the Republic, also because of the amendments introduced in this State budget, will debate precisely the strategic options around the development and investment plans on the networks for electricity and natural gas. What we have to consider is that energy bill is already unbearable for populations and productive sectors and that the evil of this country is no more investment, it is less investment. In other words, in this area, the energy sector is critical to the development of the country, in addition to the obvious issue of maintenance, renewal and development of the networks themselves and the quality of service, with the requirements that must be placed. The problem is the level of remuneration rates that are applied in these processes, which are genuine incomes which, too, are being guaranteed to the economic groups of the sector. The problem is this policy, which maintains the profits and dividends of these groups. The problem is this aberration of having privatized the sector and having placed strategic elements, critical for development and for national sovereignty and security itself, subordinated to the logic of private profit and the shareholders behind these companies,... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u55	...arvored, in fact, to a status as a national authority, with strategic options that are discussed and considered at the political level, through the proposal presented by companies. This is an aberration, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is absurd, that is enormous, and that is why we have to debate in concrete terms the measures necessary to remedy this truly unacceptable situation. The CFP presents a draft resolution for us to proceed, at national level and here in the Assembly of the Republic, with the intervention of the Government, to the study and analysis of these investment plans, so that these over-costs related to investment in the networks and resulting from it, stop weighing on the energy bill of consumers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u56	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u57	If it is a cost, if it is an investment, it must be assumed as such by the companies. On the other hand, our draft resolution aims to ensure that the National Energy Network ( National Energy Network ), critical aspect of our national energy network, is enshrined in public management and public control, from which it should never have left.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u58	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u59	I will finish, Mr. President. This discussion will certainly continue. It is important that the projects go down to the Commission, where also the CFP projects will be discussed, as a contribution to this process of reflection and decision-making at national level. We would like to announce that we have submitted a request so that the Competition Authority, which yesterday took account, in the social communication, of the study you have conducted on the gas supply, may come to the Assembly of the Republic to forward the conclusions you have reached. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u60	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Hélder Amaral.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The CDS wants to say that it is fully available for, in committee or in such debates, to contribute positively so that an important sector for the national economy and for the lives of people can be as transparent as possible and that there can be a balance between gains and energy sustainability, gains in use of renewable energy sources and, of course, gains in terms of import and export, that is, our commercial balance. We are perfectly available to study and approve many of the matters that are being discussed here, but we also hope that some of our proposals will be taken into account. It seems clear to us that there is a critical factor, that of the development and investment plans that have been presented to us, because they represent fixed costs that directly weigh on consumers' bills. Of course, we can be as romantic as the Portuguese Communist Party and think that the investment must be, all of it, public, but what my colleague Pedro Mota Soares just proved is that you (the occupation rate of the sub-soil) which was supposedly supported by the electro-producer sector ends up weighing the consumer's bill. So we need to find mechanisms so that this does not happen.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u62	But who decided to do so?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u63	I will now explain to you who created the excessive income, who tripled the ICEG(costs of general economic interest),...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u64	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u65	We didn't go!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u66	... which were the governments and who supported that government at that time, which is so that there is no doubt as to where the blame is. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] The Secretary of State has announced, and well, it seems reasonable to us, a strong bet on solar energy. It seems to me that the sun is more consensual. The REN itself has an investment of 49 million for gas and 9 million for electricity. And, with regard to this REN investment, we still need to realize how we make a bet on solar megawatts commitments and then how they connect to the network. Whose responsibility is it to make this network to take full advantage of solar energy? There is a public interest in investment that does not depend on the company but on policies. So we will follow very closely also the tax bills, which, supposedly, do not exist, but, in practice, in the case of EDP, there are assurances that they exist and, in the case of Galp, we are waiting to know what will happen to this huge tax bill. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I still don't understand this thing about « tariffs and regulated market do not end, but they are postponed», because then we have the Power Savings, which came to the bottom of what the government seems to want, which is the liberalized market. I have to understand exactly where the PS wants to stay and where the government ultimately wants to set its policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u67	Now...!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u68	So I would like to ask whether or not we are going to have — this is something we have brought here many times and we want to continue to bring — what is an unfair tax and has a huge impact on people's lives and on the national economy, which is called ISP, which is imposed on oil products. Why? Because we argue that it should be uniformed, either for gas, or for electricity, or even for fuels. Therefore, we would like to know whether or not the government is available to study the uniformization of this tax for all sectors of energy, or even to end the increase in this tax, which was introduced in 2016 — what we call "a huge increase in taxes". It is not entirely true what the Left Block says, linking some energy crises to the difficulty of some families, I would like to say, agree, that, in fact, there is a problem that the European package well identifies, which is that we have different prices for heating and consumption. And we're even talking about territorial cohesion policies, we're talking about justice, we're talking about protecting some sectors that actually have an increased cost of heating. in the European Union there are several countries to adopt this measure and we want to work on it, we want to make this look a little more fair, more balanced and also protect territorial cohesion. We therefore want to know whether or not the Socialist Party and the Government have room for balance in committee. on our part, we have no problem with that. I therefore conclude, obviously, by saying that we are waiting to see whether or not there will be, on the part of the regulator, since it assumes new responsibilities, the fulfilment of the function of regulator or if we continue to fight and give again, leaving, on the limit, everything at the same time. Finally, Mr Secretary of State, I also want to know whether or not there will be a reduction in income — I will later specify which of them — because that is what this is about here. It was not worth the gentlemen to have introduced a set of incomes, CMEC, CAE(energy acquisition contract) and CIEG, and to fight the system. in practice, I want to understand when, in what circumstances and in what amounts you will reduce excessive incomes, which continue to be excessive, in the electro-producer sector. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u69	Mr Hugo Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u70	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The issue of energy is strategic for the economic, financial and environmental sustainability of our country. The energy sector is often of a complex perception for citizens, leaving behind technical decisions that can affect consumers decisively, in particular their income available at the end of the month. There is the public perception that the cost of energy is high and that the behaviour of the energy market is all the less perfect, particularly after the privatisations carried out by the previous Government. With the debate of the last State budget, the Assembly of the Republic gained powers in the area of energy in the area of investment control, and these documents were sent to Parliament, after public consultation and opinion of the regulatory entity. Parliament's centrality in investment decisions means more transparency and genuine scrutiny, in particular with regard to ensuring adequate remuneration and the principles of territorial cohesion. The cost of investment in the interior is always higher than in the metropolitan areas, but everyone deserves the same quality of service. Portugal is constantly referred to as a European example in the use of natural resources, such as the sun, rivers and wind, but also in the potential new borders that come from the use of marine resources. Portugal is an example: we said 'no' to nuclear and continue to limit imports and decarbonise the economy — the fight against climate change, sustainability and compliance with the Paris Agreement so obliges. But if the bet on renewable energies makes us an example worldwide, it does not remove our responsibility for the absence of increased costs for the Portuguese, the result of that bet, through the tariff. Today it is possible to find solutions that guarantee the economic viability of investments without the need to guarantee tariffs to promoters, unlike the historic moment when the path of renewables began. Energy in Portugal continues to have an excessive weight on the costs of families and businesses, but this year there has already been a fall in the natural gas rate at home of 20 %, and a lower increase in electricity since market liberalisation, and for the first time below the inflation rate. For there to be no doubt, it was with PSD governments that CMECs and EACs were created, which cost EUR 400 million per year, with fully armoured contracts.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u71	He's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u72	in the last year, at the price level, it was possible to act on the weaker sectors of our society through the social tariff, which today reaches about 800 000 families. in the case of electricity, these families may benefit from a 33 % discount when, at the end of the previous government, the number of beneficiaries was only at home of 120 000. The responsibility for these most vulnerable families has not received support is clear. in the case of the electricity market, it is important to refer to the extension of the deadline for the extinction of the regulated market by 2020 as a way to protect consumers, as well as the introduction in the State budget of a logistics market operator for the change of marketer, which was called « Power savings ». With its 10 years of operation, it is important to know the failures of the liberalised market, with a clear analysis of the results. The reason for our draft resolution on this matter is to defend consumers. At the level of the regulatory framework, there were also profound changes this year. in the 2017 Budget, the stock gas, fuels and biofuels moved to the sphere of the Energy Services Regulatory Entity. in the case of bottle gas, which still serves around 75 % of the population today, there are no objective reasons for not having a price drop by 20 %, as was the case with natural gas, taking into account the effects that this will cause and with the aggravating of this fuel serving the most fragile and needy consumers. The doubts about these markets are many, as is clear from the study requested by the Government to the Competition Authority, and it is not acceptable to discriminate against the price on this product. With regard to fuels, we believe that there are economies of scale that can and should be used in a market where prices continue to be high, with legitimate doubts about the functioning of the sector market. Measures such as professional gas oil, already approved in this Legislation, go on the right and correct way to protect companies, but there is still much to do in this sector. The electricity tariff deficit is at home of EUR 5000 million, which is a problem, and it is necessary to ensure that it is balanced, a task which the Government has embraced through the creation of a working group. The regulator presents the date of 2025 as an objective and financial sustainability is the way to protect the new generations. Many other challenges will have to be achieved in the energy sector in the future. The Iberian Peninsula cannot continue to be an island of energy and the bet on interconnections with Europe and Morocco is strategic for the country. The way of government in the sector is the right one, as the European Commission has recently pointed out, which many like to talk about other matters, and the Portuguese Parliament can only underline that. Many are the challenges of the sector's future. They can count on us in the search for the best solutions, putting challenges such as energy efficiency at the heart of the future of public policies in the sector. More efficiency is more available yield and environmental sustainability and we will continue that path. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u73	Mr António Costa Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: News of the day — Deco accuses EDP Commercial, Galp, Goldenergy and Lisbon of charging at least EUR 10 million to natural gas customers for the occupation rate of the subsoil, which was taken over by companies, an extremely serious matter we expected to have already been treated, but who pays is the consumer, for lack of action. We announce that the PSD will call the regulator, the ERSE, to Parliament as a matter of urgency to clarify this issue. The request will still be delivered today. Today, the marks of not only the PS Government but also of all the parties that make up the coalition that supports this government solution — the Socialist Party, the CFP, the Left Block and the Green Party are very clear. Now, let's see: the brand of socialist governance is old, it comes from the time of Eng.o Socrates and the famous concessions in the area of renewable energy. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u75	The country has paid and continues to pay the astronomical amounts to respect the fabulous contracts that you have made, contracts established in your governance time, a sad period of our history of recent politics, which you want to whiten out. The brand of the current PS Government, with the support of the left, is not famous either. This government will have as a mark the realization of the biggest tax collection of history, extract this tax hidden in an indirect tax on petroleum products, hidden in the prices of gas and gasoline that Portuguese have to pay daily. Your brand won't be a watermark, which you barely notice, it'll be an oil brand, well-winned in the Portuguese pockets.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u76	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u77	It will be a stain on the left, with which they commit themselves to periodically reviewing the price of fuels, but they do not, do not do so, and do not inhibit themselves from misleading the Portuguese. The third mark is that of the contradictions of management — they are partners on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays and opponents in the other days. Yesterday, at the point of an indexary vote of the draft laws on the amendment of the environmental impact assessment scheme, where the area of oil exploration and exploitation was the centre of attention, the PS voted against all the proposals of The Greens and the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u78	You don't know what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u79	After all, what kind of coalition is this? After all, what are these agreements? Aren't you guys dealing with these issues at your clandestine and secret meetings? Oh, my God! Get organized, please! Get organized! We are talking about the work done by the previous government, we must remember. This is the example of the bet on renewable energies, the weight of which increased in electricity from 45 % in 2011 to 62 % in 2014 ; the introduction of the energy self-consumption regime; the cut of EUR 4 billion in excess income in the energy sector;...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u80	Come on!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u81	... the generalisation of low-cost fuels; the extension of the social electricity tariff; the dynamisation of electric mobility through incentives for green taxation and the liberalisation of the charging network; the application of an extraordinary contribution to the energy sector; the strengthening of European energy interconnections; negotiations and reforms and more reforms. The current government, in these 14 months already completed, what have you done, after all? It has led to electricity mobility, reducing incentives for green taxation, and has been absolutely passive and inactive in strengthening energy interconnections at European Union level. The current government has put the wager on renewable energy. After the excellent negotiation by the former Government with the European Commission and the EIB ( the European Investment Bank ), the Government closed these processes and stopped the bet on energy efficiency. This government did the will of EDP and Endesa, did not take any new cut-off initiative, additional, in energy revenues and increased the tax burden in 2016, as I have already mentioned. The Minister of Economy even asked the carriers not to put fuel in Portugal, to put it in Spain. The only visible measure, which is of continuity, is the social tariff. In fact, they have simplified, they are giving continuity—and well! — a measure of the former Government. When they don't come back, they do well! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal has a serious energy problem, a high price which is very negatively reflected in the burdens of families and businesses and in the competitiveness of the economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u82	What are you talking about? Study more!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u83	This reality is surely the result of many factors: a heavy tax burden, high energy price, excessive incomes and wrong investment options and decisions. We are faced with relevant challenges: to continue the efforts made by the former Government of the balance and financial sustainability of the energy sector, absorbing the accumulated tariffs and not generating new over-costs for families and new deficits; to enhance the enhancement of national resources skills, placing on clean energy and the creation of trans-European interconnections; to ensure that investment decisions, both public and private, in the energy sector are critical; and to end, to strengthen transparency and to continue to strengthen competition in the energy sector. This is what we hope will happen. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u84	I note that Mr. Carlos Pereira is registered for clarification. It happens that the PSD no longer has time to answer. I therefore ask Mr Carlos Pereira whether the request for clarification remains, which will not be answered at least at this stage...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u85	PS can give the PSD one minute for the answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u86	... unless it refers to the closing phase of the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u87	I shall also make the request for clarification, if possible, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u88	As Mr Pereira understands, and you have that right, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u89	Mr President, I really believe that the PSD can have an opportunity to answer the questions, especially the doubts the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will put and will do so for a second time when the debate is closed because it has time for that. The first note I want to leave is to stress the concern that the PSD reveals with the stability of the parliamentary majority that this government has in the House. Too bad! It gives you the opportunity to see you constantly concerned about the supposed instability that does not exist, and that reflects everything that happens in the PSD at this time. Mr António Costa Silva, speaking of a fact contrary to reality is a lie. And what Mr Amaral has been doing here, as Mr Hélder Amaral has already done, is talking about the colossal increase in taxes, the increase in tax burden, which, in addition to being a huge disembarkation — I stress — on the part of the PSD and the CDS, which have made the biggest increase in the tax burden in Portugal, is obviously a lie. This is because you know that the tax burden with the Socialist Party Government has decreased. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] That costs you, it's true! But it has decreased and the Portuguese population is aware of this, effectively. The second note is the question which I would like to ask you again, Mr President, but above all to the PSD: can anyone in the PSD or the CDS explain whether or not there has been a commitment with the previous government of EUR 74 million to support a solar power plant, which has been promised with a counterpart of EUR 5 million? In other words, consumers pay 74 million and there is a counterpart of 5 million Community funds. Is there a compromise or not? I wonder why we don't know! The honourable Member spoke of marks, of the marks of the Socialist Party... this is a mark of your party. What did you guys do with this? What happened to this? Who pays for this and what commitment has there been in this matter?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u91	You have to explain this very clearly. Finally, to finish, they talked here about CAEs and CMECs. Now, there is an article by Eng. Mira Amaral, which I think everyone knows — and it is obviously not a figure of the Socialist Party — where he says at a certain point that he created the energy acquisition contracts, known by CAE, and then in 2004 that the Barroso Government started the pseudoliberalization of the electrical system and created the CMECs. Mr Deputy, in fact, who created the EACs and the CMECs, of which you speak so much now, was responsible for the PSD rather than the Socialist Party. Make it very clear! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u92	Mr António Cardoso of the Socialist Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I begin by congratulating 6. the Commission — Parliamentary Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works — for the excellent day last 27 on the subject under discussion, energy. As such, this debate is appropriate with the scope of the projects under discussion on the subjects dealt with at that conference, which therefore reflected this concern. Those who had the opportunity to attend the days could better perceive the importance of energy in our lives and the interdependence that must exist between the economy, ecology and energy. The three projects cover the past, the present and the future and, as such, the measures to support the installation of any equipment, which is proven to guarantee savings of energy consumption, in particular in lighting and driving force, must deserve greater attention in terms of energy efficiency. Another incentive to be considered relates to the strengthening of support measures to improve the coatings of the residential park, wall and cashier coverings. Therefore, all investment made in the residential park will have its effects on the local economy and if these incentives are not always considered, the projects presented can guarantee at least VAT coverage will already be an important component in support of energy efficiency. To conclude, the projects we are currently discussing can be expressed in a triangle, in which we have the economy in one vertex, ecology in the other and energy in the other. Therefore, this way of representing the sustainability of the economy linked to energy and ecology will have its sustainability if both grow proportionally. Energy efficiency is the variable that can contribute here to the balance of this triangle. We leave this reflection, which is important in terms of the future, because the use of energy needs natural resources and the use of natural resources has to be done in a balanced way.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u94	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u95	I shall conclude, Mr President. Therefore, only through energy efficiency is that we can make proper use of natural resources. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u96	At this stage of the debate, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State for Energy, Jorge Seguro Sanches.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are myths that try to create on issues that have to do with the lives of the Portuguese and I didn't want it to stay in the shadow, nor on the Portuguese who hear us, an idea that sometimes tries to pass from that there was a reduction of costs of the electrical system in the last legislature, when the PSD and the CDS were in the government. That was not the case, precisely the opposite. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is the former Secretary of State of Energy, the PSD Government / CDS, who says that the energy income file was a disaster. Who says it is a law, it is the refusal of the gentlemen when the PS initially tried to cut the incomes of cogeneration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u98	Mr. Secretary of State, your time is up. I would like to thank you for finishing your intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u99	I will finish, Mr. President. Those who say so are the Portuguese consumers, who have spent a period of payment of renewables from three to four years to five or seven years, by means of a legislative amendment made by you and which makes it clear today that we will be able to pay only the debt that they left us, of 5000 million, in 2025. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u100	We are now entering the stage of the closure of the debate. You have the floor for this purpose, on behalf of the Greens, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: I begin by saying that I believe that this debate has been extremely important, as I think it is always important to debate these subjects that tell a lot about the real life of the Portuguese and the country's economic situation and even its strategic situation, as it is obvious. Mr António Cardoso, the issue of energy efficiency is so important that it cannot be confined to speeches, it must move on to the practical plan. And moving to the practical plan means that the government has to have a strategy to encourage society, both at the business level and at the level of consumers and citizens in particular, so that energy efficiency is, in fact, a reality at a pace compatible with the objectives and challenges we have at present, with regard to the sustainability that we need to achieve. In fact, there are challenges that are being posed today. We have the challenge of climate change, which calls us to decarbonisation and release in relation not only to fossil fuels in particular but also to hydrocarbons in general. Therefore, for CO2 emissions, we are faced with global biodiversity conservation challenges, which we cannot destroy, for example, the pretext of renewable energy. If one of the objectives the Greens want to win here is that of energy efficiency, the second is the bet on renewable energy. But when we talk about renewable energy, we can't just use paragon in speech, we have to go to practical cases. And for practical cases, the Greens need to say, in this debate, that it is not indifferent to the size of the renewable energy production project, it is not indifferent to the source of production, nor is it indifferent to the location. What's this to say, sir? That, for example, the National Barrage Programme was a gross error on the part of the Government of the Socialist Party at the time, which wanted to impose it on Portugal. And the previous government didn't retreat. If the current government has withdrawn a little bit, it is because the Greens have imposed it, in particular, in the Joint Position we have signed. But he didn't retreat enough. And the construction of dams such as that of Tua was a robust mistake, either in terms of the destruction of biodiversity, either at the level of the contribution to coastal erosion—we are always investing so many million on the coast and then we make projects of this nature that will end our coastline— either through the destruction of fertile soils, and we need soils for our productive activity. But we have to combine all these things. What did this government do? Come give up some dams—and good! — but comes to maintain the construction of the three dams of the Upper Thame. The Greens want to say here regularly that we consider this to be a gross mistake. We need to think about these matters not in an isolated way, but in a conjugated way. We have enough dams in the country, we can boost the production of these dams, we can use them as complementary to wind energy, especially through your pumping equipment. Therefore, we have enough potential for production, in this case, water, but what we are doing is destroying the potential of some part of the country, especially at the level of biodiversity and other materials I have already talked about, and insisting on building dams that represent a tiny part of national electroproduction. in this regard, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, once again there is the Greens' warning: we must learn from the mistakes of the past, we must not continue to make the same mistakes and the Portuguese and the country would benefit much more if there was a failure to build, in particular, these dams of the Upper Thame.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u102	On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Parliamentary appreciation of the development and investment plans in the electricity and natural gas networks, which, for the first time, takes place and will take place briefly, is a process that makes clear with meridian the absurdity and the economic, social, political and regulatory monstrosity of EDP and REN have been privatized and are now private companies. It is absurd and monstrosity, because they expose the imperative need for political evaluation and management, involving two sovereign bodies and a regulatory public entity — Government, Assembly of the Republic and ERSE — of the main investments of a private company. In fact, it could almost be said that, without the infrastructure(s) requiring such investment, REN did not exist. It is absurd and monstrosity, because it is fully visible that the need for this regulatory and political scrutiny is the consequence of this planning and investment of private companies to be paid ultimately by the customers of the national, electrical and natural gas systems, through parcel of their electricity or natural gas bill. It is absurd and monstrosity, because we are talking about an investment whose total volume of about EUR 2, EUR 4 billion over a period of 10 years will fall right in the bill of household consumers, of the Portuguese population.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u104	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u105	It is absurd and monstrosity, because this situation resulted from the political decision to privatize REN and EDP Distribution, ensuring that private companies, theoretically operating on markets, profit without risk, with 85 % coverage on their risk and activity, i.e. a remuneration of the capital fixed administratively by the regulatory entity, not even taking any kind of risk in carrying out possible investment on networks, their core business. It's a case to say, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen,'so do I! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” In addition, the REN also performs the eminently public and strategic function of the power station in the transport network — managing the access and transport of electricity from the producer centres, to be circulated in the transport network.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u106	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u107	It is evidence that the only satisfactory solution for the equation and recovery for the public sphere of the function of the REN office is the comprehensive public control of the REN and the EDP Distribution. This is the recovery of the public ownership of these companies and this is the objective that the CFP has long placed on the political agenda. We have put forward concrete proposals in the Assembly of the Republic to start with the technical, legal and regulatory assessment of the return to public control of the REN office office, but this debate will certainly have to continue. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the privatization of the energy sector represented, from a political point of view, a real crime for the national interest, for our economy, for our sovereignty and for the rights and living conditions of workers. That the technicians faced with precariousness, with subcontracting, with the obligation to register as entrepreneurs, who are not. That is what service providers, crushed by the economic power of EDP and subject to unbearable conditions for their activity. Let the workers of the call centers of EDP say so, faced with precariousness, low wages, constant attack on rights. from here we greet the workers, almost all young workers, who organize and fight and, once again, this week, on Youth Day, went to the Assembly of the Republic, raising their voice for the fair claim of recognition and integration as workers of the EDP, which are and must in fact be. What is urgent and indispensable, particularly in this sector, is an effective break with right-wing policy, facing the established interests of economic and multinational power, is defending and affirming our country's right to sovereignty and development, it is defending the rights of workers and the people. This is what we talk about when we talk about patriotic and leftist politics. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u108	On behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u109	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State for Energy, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, on such an important issue as this, I would say that the government did, or wanted, a very low-voltage debate when it was required to do so in high-voltage.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u110	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u111	Why? Because the government has answered very little of the questions that have been asked to it, the challenges of the future and intends to be a little hidden « to see what it gives ». But there are issues that deserve to be pointed out in this debate. From that point on, we reaffirm the availability for clear, rigorous discussion of investment plans in a completely different perspective. We understand that investments in the electro-producer sector will benefit consumers, but we want to know what part the consumer pays and what part the consumer should not pay. That, for us, is fundamental. Why? Obviously, we agree with the use of natural resources — today we have almost 50% of water and wind energy — in particular, in the National Plan of Potential Hydroelectric Dams, we have 8625 MW hired and in wind, as opposed to 4300 MW hired. Therefore, on this matter, as the regulator says, « attention to investments, care for investments, care for what is the invoice transferred to consumers ». But, Mr. Secretary of State for Energy, ladies and gentlemen. Members, particularly in management, excessive incomes have a 'father' and have a history. You certainly do not know what special production is. Production under special arrangements is no longer renewable and cogeneration paid in production, in the commercialization by CIEG ( costs of general economic interest ), which the Socialist Party, as a government, has increased from EUR 500 million to EUR 2500 million, three times more —...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u112	Well, well! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u113	... with the Socialist Party in silence and with the Left Block and the PCP realizing that nothing happened. This is the largest recorded factual increase in what are billboards, excessive revenues and premiums paid to the electro-producer sector. That's a reality. However, if we talk about the tariff deficit, we see that it also has a « father» and « mother » : Manuel Pinho and José Socrates.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u114	You have two "parents"!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u115	in this case, they are two « parents», it is true. But you better understand that the origin was there. Do you know why there was a tariff deficit? Because in the production on a special basis, with payments made in CAE (energy acquisition contract), CMEC (contract balance maintenance cost) and power guarantee, when they came to the conclusion that the regulator suggested to the government increases of 13 and 14 % of the energy price, you did not have the courage to take on this increase and, as there were elections, created the tariff deficit. And he's been growing up until today. The only government that reduced the tariff deficit was the PSD / CDS government. [[PS protests.]] You postponed the end of the tariff deficit, made a management and the deadline for ending the tariff deficit was postponed. I've already asked Mr. Secretary of State the question, but I'm going to want to do it again. Mr. Secretary of State, debt service has reduced this year, but what will happen in the following years? Mr. Secretary of State wants to explain to us what will happen in the following years? It was good to know what was going to happen in the years that followed. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u116	You will have to explain in particular what legislative instruments are aimed at reducing excessive income. It is true that in the PSD and CDS government — and I do not have much time now, but I can have documentation distributed — we have presented two packages of excessive income cuts, namely: reduction of allowances paid to cogeneration electricity producers — Portage No 140 / 2012 — with a saving of EUR 996 million; reduction of costs achieved with wind production, with the benefit of the remuneration scheme before 2005 plus EUR 151 million; introduction of the 25-year limit for the duration of the guarantee rate of small water plants, plus EUR 285 million; reduction of costs with CMECs, EUR 205 million. Legislative instruments, bills, gates, everything was done. at the end of a year and a half of governance, what is the result that you have to present? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u117	What are the concrete instruments? How does the consumer look at the legislation... I know that there comes the Poupa Plus and an entity that will help the consumer, and other tricks. But in fact, as it has been proved today, what you had planned in the State Budget, the famous occupation rate of the basement, which in the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto reaches completely unacceptable values, ended up in the invoice of consumers. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, say — and we will be here to discuss and support cuts in excessive incomes — what are the instruments, what are the cuts, in particular, in which amounts and in which sectors. If you can explain...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u118	Mr President, your time has already been greatly exceeded, so I would like to thank you for finishing.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u119	I shall finish, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. As I was saying, if you can explain and prove this, we will probably have a debate today, not in low tension, but at least on average. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u120	On behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Jorge Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u121	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State for Energy, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen: Energy transition is also an opportunity to reduce costs in the electrical system if it is hand in hand with combating energy poverty, rather than creating new incomes, as happened to the various governments that led the transition process to renewables over the last few years. The efficiency in investment in rehabilitation, decentralized production are opportunities for this cost reduction and for a more environmentally sustainable system. But the miracle of lowering the electricity tax, reducing the tariff debt and having an impact on the invoice without reaching the incomes installed in the electro-producer system will not be possible. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u122	It has already been done here, but it must be recalled again that the CMECs were introduced by the PSD/CDS government, Mr Hélder Amaral, and that is your story. We do not agree with the argument that CMECs are on the brink of the end, from a few years to the end. There's a decade left, ladies and gentlemen. Members, and in that decade we cannot afford to leave energy poverty, to have the excessive mortality rates in the winter that we have today on account of Europe's most expensive energy bill. Therefore, in the reviewability of CMECs, in the audit process that ERSE will have to strengthen, as was decided in the last State budget, and in the renegotiation of energy revenues it is possible and it is urgent to reduce the energy bill. Let us not be mistaken about what we are talking about here, because when we are in the opposition, the speeches become clearer, but when we are in the government, that has not been the case, nor the practice. There is a rotating door between policy and business that has one of its main headquarters in the energy system: since the EDP was privatized, 20 ministers have already passed through their management boards. This transit and this promiscuity between the government, the political decisions, the transition to the private sector and the decision in big business is what explains that the policies that have made the Portuguese pay over the decades are maintained. When we look at the reactions to the proposal that the Left Block has advanced on the recovery of public control of the office, strategic planning, sovereignty functions, which are now assigned to the REN, we find the most open reaction from the public and consumer point of view. Rodrigo Costa, President of the REN, came to vibrate with the possibility of blackouts in the system and problems of supply cuts. It's not the first time. in these companies, they are used to having the maximum privilege and do not accept the minimum criticism. When the social tariff was introduced, Nuno Ribeiro da Silva, President of Endesa, came to say that this would have consequences for the quality of the service. They note that the Presidents of these companies, when their business and their monopoly become political debate, have only one reflection: they threaten consumers and the system and tell people that they have power and control over this monopoly and that they can harm people's economy and lives. We do not accept this threat system, we do not accept this power of the private in relation to an electrical system that was built with the effort of taxes and the effort of public policy when these companies were under public control. This arrogance must have a political response. We do not count on these private agents and their greed to be part of the solution, but they know that they count on the Left Block as an opponent of retism, as an opponent of consumer abuse. It is in this role and in this function that we will find ourselves in all positive alternatives for consumers, for the energy transition towards renewables, but always with the sense of public interest and without transitions to profitability. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u123	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, the Bureau asked the ladies and gentlemen. Members who are comfortable and who create conditions for us to continue our work so that we can all hear each other. Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who are in transit if they sit down. On behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Testa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u124	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State for Energy, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: When the current government took possession, an overall vision for the energy sector is required. The reality that lived—and many of it still exists— was based on policies that disaggregate the system, dismembered the installed capacity and transformed the Public Administration into a mere facilitator of opportunities. Surrounded by an overlap of structures, it left empty in its action, allowing consumer rights to be subjugated and national interest to succumb as the model was reaching its objectives. The confusion installed by the simultaneous privatization of the main national operator — the EDP — and the REN, the eternal dealer of the physical network that allows the transport of electricity produced, acquired and distributed by the country, placed the Portuguese State in a position of useless spectator or not that is the main design of those who have defended such paths. The new government, supported by this new parliamentary majority, would have to achieve an integrated, articulated and global vision that is binding on the sector. This is how we took the factor of all investment plans as paramount in response to a prior discussion and effective scrutiny by the Assembly of the Republic. Only in this way are the strategic foundations of the investments to be made and the exclusion of those who overburden a tariff deficit which, within the limit, will always have the same payers. That is why we focused on limiting energy costs, achieving lower increases than the inflation rate level, both for gas and for electricity, which actually results in a reduction in consumer costs, because this reading can only be combined with reintroduction of income to families. It is in this sense that we are relaunching a broad programme of investment in renewable energy, once again putting Portugal as a precursor of this type of production, reducing the country's dependence on energy imports, but also on fossil fuels. The movement achieved by the Government in the collection of investments in solar energy will make Alentejo and Algarve regions of high value added, which, in the case, have no support for production, will be net wealth for the country, without overloading consumers, as it was once necessary to break down harmful paradigms for Portugal. That is why we acquired an automatic mechanism that ensured the access of 800 000 families to the social electricity tariff, allowing protection to the most disadvantaged consumers and that otherwise they would never have access to what had been legally enshrined long ago. in the same way, we face the conditionalisms set bare regarding the bottle gas and which reveal a distortion that needs to be corrected and which has already begun with the transition of regulation of this market to ERSE. In addition, the logistics operator of the marketer will enter into operation, which will meet at least two objectives: on the one hand, it will allow all consumers to change their electricity supply on the basis of the commercial offer that best adapts to their profile; on the other hand, this possibility will greatly contribute to the improvement of the proposals offered. In conclusion, it would not be possible to talk about energy, the current state and the objectives that are intended without talking about markets and the structures that accompany them, limiting their deficiencies and accelerating the beneficial efficiency for consumers, families and businesses. For years, such competences have been fragmented between the Directorate-General for Energy and Geology ( DGEG ), the Regulatory Entity for Energy Services and the National Entity for the Fuel Market ( ENMC ). The clarification has already begun with the announced extinction of ENMC, moving DGEG to perform the typical functions of the Public Administration and ERSE as solely responsible for regulating a sector, as it can only be, together. In less than two years, the vision changed: it became global. In less than two years, significant steps have been taken to ensure that markets function efficiently, that investors look for us, that operators wake up and that consumers benefit.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u125	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u126	Mr President, in less than two years, we have done so much! And we'll do even more in the next two and a half years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u127	On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Émídio Guerreiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u128	Mr President, Secretary of State for Energy, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, My Ladies and gentlemen: at the close of this energy debate, I would like to highlight the importance of this debate and point out some conclusions. For the social-communist majority supporting the government, the origin of the world came in 2011. Before that date, nothing happened, nothing that was decided and done has an impact on today and tomorrow. during this debate, we saw an attempt to rewrite the history, with the left parliament to deliberately forget the mistakes committed before 2011 and all efforts made between 2011 and 2015 to correct some of these errors. Much has been done and much has been achieved in this period, in which, as a result of the previous de-government, we had to deal with the presence of international creditors and with an adjustment programme negotiated and signed by those in power today. in this period, I would like to highlight the significant cut in the incomes of the energy sector, which, contrary to what was said by Mr. Secretary of State of Energy, is not a myth, it is a reality—in fact, I would very much like to know what was cut, by the current government, over these 14 months in these incomes. I also highlight the wager in renewable energy at no cost for taxpayers whose weight increased from 45 % in 2011 to 62 % in 2014. It is also worth highlighting the generalization of low-cost fuels and the extension of the social electricity tariff from about 45 000 to 130 000 beneficiaries, a good example which, fortunately, has not been reversed by this government and whose expansion with the new rules we are looking forward to. Finally, I stress the approval of the Green Growth Commitment, involving civil society in a single effort to set ambitious environmental targets for the country. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the majority are not interested in this at present, although they are ruling in favour of the much that has been done. I recall that a supposedly stable, credible and lasting government solution was presented to the country. Unfortunately, as in many other sectors, we also find that this is not the case in energy policy. The contradictions between the political positions of the different parties that support the government are notorious. Various legislative initiatives and their votes thus prove so. The recent disagreement with oil exploration and exploitation between the parties of the majority is just another example that something goes wrong in the social-communist coalition. And so there goes the argument of credibility and stability. in this government what we have is a tax bill of hundreds of millions of euros to large companies and the increase in fuel for families and businesses, in a shameful history of an additional fuel tax, tax, which would be reviewed quarterly and which, after all, came to remain and to penalise everyone, without exception. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is also because of these sad episodes that we look to the future with concern. Little has been done by the manifest difficulty in creating consensus in the present majority. This is the only way to explain the initiatives that the Socialist Party brings to the debate today: a set of generalities, in which a study is proposed to evaluate the 10 years of co-existence of regulated and liberalised tariffs — therefore, one more strategy equal to the existing one — and it is recommended that the use of renewable energy should not be abandoned. Finally, studies and recommendations about everything and about nothing and of which nothing results in a palpable manner for the citizen. At the inaction of the government and at the obvious difficulty of creating consensus within the majority, the PS proposes these initiatives to soften the coalition partners and create the illusion that something is being done.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u129	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u130	It's short, very short. The country, citizens and businesses can no longer wait. This is the challenge we have left: do it, stop talking and rule! After all, where is the most stable, credible and lasting? Are they capable or not capable of fulfilling what they claim to have? If so, rule once and for all and spare us palliative pretenses, that nothing solves. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u131	On behalf of the Government, the floor is Mr. Secretary of State for Energy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u132	Mr President, dear colleague State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One year ago, Portugal had the most expensive electricity and natural gas prices in Europe. One year later, we found that more than 800 000 families had automatic access to the social rate, a discount of more than 30 % on family turnover. This week, a report from the European Commission welcomed all the new measures taken by the Government and the Assembly of the Republic towards cost control and price reduction to consumers, such as: double-subsidised research of renewables; the clear option taken by the Government to authorise renewables without tariff-feeded in, i.e., without subsidies paid by consumers;... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... carrying out auctions for the guarantee of power — a subsidy that would cost, if nothing had been done, EUR 665 million to consumers; the definition of rigour criteria with a view to decreasing costs with interruption. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time that this is happening: a report by the European Union which does not point to excessive energy failures and incomes, but which highlights the correct measures taken. It is very good that the European Union should include this in this report. Those who so much like to quote negative reports from the European Union on the country have a good opportunity to read the European Union's latest report on energy issues! [[P.S.'s applause.]] However, the price challenge remains central, with obvious gains for the quality of life of families and for the competitiveness of businesses. Today, we have added new challenges to the future, in the capacity to innovate and to take advantage of our potential. Today it is published in the Journal of the Republic the decree establishing a new project in relation to the relationship between natural gas and electricity systems with consumers, creating and developing a digital platform, which will be called "Purpa Energia" and which aims to facilitate the lives of consumers and to help them, wanting, in the change of marketer. Its creation, attributed to the Energy Agency, will become possible in its statutes that any company or individual person may form as its associate, and this is essential to explain and dynamize the retail energy market. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is intended that, in the end, it may be possible, through access to a website, that the consumer may have information about the best seller according to the profile of each customer and choose, immediately, the one that will be most convenient. Some of these examples of functionality will be as follows: recommendation on the commercial proposal that best suits each customer on the basis of their consumption profile; information on how to contract natural gas and electricity services; information on the deadlines for connecting or re-establishing connections; information on social tariff discounts, among others. This is a measure that has more than 10 years of promises and will still be implemented this year! [[P.S.'s applause.]] To date, this process has been ensured, in the case of electricity, by EDP Distribution and, in the case of natural gas, by REN, the costs borne by the electrical system and by the gas system, i.e. by all consumers. This was a circumstance that clearly conditions the normal functioning of the market. Moreover, as we all know, there is a high asymmetry of information between operators and consumers, especially families, justified by the complexity of the topic itself. This is what we want: to innovate in this sector and make it the leader at European level, as we are in renewables. Portugal has assumed itself in recent years as an example country in renewable electricity, and it is good that Portuguese have been proud of this national political brand. As a country, we did what intelligence required us to do: not having fossil resources, we applied to the electric sector an ambitious plan to promote renewables, which allows us to give great international examples of the success of this strategy. At this level we must highlight the international example, which was the fact that Portugal had been operating in our country for more than four days last year alone and exclusively with renewable energy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Members, this option, these future investments have placed Portugal on the radar of many international investments, either in the energy sector or in associated industrial sectors, as was the creation of the wind cluster in Portugal, responsible for more than 1800 direct jobs and annual exports of more than 300 million euros. in the last year, in this government, we have authorized seven solar plants, without consumer subsidies, which will compete in terms of price with the existing power plants already installed but also with fossil energy production. They are already more than 400 MW authorised and more than 2000 MW with expressions of interest that mark the difference and also guarantee financial sustainability. On the other hand, it constituted a diversification of the national energy mix, which so far was essentially based on water and solar energy. We are now in the south of the country — in Alentejo and in Algarve — to do the survey and mapping of the best solar power production points to place it at the service of the electricity system and in line with the country's strategy. This is the survey that, at the moment, the energy services do about the country in relation to the network, in relation to protected areas and in relation to the great solar potential that our country has and that it wants to take advantage of, precisely for a more sustainable way of life, but also economically. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Very recently, like the others. Members are aware, it was presented in Alcoutim, in Algarve, that it will be Europe's largest solar power station, without consumer subsidies, without tariffed in, with more than 200 MW of installed capacity. We support a sustainable energy model for Portugal through the promotion of measures and technologies that allow energy efficiency gains, the use of renewable endogenous resources, ensuring this balanced mix and the strengthening of the necessary electricity interconnections with Europe. As in the new technologies, Portugal believes that the future in energy is in the network and the use of its potential at various levels of scale, from the local, regional, national and intercontinental levels. Many of these results stem from the commitment of many Portuguese, businesses and consumers to the commitment made to the European Union to contribute 31 % of renewable energy sources to final energy consumption by 2020. Portugal has now reached more than 87 % of the target set for 2020. We're on our way! In fact, at the end of 2015 approximately 12 300 MW of renewable technologies were licensed, more than 60 % of the power of the entire electricity-producing park. But this isn't enough. It is not enough if, at the same time, we do not have the ability to put the green energy we produce in a competitive economy in the rest of Europe, contributing to the necessary security in energy supply and the sustainability of our system. Green energy has to be free. Portugal has to make these resources profitable.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u133	You want to finish, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u134	Of course, Mr. President. Finally, I would like to say to the ladies and gentlemen. Members: Portugal has assumed with Morocco an extraordinary objective of interconnecting two countries and two continents. thus we have also achieved a political commitment at the level of Portugal, Spain, France and Germany, which will surely help to unlock what has not been done so far and which has to do with the existence of a standard at the level of the European Union, which ensures precisely that interconnections are not only the political declarations we know in the past but that they are objectively a legal record in the European Union itself. Mr President, I conclude by saying that these are the objectives of the government's energy policy: to defend consumers and also, of course, sustainability. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u135	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus closed the first item on the agenda. of the second point is the time-free schedule of very diverse draft laws on changes in territorial limits and changes in denominations of freguesa presented by the PSD, PS and the CDS-PP, which, as they will understand, will not be set out individually and which will be voted on in the following voting period. Let us then move on to the voting period. He asked the services to activate the electronic system to check the quorum. [[Pause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the electronic framework records 200 presences, to which three are added, one of them to my own, which I have not been able to register - it is the first time that this has happened, but there is always the first time for everything - and that of the Members. PSD Members Pedro Passos Coelho and Sérgio Azevedo, thanking 203 Members, therefore we have a quorum for deliberation to proceed to the vote. Mrs. Members, I request Mr António Carlos Monteiro to proceed with the reading of vote No 264 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Praised World Theatre Day ( CDS-PP, PS, PS, BE, and PCP ).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: «On March 27, all over the world, we celebrate the Theatre Day. We celebrate the authors and the actors, the stage setters and the spectators, the stage arts and the desire to enter into this assembly in which together we have the experience of the theatre. Throughout the country, on this day, in large institutions and in small companies, they open up doors, they come together, they organize conferences and shows. Because celebrating the World Theatre Day is recognizing creativity and the experience of transformation, it is participating directly in history and in small stories, it is representing and reflecting. Because, as Gonçalo M. Tavares wrote, ‘ The theater is, must be, a ticket to change life. ’ Today we celebrate this eternal art, because always reinvented, as actress Isabelle Huppert says today, in UNESCO's official message for World Theatre Day. in this message, which will be read on stage throughout the world today, it is stated, in a clear tribute to the history of the theatre, that ‘ the most contemporary pieces are fed by the past centuries, the most classic reporters become modern every time we stage them. ’ And yet, that “the theatre is very strong ” and“ resists and survives all, to war, to censorship, to misery. ” And that is in this ‘ability to represent another’, and in the ‘no hate’, that we have the possibility to create citizens of the world. Among all the artists we celebrate today, we especially point out the actor Ruy de Carvalho, who celebrates this month his 90 years in an extraordinary life, 75 of which are devoted to theatre. He is the living proof of talent, dedication, permanent reinvention and surrender to an art and to the Portuguese public—who recognizes him as one of his greatest. It remains humble, saying: ‘ I don’t need to be great, I don’t need to have huge roles or protagonists. I need to take part in a good show. ’ The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, signs this World Theatre Day and joins in the celebration and recognition of all the scenic arts. Do not keep on seeking. ” [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] I would like to stress that actor Ruy de Carvalho is present in the galleries. We can take advantage of the greeting. [[General applause, stand up.]] Let's go, vote, generally, bill No. 347 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Excludes the Judiciary Police and the Foreign and Border Service from the scope of the General Law on Public Works ( fourth amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June ) ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 467 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the General Law on Public Works, excluding the Judiciary Police and the Foreign and Border Service from their scope ( fifth amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June ) ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This bill also drops to 1. the Commission. We now turn to the vote on draft resolution No 769 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government deepen collaboration between the Portuguese Air Force ( FAP ) and the National Civil Protection Authority ( ANPC ) in relief, rescue and, in particular, in combating forest fires ( CDS-PP ). According to the request, we shall first vote on points (a) and (e). [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, CCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention were adopted.]] Let us now vote on points ( b), (c) and (d). [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN were adopted, against the PCP and the Greens, and with abstentions from the PS and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u137	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u138	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u139	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u140	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. We turn to the general vote on Bill No 61 / XIII ( 2 ). (a) — establishes the legal regime for the prevention, prohibition and combating of discrimination on the basis of racial and ethnic origin, colour, nationality, descent and territory of origin. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions from the PSD and BE.]] This bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We shall generally vote for Bill No. 470 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the system of penalties applicable to discrimination due to disability by amending Article 240. the Criminal Code ( CDS-PP ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission We shall vote for a request by BE, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without voting, for a period of 30 days, of Bill No 471 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Penal Code by strengthening the fight against racial discrimination (BE). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 457 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amendment to the law establishing the schemes for the linkage of careers and remuneration of employees who perform public functions ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PS, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] The bill goes down to 10. Commission We shall generally vote on Bill No 475 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establish conditions for equality between workers in career progression by managerial option ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] The bill goes down to 10. the Commission. We shall vote together three requests, submitted by the authors of the diplomas, asking for the discharge to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without voting, for a period of 30 days, of the projects of lein. 436 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter the Civil Code, eliminating discrimination between men and women in matters of international time ( BE ), 472 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Review the legal regime of impediments enshrined in the Civil Code, revising the time limits applicable to the conclusion of marriages ( PS ) ( the initial text was replaced at the author's request ), and 474 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Ensures the individual freedom of each person to enter into marriage by eliminating the period of time provided for in Article 1605. the Civil Code ( PAN ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 656 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government immediately reverse the increase in the cost of tolls of A22, maintaining its freezing until the requalification works of EN125 are completed ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 674 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — by abolishing the tolls on the Way of the Child ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP and votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and 4 PS Members (António Eusébio, Fernando Anastácio, Jamila Madeira and Luís Graça).]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 621 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government suspend the collection of tolls in A22 until the completion of the requalification works of EN125, insofar as these works close parts or produce substantial constraints on circulation ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 691 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Determines the elimination of tolls on A22 / Child Route ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP and votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and 4 PS Members (António Eusébio, Fernando Anastácio, Jamila Madeira and Luís Graça).]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution 767 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Elimination of the collection of tolls on the Via do Infante ( The Greens ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP and votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens, the PAN and 4 PS Members (António Eusébio, Fernando Anastácio, Jamila Madeira and Luís Graça).]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u141	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u142	To what effect, Mr. João Vasconcelos?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u143	Mr President, it is to be announced that the Left Block Parliamentary Group will present a set of explanations of vote on the last votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u144	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. Mr Eusebius also asked for the floor. To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u145	Mr President, it is also to announce that the four Members elected by the electoral circle of the Socialist Party will present a statement of vote on the last votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u146	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 476 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Suspends the arrangements for updating the value of meals and the supplement of accommodation in public higher education institutions ( CFP ), with the initial text being replaced at the request of the author. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstention from the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u147	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u148	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u149	Mr President, it is to announce that, on my behalf and on behalf of the representatives of Diogo León and João Torres, we will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u150	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. We shall generally vote for Bill No. 440 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Determination of housing prices and meals for higher education students according to the social support indexer ( PSD ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]] This bill goes down to 8. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 473 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Automatic indexation of maximum meal and accommodation prices for students in higher education than the social support indexer ( PS ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]] The diploma also falls to 8.The Commission. We shall generally vote for Bill No. 469 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Setting housing and meals prices to public higher education students based on the social support indexer ( CDS-PP ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]] The bill goes down to 8.The Commission. Before we proceed to the vote on draft resolutions Nos 771 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government assess the first ten years of coexistence of regulated tariffs and tariffs liberalized in the electric sector and promote additional measures to protect the energy consumer ( PS ), 772 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government strategic lines of action on development and investment plans in the energy sector ( PS ) and 773/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government give priority to investment in renewable energy without guaranteed tariffs in regions with the most potential and lack of investment ( PS ), I give the floor to Secretary Idália Serrão to read a statement on behalf of Mrs Jamila Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the statement is as follows: « I, Jamila Madeira, pursuant to Article 8 ( 3 ). Article 27 ( 2 ) and ( b ). the Statute of Members, respectively on grounds of conscience and possible conflict of interest, declare that I will not participate in the vote, which will take place at the plenary meeting of 31 March 2017, of the following draft resolutions: 771 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government assess the first ten years of coexistence of regulated tariffs and tariffs liberalized in the electric sector and promote additional measures to protect the energy consumer ( PS ) ; 772 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) ( PS ) — Recommends to the Government strategic action lines for energy development and investment plans ( PS ) and 773/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) ( PS ) — Recommends that the Government prioritise investment in renewable energy without guaranteed tariffs in regions with more potential and lack of investment ( PS ) ».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u152	Mrs. Members, in principle, we are not going to vote on these draft resolutions because we are going to vote on a request for discharge to the Commission without a vote of all these diplomas. So I don't think this is the time to make this statement. Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u153	Mr President, it is, in fact, as I said. We shall vote for the Commission's application for the discharge of diplomas, without a vote, and therefore the declaration would not be necessary. In any case, it is important to clarify that Members can not fail to participate in the vote, they must declare the particular interest, under the penalty of the electoral college being altered and this obviously gives rise to complications from the point of view of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u154	That is not the case, Mr, because what we are going to vote on is the request.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u155	But, Mr President, as we will eventually have to vote on the draft resolutions, it is important that this be clarified in the meantime.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u156	All right, Mr. Deputies. Let us then vote on a request submitted by the PS, asking for a reduction to 6. the Commission, without voting for a period of 45 days on draft resolutions Nos 771 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government assess the first ten years of coexistence of regulated tariffs and tariffs liberalized in the electric sector and promote additional measures to protect the energy consumer ( PS ), 772 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government strategic lines of action on development and investment plans in the energy sector ( PS ) and 773/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government give priority to investment in renewable energy without guaranteed tariffs in regions with more potential and lack of investment ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] In view of this vote, the draft resolutions will be until another day, as possibly the statement made by PS Member Jamila Madeira. We proceed to the general vote, in the general speciality and global end of Bill No. 99 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Changes in the territorial limits of the parish of Valongo ( PSD ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote, also in general, in the speciality and in the overall final vote, draft law No 114 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amendment of the name of the Union of Freguesias de Santarém ( Marvila ), Santa Iria da Ribeira de Santarém, Santarém ( São Salvador ) and Santarém ( São Nicolau ), in the municipality of Santarém, for Union of Freguesias of the city of Santarém ( PSD ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]] We move on to the joint vote, in general, in the overall specialty and final, of the projects of lein. 222 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Change in the territorial limits between the parish of Sex of Manhoses and the Union of Fregues of Valtorno and Mourão and the Union of Fregues of Cando and Carvalho de Egas ( PS ), 283 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amend the territorial limits of the parish of Pedrouzos and Rio Tinto of the municipalities of Maia and Gondomar ( PSD ), 284 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Amend the territorial limits of the parish of Santa and Rio Tinto of the municipalities of Maia and Gondomar ( PSD ), 285 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Amendment of the name of the parish of Penhalonga and Paços de Gaiolo, in the municipality of Marco de Canaveses, for the parish of Penha Longa and Paços de Gaiolo ( PSD ), 290 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Amendment of the designation of the Freguesia de Santiago dos Velhos in the municipality of Arruda dos Vinhos, for the parish of S. Tiago dos Velhos ( PS ), 294 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Changes in territorial boundaries between the parish of Gove and the Union of the Frequencies of Ancede and Ribadouro in the municipality of Baião ( PSD ), 397 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amendment of the name of the street parish, municipality of Moimenta da Beira, to Vila da Rua ( PS ) and 411 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Change of the name of the current street parish in the municipality of Moimenta da Beira ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We will also vote together in general, in the expertise and in the overall final vote, the projects of lein.o 422 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amends the territorial boundaries of the parish and Delães of Vila Nova de Famalicão ( PSD ) and 435 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amends the territorial boundaries of the parish of Delães and Oliveira São Mateus of Vila Nova de Famalicão ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP and PAN and votes against the CFP and the Greens.]] Let us now vote together on draft resolutions Nos 400 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures allowing the creation of the hydraulic circuit of Reg rounds of Monsaraz ( connection to the alqueva albueira ) ( PSD ) and 573/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to allow the creation of the Viana do Alentejo hydraulic circuit ( connection to the alqueva album ) ( PSD ). [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE and CDS-PP, votes against the PS and abstentions of the CFP, the Greens, the NAP and the Deputies of PS Norberto Patinho and Pedro do Carmo were adopted.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u157	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u158	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u159	Mr President, I just want to inform you that Mr Pedro do Carmo and I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u160	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 510 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the immediate and total re-qualification of EN125 between Vila do Bispo and Vila Real de Santo António and the replacement of the construction of the variants and other parts contained in the initial contract ( BE ) for which a separate vote was requested from point 3. We therefore voted first of all on point 3 of that motion for a resolution. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and PS and with votes in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] Let us now vote on points 1, 2 and 4 of draft resolution No 510 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 649/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends the adoption of urgent measures to address the problems faced by health care units as a result of the underfinancing of the National Health Service ( CFP ).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u161	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u162	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u163	Mr President, I think there was a request for disaggregation and a separate vote on point 6.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u164	I have no indication here, Mr President. This is a draft resolution submitted by the CFP, and no breakdown was requested but may be required.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u165	So, Mr President, the PSD therefore requires the separate vote on point 6 and then the joint vote on the remaining points.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u166	Mr President, let us therefore vote point 6 of draft resolution No 649 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from PS and the CDS-PP.]] We now vote on the remaining points, 1 to 5, of the same draft resolution. [[When put to the vote, the votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS, PS and CDS-PP were adopted.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 770 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Multi-year commitment to greater investment in the National Health Service ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from PS, PS and CDS-PP.]] Let us now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 257 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Valuation of teachers classifying national examinations ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u167	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u168	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u169	I would like to announce that the Socialist Party will present a statement of vote on this vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u170	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. The vote was followed by draft resolution No 728 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Rejects partial and provisional entry into force of the Global Economic and Trade Agreement ( CETA ) between the European Union and Canada ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 742 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — by rejecting the Global Economic and Trade Agreement — CETA ( European Union-Canada ) ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We move on to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation, on Bill No 53 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Review the securities law sanction scheme, transpose Directive 2014 / 57 / EU and Implementing Directive ( EU ) 2015 / 2392 and adapt the Portuguese law to EU Regulation No 596 / 2014. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u171	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u172	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u173	Mr President, I would like to announce that the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party will present a statement of vote on the vote we have just held.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u174	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We move on to the overall final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 48 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 22 / 2013 of 26 February giving judicial administrators access to various databases, including the computer record of executions, tax databases and social security. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall proceed to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization on the drafts of lein.o 396 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Clarifies the holder of economic interest in the rates for card-based payment operations ( amendment to the Seal Tax Code approved by Law No 150 / 99 of 11 September ) ( PS ), 404 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — It makes it clear that the charge of seal tax on commissions charged to traders falls on the financial system ( CFP ) and 410 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Ensure that the seal tax affecting rates charged by card-based payment operations falls on the financial institutions ( amendment to the Seal Tax Code as approved by Law No 150 / 99 of 11 September ) ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We move on to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on Bill No 45 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves measures for uniform application and practical enforcement of the right to free movement of workers by transposing Directive 2014 / 54 / EU. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] It is now necessary to proceed to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on the proposal for a law No 54 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Facilitates recognition of professional qualifications and reduces constraints on the free movement of persons and transposes Directive 2013 / 55 / EU. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on Bill No 54 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Facilitates recognition of professional qualifications and reduces constraints on the free movement of persons and transposes Directive 2013 / 55 / EU. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] By consensus of the parliamentary groups and the Government, the vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on Bill No 55 / XIII ( 2 ) was postponed. ( a ) — transposes Directive 2014 / 67 / EU on the posting of workers within the framework of the provision of services. We have three opinions from the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees to vote. Mr. Secretary António Carlos Monteiro has the floor to give an account of these opinions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of Judge 15 of the Central Criminal Court of Lisbon of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa — Case No 3902 / 13.0JFLSB —, the Subcommittee on Ethics decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Paula Teixeira da Cruz ( PSD ) to intervene in the proceedings as a witness within the scope of those cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u176	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] No objection, we'll vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the General Judiciary of Competition from them of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Viseu — Case No 19 / 17.2T8NLS —, the Subcommittee on Ethics decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Isaura Pedro ( PSD ) to intervene in the proceedings as a witness within the framework of those cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u178	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] Since there is no objection, we will vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of Judge 2 of the Loures Labour Court of the District Court of Northern Lisbon — Case No 13 738 / 15.9T8LRS —, the Subcommittee on Ethics decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Rui Riso ( PS ) to intervene in the proceedings as a witness within the framework of those cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-31.u180	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] No objection, we'll vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are finishing our work today. The next plenary meeting will take place on Wednesday, 5 April, at 3 p.m., and will have on the agenda, in addition to political statements, the assessment of petition No 187 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Protection of the Forte de Peniche from granting to private ( José Pedro Correia Soares et al.) together with draft resolutions 542 / XIII ( 2. a ) — Preservation of memory and history of Forte de Peniche ( BE ), 785 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government preserve, preserve and dignify the Peniche Fortress ( PS ) and 790 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recovery, requalification and valorization of the Forte de Peniche ( PCP ), and finally the discussion of petition No 126 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — by virtue of the right to VAT-free health ( Pedro Choi Amélia Cordeiro and others) together with draft resolution No 783 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish a specific code in the CEF for non-conventional therapy ( NCT ) ( NAP ). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish you all a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 57 minutes.]]
