ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I ask the authorities to open the public galleries. I will now give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco — and today he has a hard task — to announce the file. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the projects of lein. 459 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Eliminates the fines on self-employed workers who have lag behind in payment of their contributions to social security until the new contribution scheme ( BE ) is approved, which falls to 10. the Commission, 460 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Extends the right and permanent remuneration of members of supervisory boards whose composition results in total or partial election of the Assembly of the Republic ( CFP ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 461 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Extends parental protection to parents with children with disabilities or rare disease ( BE) and 462 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates a specific prematurity or hospital stay permit for newborns ( PCP ) ; and draft regiment No 1 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Second amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2007, in order to include in the public discussion obligation disability legislation ( CDS-PP ). Draft resolutions 741 / XIII ( 2 ) were also accepted. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government restore access to the northern and southern entry knots ( PSD ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 742 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — by rejecting the Global Economic and Commercial Agreement — CETA ( European Union-Canada ) ( BE ), which falls to 2. the Commission, 743 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government suspend the fines applicable to self-employed persons until the definition of the new social security contribution scheme ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 744 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop a specific qualification programme for long-term unemployed 45 or more years of age ( PSD ) which falls to 10. the Commission, 745 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure access to the right to participation of medicinal products ( CFP ) by reformers from the laniphy industry, which falls to 9. the Commission, 746 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote a true inclusive school, in compliance with Recommendation No 1 / 2014 of the NEC, and with the recommendations of the special education working group, established by Office No 706 - C / 2014 ( CDS-PP ), 747 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the study of alternative methods for the exercise of voting rights by disabled citizens ( CDS-PP ), 748 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop support for entrepreneurship and self-employment for people with disabilities ( CDS-PP ), 749 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government encourage the creation of the Portuguese self-represented platform for persons with disabilities until the end of 2. the term of this year ( CDS-PP ), 750 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government that the value for the accumulation of disability benefit with work income is not less than the sum of the reference value of the social benefit for inclusion with the guaranteed minimum monthly remuneration ( CDS-PP ), 751 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government reformulate support for firms employing persons with disabilities ( CDS-PP ), 752 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government value the activity of assistive dogs training entities, in particular by defining a stable and continuous financial support framework ( CDS-PP ), 753 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop a national awareness campaign for compliance with the accessibility law ( CDS-PP ), 754 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a Portuguese Gestive Interpreter Exchange in order to ensure the accessibility of public services ( PAN ), 755 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, in the context of the revision of Decree-Law No 3 / 2008 of 7 January, promote inclusive school in a comprehensive manner ( BE ), 757 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends support to the Government for national dairy production, combating the speculation of large distribution and concerted positions for the replacement of a regulatory regime ( CFP ), 758 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Extension of the service of the balconies of inclusion and recognition of all evidence of disability and disability, improving the conditions of access to them ( PCP ), 759 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Value of vocational training for persons with disabilities ( CFP ), 760 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strengthening the responses of the National System of Precoce intervention ( PCP ) and 762 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop a specific qualification programme for long-term unemployed 45 years of age ( PSD ). I also have a report and an opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which refers to the waiver of the mandate in accordance with Articles 3. a is 7. the Statute of Deputies, by Mr Manuel Rodrigues ( PSD ), electoral circle of Coimbra, being replaced by Ana Elisabete Laborda Oliveira, with effects from 20 March, including the temporary impediment by the candidate who followed him on the list, Nuno Miguel Pestana Chaves and Castro de Incarnation. The opinion is that the waiver of the mandate required by Mr. Manuel Rodrigues ( PSD ) fulfils the legal requirements and should be replaced by Ana Elisabete Laborda Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mr Duarte Pacheco, thank you very much for this Republican effort! [[PSD applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the next item is the 15-year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure, which means that it begins with questions from the parliamentary groups to which Mr Prime Minister will answer immediately. You have the floor to put questions to Mrs Cristas of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister, much has been said in recent days about the results of PERES ( Special Programme for the Reduction of State Allowance ), which has been used not only by means and small enterprises in difficulties but also by large companies. However, there is another fiscal measure in your State budget which has been less spoken and which also deserves to be assessed. I'm talking about asset revaluation. The CDS was against this measure in the State budget because we understand that it set up a real tax bill for large companies that were those that would be able to take advantage of. He valued his asset and above all, if we were talking about the energy sector, he only had a positive impact because he would not take into account the penalty in the Extraordinary Contribution on the Energy Sector. It was recently known that the EDP Report and Accounts, which is crystalline in this area and shows us by + b that EDP had an advantage with PERES in EUR 20 million and with the valuation of assets in EUR 174 million. Therefore, it had a tax benefit of EUR 174 million. I would like to know, Mr. Prime Minister, how it comments on this result, which indications have of other companies, what was the total value of loss of revenue to the State with this measure. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u5	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u6	Mr President, Mrs Cristas, as regards the total number, then I will make it to you. I will ask the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs to make it available. As far as PERES is concerned, what I can tell you is that it was a measure addressed to all taxpayers — about 90 000 taxpayers were able to join and join — and that, contrary to what happened in other situations, it allowed the adoption of a benefit scheme that allowed the revenue to be extended over a number of years. in the specific case, the revenue entry extending-CL will be up to 2028, allowing many companies to regulate their tax situation without any forgiveness of the capital debt, and there is simply a benefit in terms of interest. As regards the revaluation of assets, it was a measure adopted under the enterprise capitalisation programme to support companies in creating capitalisation conditions. It was a measure open to all companies, which benefited in different degrees depending on the revaluation that was made of their assets. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u7	Mrs Assumption Cristas continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u8	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I was told that 90 000 companies have resorted to PERES. I would like to know how many companies have resorted to asset revaluation. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u9	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u10	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not in a position to say. The Minister of Finance has told me that he will be informed and I hope that by the end of this debate I can give you the number accurately. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u11	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u12	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I really appreciate that I am given an explanation because I suspect that it has been taken advantage of by very few small businesses and, above all, I suspect that it has been taken advantage of by the largest companies, such in the energy sector that some of their partners claim to have high incomes, such as the case of EDP, which now has a tax bill of EUR 174 million. [[CDS-PP applause.]] With regard to EDP, I can show the Report and Accounts because I have it; with respect to others, it is more difficult to figure out. So I ask the Government the question. I just wanted to tell you that we were puzzled because, in fact, when there was a government's chance to approve a measure proposed by the CDS, which was to download the IRC to all companies, and when that happened in 2015 the tax impact was even positive, there was an increase and not a reduction in tax revenue—,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u13	There was nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u14	...that measure, which was for all companies, was rejected. This measure of asset revaluation seems to be for all companies, but in practice our suspicion is that it can only be taken advantage of by very few companies. It's a real tax PPP, giving a big deal to big companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u16	So we'll be here to see where the government's fiscal fairness is. Mr Prime Minister, let me move on to a second issue, which has to do with a concern that we have about a certain report from the ECB ( the European Central Bank ), which we do not know, where there are apparently many criticisms about Portugal. I would like to ask you directly if you have any knowledge of the report, if you have already asked the Vice-President of the ECB and the European Socialist, Vítor Constance, if you know it, what you can tell us about it and what impact it can have.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u18	I have heard some zunzuns about sanctions and I don't want to believe in that part until I believe that this can influence the European Commission, so I don't want to go back to that film last year, but I ask you - and I am worried when it comes from the ECB - if this can have any impact on the Portuguese public debt buying programme by the ECB. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u19	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u20	Mr President, Mrs Deputy, tomorrow we will have the final numbers of the National Institute of Statistics on Portugal's deficit in 2016. I have already had the opportunity to announce first hand to the House that according to government forecasts it will not exceed 2, 1 %. To confirm tomorrow the numbers that we have given and with which we have worked, this means not only that we have had the best 42-year deficit in democracy, it means not only that for the first time we have a deficit below 3 %, as we were 0, 4 %, 4 tenths, below the limit set by the European Commission. However, if, for the 2015 financial year, it was absurd to speak in sanctions, the more absurd it becomes, for the most reason, even to think of the idea of sanctions for the 2016 financial year. I believe that if we all agreed that no sanctions were justified in Portugal for 2015, we will also agree that no sanctions in Portugal for 2016 are justified. Secondly, the ECB's report is a technical report which does not make its own assessment but is based on the report made by the European Commission. With regard to this report from the European Commission, we have already had the opportunity to discuss here, we know that much of the data you have been working with are already out of date based on a forecast framework which has completely denied reality, and which assesses, six months later, the implementation of a national reform programme approved by the European Commission in April. Now, as it is obvious, it is measures that are aimed at solving the country's structural problems, indeed, only a hyperirritant hyperoptimist... [[PS laughter.]] ... is that you could believe it is possible to solve a structural problem of the country during the four or five months subject to this evaluation. We therefore do not significantly appreciate this report, as did Mr President of the Republic, which yesterday recommended that it not be valued, but I take this opportunity to inform you that, in fact, I was contacted by Dr. Vítor Constáncio, following a statement in the social communication on its responsibility in that report, which was kindly to inform me that you did not participate in this report in any way or at any meeting where it was approved. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u21	You still have the floor to Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u22	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I take good note of the fact that for the Vice-President of the ECB Vítor Constáncio this report, which, according to the words of the Prime Minister, will be out of date, will not have any negative effects on Portugal and I hope that this defence will be made, because, finally, as regards European Socialists - we agree - we are scaled up... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u23	...with the recent statements of your political partner,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u24	They're the same as yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u25	... which has already been condemned by the Portuguese Government, and well, when referring to the countries of the South. It is because the PPE ( European People's Party ), in particular President Juncker, have been very supportive of Portugal in their words and actions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u26	Exactly! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u27	And Schäuble too! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u28	So it's good to put things in your proper place. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u29	Mr. Prime Minister, with regard to the deficit, we will see the final results, but I have often said that a historic deficit, the lowest of democracy, always reminds me of the words of one of his predecessors that two and a half years later did not bring anything good. And they didn't bring anything good, because we had a debt problem. Debt is a subject that I have often brought to this House because I still worry a lot. And it is not just me, it is enough to look at the famous rating agencies, that we do not like but that influence our lives, to see that they continue to classify Portugal with the “waste” level. But as far as debt is concerned, let me ask you another question that has to do with the debts of hospitals and also with the issue of deficit. Mr Prime Minister, last year the debts of hospitals grew at EUR 30 million per month. at the end of the year, thanks to PERES, thanks to this extraordinary revenue from PERES, it was possible to make a reduction in this debt. It follows that in January this year, in the first month of the year, debt increased EUR 63 million in EPE hospitals, as reported by the entity accompanying this matter. What Mr. Prime Minister has to say about this, when everywhere there are criticisms of lack of investment, late payment and increased debt. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u30	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u31	Mr President, Mrs Cristas, first of all, I would like to say that the Minister of Finance has informed me, however, that there were 181 companies that have joined the legal asset revaluation regime, convinced that the revaluation of assets is not a blot. The reassessing of assets is the possibility of companies, by reassessing a component of their balance sheet, to have an amendment to that balance sheet, which will, in particular, facilitate access to credit. And this, of course, has consequences on those who are the profits of companies and, therefore, on their level of taxation. This is not a stock market, it is simply a matter of assessing, increasing or decreasing, as the case may be, all assets of a company. Allow me now to correct an observation I made recently. He said that tomorrow INE numbers would be released, but he was wrong, because he thought it was Thursday. These data will therefore be released on Friday, not tomorrow, which means that there are two more days to wait, but we will also be more sure within two days. With regard to European issues, I have always been careful to try never to make an approach on the basis of division between political families and even less on the basis of geographical criteria. In fact, I have not been tired of praising the constructive way in which President Juncker has acted and I have not avoided censoring elements of the PPE, when they have unfair attitudes towards Portugal, as happens, for example, often with Minister Schäuble. But I will also not give up on saying what I have to say, even when someone called Labour uses a sexist, racist and xenophobic language, offensive to Portuguese and all the countries of the South, as was the case with Mr Dijsselloem. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u32	Once again, you have the floor of Mrs Cristian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u33	Mr President, Prime Minister, what about the health debts? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u34	You have the floor, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u35	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to health debts, the value of which has been regularised is 30 million and we are already having the same value this year, so there is no increase in the level of indebtedness, but there is a cycle of the level of indebtedness which, over the year, is changing. But the level we have is the same as what we had. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u36	You have the floor, Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u37	Mr President, Prime Minister, the level of debt growth last year was 30 million per month until, at the end of the year, there was a reduction. But this month — and I am quoting data that are public and are on the website — was only EUR 63 million in January. In fact, this has been evidenced by those who study and accompany this matter closely. On the issue of asset revaluation, I note that 181 companies have resorted to asset revaluation suggests what the CDS said: only few and large companies could benefit from this measure,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u38	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u39	...which contrasts with the 90 000 people who have resorted to PERES.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u40	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u41	Therefore, Prime Minister, I have to tell you that in this matter your policy is to give a tax ruling to large companies such as EDP, who assumes in their Report and Accounts - and I can ask you to distribute their page - which has benefited only EDP in EUR 174 million. Finally, Mr President, I would like to ask Mr Prime Minister a question on the recapitalisation of the Box.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u42	It has to be very fast, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u43	I will finish, Mr. President. On the recapitalisation of the Box, we follow the question of the counters, we follow the issue of redundancies—and the CDS has been active in this matter—but I would like to ask you a very specific question: it is in a position to tell us today whether what the Box will pay interest to private investors who are going to take or are taking the obligations is lower or greater than what was paid by the Box...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u44	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u45	...to all taxpayers, when did you refund the CoCo to the state? Can you give us a guarantee? That is what will allow us to analyze and understand whether your option is better or not than that which has been pursued in the previous recapitalisation. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u46	Finally, he arranged time to ask questions about the bank!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u47	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the turn of the PSD Parliamentary Group, so you have the floor to ask questions, Mr Luís Montenegro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u48	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, would like to begin by making an earlier point in this debate, on behalf of the PSD bench, and not by asking the Prime Minister any questions on this subject, but to make it clear that at the PSD bench, we are vehemently repudiating the statements of the President of the Eurogroup. They come from a socialist, as it is, the concrete case, or one responsible for another political family, or even a more moderate or more extremist protagonist, the truth is that this type of statement is inappropriate, unworthy and unacceptable.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u49	And he's an extremist!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u50	And it is in the form, because graces of bad taste do not combine with the dignity of office and institutions, and also in the content, because we do not accept that it is despised, that the effort of a people, in our case, of Portuguese and Portuguese, of the families of this country, who, with great sacrifice, have contributed to the recovery of the country, after the country has fallen into a very delicate financial situation. Mr. Prime Minister, Faces and Dear Colleagues, who does not respect this, neither in form nor in content, has only one way: it is to leave. Mr Prime Minister, the first question I would like to ask you has to do with the following: the Secretary of State for Education has launched an issue and, with it, has again launched confusion and instability in public school. The Secretary of State came to address the need for curricular reform, giving more time to some disciplines, to the detriment of, in particular, Portuguese and Mathematics. It is clear that the Prime Minister has already denied this intention of the Ministry of Education, in fact, until it is said that following a speech by the President of the Republic, but the question I want to ask him is direct. Mr. Prime Minister, what do you think? What is the Prime Minister's opinion? Is there a need for more curricular reform that brings instability to schools? We are going to abandon the strategy for strengthening nuclear disciplines, which has been so successful?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u51	What results? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u52	What is the Prime Minister's opinion? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u53	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u54	Mr. President, Mr. Luís Montenegro, I have said several times that schools need to breathe. Schools need peace and tranquillity, because over the last few years, successive curricular changes have been made. Only between 2011 and 2015 were seven changes in both goals and curricula. Never in four years has there been so much change in goals and curricula, as happened between 2011 and 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As you know, not all these changes have been peaceful and many have generated even strong opposition in school communities, in scientific societies, in teacher groupings, in society as a whole. Therefore, it is legitimate for many people in Portuguese society to be willing to correct quickly what they believe has been wrong. My opinion is that a mistake is not corrected with a new error and, therefore, if, in the last four years, there has been an excess of amendments, the worst mistake that could be made now is that there is an excess of amendments to correct the excess of amendments that have occurred. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So I understand — and that is what the Government's programme says — that it takes time to assess what has been done and that there is serious work to enable the necessary amendments and corrections to have sufficient consensus. What can and should be done is simply by respecting and valuing autonomy, giving schools greater flexibility in programme management so that they can be better adapted to the specific needs of the communities they must serve. This is my opinion, which is part of the Government's programme. But this must not be confused nor can it eliminate a work, which is being done and which must continue to be done with scientific societies, with associations that group teachers, with school communities, of evaluation of what exists and of the improvements that may be introduced in the future. however, everything must be done with serenity, calmness and so as to avoid repeating mistakes that have been made in the past. The worst thing is to make a new mistake to repair an error that was previously committed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u55	Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u56	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, the message you have now sent to Mr Secretary of State is an internal matter of the Government, I am not going to interfere with it. [[PSD applause.]] But Mr. Prime Minister has spoken in error — in mistakes, otherwise. So I would like to ask you, in particular: do you think a mistake is the substantial reinforcement of the time load of Portuguese, Mathematics and English and the reinforcement, though slight, of Geography, Science and History? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u57	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u58	Mr President, Mr Luís Montenegro, I believe we have a distinction in how to address this problem. Mr. Deputies have ideas made and I'm an open-minded person... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD laughter.]] ...and that you like to hear to decide better. My opinion on the matter, I must say, is absolutely irrelevant. What is absolutely essential is that we can lead to the end of a serious and solid assessment process, so that the program is not in the best interests of the Prime Minister, but in accordance with the country's needs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u59	Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u60	Mr President, Prime Minister, he was unable to clarify whether or not he considered what I told him to be a mistake. But let me tell you, for those who like to hear to decide, then what to say about their decisions, has hardly come to the government, to reverse the evaluation of teachers, the evaluation of students,... [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] ... your decisions to underestimate vocational education? There was no time, and there was no need to hear. Then decide one day for the other, come know why! Is that what you're talking about? But the noise of the left benches is capable of responding. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] However, Mr Prime Minister, let us return to the question of error. It is that the data they are known point out precisely in the opposite direction. All evaluations that have been performed and all tests conducted, including international, point to frankly positive results, due to the effect of strengthening the learning of Mathematics, Portuguese and Science. And you just don't see this who doesn't want it. Mr. Prime Minister, tell the country that there have been reforms in the area of education that have been well done, that have brought positive results to students, to the school environment itself and that it is important to preserve, unlike the fire created with the statements of its Secretary of State. [[PS protests.]] I would like to raise a second question: the PSD has long urged the Government to provide clarifications, information and explanations on the process of restructuring and recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box. The government and the parties that support it have always used a reaction, which is, moreover, very symptomatic: on the one hand, a complete opacity and lack of transparency, because we have never had answers to the questions; on the other hand, they have been diabolicizing the PSD position, meaning: « There they are harming the General Deposit Box, because, in the end, they do not want the deposit box to have public nature, they want to privatize the deposit box.”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u61	And you're talking about the Devil! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u62	Arguments cheated and then forgotten in the political practice of this management and of this government. But I'm sure today will be a new day in this house. It is that judging by what has been said in the public square, so they have said leaders of the Socialist Party but, above all, the Left Block and the CFP today, these parliamentary benches will not speak to the PSD, because they also have a great interest in having replies from the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u63	You remember every thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u64	So today I do not say that Mr César, Deputy Catarina Martins, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa turn to the PSD. They will also ask—that is what they have told the Portuguese—to the government, after all, what will be the criterion to close the counters of the General Deposit Box,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u65	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u66	...in this recapitalisation process. I think they'll do that, but in any case, cautiously, they won't repent and even talk to the PSD, instead of asking questions to the government,... [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] ... I would like to ask, Prime Minister, the following: does he agree with the President of the General Deposit Box when he says that there should not be a cashier counter in places where there are no bank counters? Do you agree or disagree? What is the criterion that will preside over this closure and what guidelines has the Government given to protect the public service of the General Deposit Box? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u67	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u68	Mr President, Mr Luís Montenegro, indeed, we have stressed how essential it is to have a public bank, 100 % public, properly capitalised and that it can fulfil its essential functions of stabilising our financial system, guaranteeing the savings of Portuguese families, and being an instrument in the service of the national economy. That is why we prioritized the capitalisation of the General Deposit Box, which went through a rigorous exercise in assessing its inequalities, capital needs and submitting a programme to the authorisation of the Directorate-General for Competition, of the European Union, with a view to capitalisation being authorised, without being considered State aid. We got that authorization. It was a surprise for many, who thought it was not possible, and it was possible. It was possible because it laid down very rigorous work on assessing capitalisation needs and on accepting the implementation of this capitalisation programme in accordance with rules that have to be market rules. First of all, this is because there is a share of the capitalisation guaranteed by the issue of non-convertible bonds in capital, a test necessary to demonstrate that an investor under normal conditions will do as the State, i.e. invest in the capital of the General Deposit Box.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u69	Ah, with that capitalization!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u70	Secondly, it is necessary to ensure that this capitalisation does not distort the rules of competition and that therefore the Box will have its capital strengthened, but with this it will not subsidize a poor management of the General Deposit Box. The first guarantee for this to happen is to have an independent management of the General Deposit Box, a professional management of the General Deposit Box. From the principle that this has been the aim of the Government and we think that this is essential, because it is good not only from the point of view of the European institutions but also from the point of view of the shareholders—who are all Portuguese—to know that the Box is managed with professionalism, as a company, and not in accordance with political criteria defined by the Government. That is why it is essential to ensure that the government will not interfere in the day-to-day life of the Box is to decide to whom it grants credit,... [[Now!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u71	... either to decide the staff policy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u72	Good!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u73	... whether to decide whether to open a counter on this land or whether to close a counter on that other land. It is up to us to ensure the strategic orientation of the Box, and that is what is contained in the restructuring plan, which effectively provides for a reduction in staff — without redundancies, by friendly terminations or by reforms, and also a restructuring of the network of counters, ensuring what is essential: that there will be no longer any General Deposit Box, which will no longer be accessible to the General Deposit Box, in particular with emigrant communities and that there will be no longer any General Deposit Box in external markets, where its presence for support to the Portuguese economy is essential. It is this strategic direction that we must ensure. We cannot interfere in the day-to-day life of the General Deposit Box. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u74	Mr Luís Montenegro continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u75	Mr President, Prime Minister, the management of the General Deposit Box is independent and professional, this and the previous ones. And strategic decisions come from the government, the government and the previous ones. What is not to accuse the previous governments when it comes to taking the strategic guidelines they have given and, when it comes to theirs, ignoring or running away from the issues, which are the responsibility of the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u76	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u77	Mr. Prime Minister spoke of the issue of obligations, which is an important issue of this plan, supported by the Socialist Party, the CFP and the Left Block. Moreover, the first issue of EUR 500 million is already underway and, of what is known, although there is no conversion to capital, as Mr Prime Minister has said now, the fact is that they are perpetual obligations and destined for institutional investors, those normally the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block designate « money»!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u78	It's not us, it's the economic environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u79	It is for these, by the way, that this operation is headed. But, Prime Minister, this operation also sets up a sort of permanent loan that these funds will make to the General Deposit Box, paid by an interest rate. The curiosity is that this is, as it were, a capitalization on the left — indeed, on the left.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u80	The one on the right we don't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u81	If it was done by us, if it was done by the PSD,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u82	But it wasn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u83	... all voices were raised, those who are now here shouting, [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] ... to say: "The General Deposit Box is currently being privatised". That's what you said. But now this is not what is going on; what is in progress is a « managed» privatization of the General Deposit Box, it is the new modality that the Socialist Party, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block support in this Parliament! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u84	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u85	Mr Prime Minister, regardless of the terms in which this recapitalisation programme was agreed and this restructuring process, there are questions to which Mr Prime Minister has to answer to the country. I want to ask you two questions. The first is the following: is it true that the place chosen for this operation is Luxembourg? Is that true or not? [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] If it is true, Mr. Prime Minister has an obligation to tell the country why,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u86	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u87	... why you chose the Luxembourg square to be able to drive this issue. The second question, which has already been put to you, is whether Mr. Prime Minister is in a position to say what is the interest rate applicable to these obligations.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u88	Mr President, your time has already been greatly exceeded.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u89	...and the way it was determined. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u90	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u91	Mr President, Mr Luís Montenegro, you are an illustrious jurist and therefore excuse me to explain the difference between obligations and actions. The issue of obligations is not a privatization... [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u92	... because it does not imply any alienation or participation in capital. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is true that they are perpetual obligations, but they can be amortized at the end of five years. As regards the interest rate — and I am taking advantage of an issue which has also been raised by Mrs Cristas, it is obviously the result of the market, because it is the market which will set the amount of the interest rate. However, I would like to stress the following: the strategic importance of this capitalisation exercise—which has already begun in January—is that the General Deposit Box will finally remain the level of capitalisation it needs. For many years it was known that he needed it, but he sought to disguise that need. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today there are no disguises, today there is clarity and, above all, we will have a properly capitalised Box. Finally, Mr President, I would just like to stress one thing to Mr Luís Montenegro: the results of international tests on the performance of our education system is something that must fill families, students, teachers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u93	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u94	...the school communities and all successive governments which, since the Eng. Roberto Carneiro and the approval in this Assembly of the Republic, unanimously, of the Basics of Education Act, have contributed so that these results could have been achieved. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u95	I appreciate your conclusion, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u96	There is something that should never be ignored: it is that the results in education are cumulative. And so important for the results was the expansion of compulsory education in Prof. Cavaco's governments, such as the launch of pre-school in Eng. Guterres, as every step that all governments successively have taken to improve the performance of our educational level. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u97	To put questions on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Júlia Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and government members in Portugal, exports from the agri-food sector rose to EUR 6, EUR 3 billion in 2016 and represent 11, 3 % of the total economy. This performance reflects a strong dynamics of agriculture, the correctness of this government's public policies and, above all, the determination of our farmers in the agri-food sector. For these results, the 20 new markets opened in 2016 for 62 products, with emphasis on the Chinese market, the largest world market, and which represents a huge opportunity for national products. For 2017, Mr. Minister for Agriculture has already set the goal of concluding the ongoing negotiations with 55 countries, corresponding to 199 different products of animal or plant origin. Mr Prime Minister, yesterday, 21 March, International Forest Day, the Council of Ministers approved a legislative package that meets the major challenges of the Portuguese forest, anchored in the three critical areas of the sector: ownership, management and forest management and defence in the areas of fire prevention and combat. It is our conviction that with this reform, the foundations are laid to reverse the decline trend of the forest sector, whose economic, social and environmental importance is fundamental for both the economic development of the country and for the establishment of the population in low-density territories, particularly within our country. in this process, which was public discussion and participatory legislation, the government demonstrates its political intention to ensure that forest reform is as consensual as possible, as they all want and defend. This reform — yes, this legislative package is a reform — contrary to what some say, it will be the beginning of the change that is intended for the forest sector. It will start a path for a sustainable forest based on the professionalization of forest management, creating new opportunities for producers and forest owners. Still, with better management, it will be possible to make other activities related to forest production profitable. With this reform, it will be possible to reverse the deforestation trend that has occurred in recent decades. The investment capacity of forest owners and producers will increase in view of the range of tax benefits available and the new forms of cluster management will contribute to the reduction of under-utilisation areas. We want to share and hear you, Mr. Prime Minister, not only about this reform, but also about one of our concerns: the forest register. This is a chronic structural error, often referred to as one of the main problems of the lack of forest and territorial planning and which the Government now wants to resolve once and for all. Former governments put forward proposals, but they hesitated at the time of making progress and did not resolve them. Mr Prime Minister, this reform, or, better, some of the diplomas of this reform will still go an important path in this House. We expect an open political debate, with respect to the existing natural differences, to maintain the usual consensus that the forest has had in this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u99	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u100	Mr President, Mrs Júlia Rodrigues, within the framework of our National Reform Programme, the appreciation of the territory is one of the fundamental pillars and one of the most important elements for the enhancement of our territory is the forest. The forest must be a great source of wealth, it cannot be a threat to the security of people and goods. Unfortunately, in recent years, we have only looked and heard about the forest when the recurring tragedy hits the fires in the summer. We must now hear about the forest 365 days a year, not because of its negative news, but because of what it contributes to the establishment of populations, to the creation of wealth and employment and to the enhancement of our territory. That is what we want to do with this forest reform. It is a structural reform, because it is aimed at changing the forest structure. It is not, as some may have the illusion, a reform to be approved by the end of this legislative session to prevent fires in the summer. Don't! It's a reform to solve secular problems in our forest. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The first problem is registration. Today it is consensual that what constitutes the greatest threat to the forest is the result of desertification, demographic change, the life and economic usefulness of the forest has been decreasing for the generality of its owners. We have a country in which 90% of the forest is private, much of it under mini-funding and where, therefore, the profitability of its economic recovery is small, and this has led to its abandonment. That is why the identification of the registration is essential. The register is absolutely strategic for us to create foundations for the economic enhancement of the forest. The set of diplomas in this respect — most of them will come to the Assembly of the Republic — are intended, on the one hand, to strengthen forest intervention areas for the free association between forest producers who want to develop and value their forest together. On the other hand, it aims to create forest management entities of a very different nature, cooperative or corporate nature, so that we can have a more efficient economic use of the forest; a tax benefit package with a view to encouraging investment in the forest and also its use for other uses, in particular for its energy recovery through biomass plants. Our conviction is that only a forest that is a solid economic base attracts and sets populations, enables them to maintain them, strengthens their resilience to the risk of fire. This is therefore a reform which must have the broadest possible consensus in this House of the Republic. We know that these are difficult choices, and it is not by chance, nor by will, that almost two centuries ago the registration is stopped north of the Tagus. It's not by chance, it's because we know it's difficult. We know that it is difficult to deal with the limitations that the minifundio and the property structure place in the profitability of the investment in the maintenance of the forest, but we need to find a way to do in dialogue with the populations, with the owners, explaining and mobilizing people to understand that investing in the forest is investing in the profitability and appreciation of their own territory. That is why we have to give the local authorities a new role. No one takes better care of our home than we and no one takes better care of their territory than each authority, because the territory is the home of each of the local authorities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, that is why we need to have a planning framework that will allow as much decentralization as possible with the greatest technical rigour possible. Forest planning plans, whose technical training requires the mobilisation of the best of knowledge and rigor and which do not benefit more or less from proximity, must be entrusted to the central authorities of the State, in particular to the Institute for Conservation of Nature and Forests ( IUCN ). But their application and monitoring on the ground gain in everything in proximity and have everything to lose with distance. Whoever is on each land, whether in the municipality or in the parish, is necessarily in a better position to monitor than those in Lisbon or in a regional direction, even if it is in a capital of one of the regions. That is why we must be able to take advantage of what is the most valuable result of the concentration of technical knowledge in an institute such as the Institute for Conservation of Nature and Forests, and at the same time the demultiplication capacity that local authorities have to monitor and, also, to be able to mobilize those who have to be the first defenders of the forest, which are the inhabitants of the territory. We cannot continue to have the forest to be seen as an enemy of the people, on the contrary we want it to be a dear wealth and therefore defended and protected by the people. That is the challenge that all of us, together, must be able to win. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u101	Also on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Gabriela Canavilhas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u102	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, it was not enough to have a certain climate of animosity to which we have witnessed whenever the opposition is seen in the face of official data indicating the success of socialist governance; it was also not enough a certain defeatist attitude of the PSD every time the indicators show to the Portuguese, and also to Europe, that the revenues of punitive austerity and that ideological castration that was imposed on the social-democracy were not, after all, the only way to the recovery of the crisis; this permanent negative shadow was no longer enough to contrast with the day-to-day much more peaceful, serene and quiet Portuguese, when a new front emerges in the political game, but this time between the parties on the right. As the people say, and requesting permission from Jerome Martins to use a style figure...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u103	Jerome of Sousa! Jerome Martins has more money! [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u104	Excuse me, Jerome de Sousa! As I said, using a style figure that is associated with Jerome of Sousa — usually, he uses, and very well, these popular sayings — « when they fight the checkers, the truths are discovered». For the country, this comic tale had only one merit: it allowed to lift the tip of the sheet that so far hid the way in which the fate of the Portuguese financial system was decided in the time of the previous government. I speak, Mr Prime Minister, of the resolution of BES, of the accumulated decapitalization of the General Deposit Box and of the breakdown of BANIF. It was thus, in this new water separation front on the right, that we discovered the lightness, levancy and total deresponsibility with which, at the highest level, decisions were made involving the banking system with multiple negative consequences for Portugal. It was a game of deception, of push, of hiding, of not wanting to know and of signing below, provided the result, i.e., the clean output of the troika program was properly staged. The statement by Dr. Assumption Cristas on the ignorance of the Council of Ministers regarding the bank's disqualification in that period is, let me tell you, very grave. It checks whether the CDS was completely out of the question of the financial system or not concerned with defending Portuguese, as was its obligation. But we don't fear for Dr. Cristos. Surprisingly, and in spite of this attitude that so much undermines the image of the Government of Dr. Passos Coelho, the Brazilian PSD coordinator announces that it is indifferent to him who wins the City Hall of Lisbon, whether it is the CDS or the PSD! It's the same for him! [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is therefore the view we have in the opposition: a disconcerting that sometimes hardens irrationality. It is still in this spirit that we have heard of « Carochinha’s stories ». What « carochinha stories» Dr. Passos Coelho? Does it refer to the rise of confidence indicators, to over 100 000 net jobs created this year and a half, including more than 80 000 with unfinished contracts, the lowest rate for eight years? Or the fall of 15, 3 % of registered members of the PSI in February, the largest homologous retreat since 1989? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u105	Calling "carochinha's stories" to the effort to rehabilitate the economy and strengthen key sectors in the country does not seem serious to us. And, you know, it doesn't convince anyone anymore! Dom Quixote also invests against mills and flocks of sheep, with Dulcineia in mind, of lance in riste. After confirming that they were just mills, I would still apologize that there was a magician who had invented the mills. The Portuguese already know that there were other ‘carochinha’ stories, that of ‘clean exit’ and that of ‘clean exit’. But that's past. We are going to talk about the future: political stability, which, like the economic and social climate, marks the period we have lived through; the banking system, which is being gradually resolved. And within a month, the recapitalisation of the Box will be completed, a very successful operation. We are also faced with the finding that the PSD voted against this recapitalisation and that the CDS abstained. Therefore, it is incomprehensible to us how a process that is bearing good fruit and that solves the General Deposit Box problem did not count on right-hand support in this Chamber. But proximity, Prime Minister, is the key to true democracy, as you have often said. The economic decentralization of the Public Administration will constitute one of the deepest reforms of our democratic system, with great significance in the relationship of citizens with political power and with public power. What are the Government's expectations for the diploma on the decentralization of the public administration that is under discussion? And I also enjoyed listening to the government's guarantee that all the councils will have a counter at the General Deposit Box.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u106	He didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u107	I would like to tell you that the Socialist Party fully defends this possibility that we can count on the presence of a close-up counter in each municipality, because it is a public service of the General Deposit Box. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u108	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u109	Mr President, Mrs Gabriela Canavilhas, will understand that with regard to the first part of her speech, in which she summarized some statements that we had known in recent weeks of former government members about how the former Government managed the financial system issue, I do not make any comment. Besides, quoting not Mr. Jerónimo de Sousa, but an old ad, as a well-known Portuguese artist would say, "words for what? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” It is that there are things that speak for you and that say everything that was to be said about this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As far as decentralization is concerned, we have stressed that decentralization is the cornerstone of state reform. Portugal is one of the most centralised countries in Europe, which is, of course, measured by being the second or third country where local authorities are less involved in all public revenue. And if we compare the development rates of different countries with the level of decentralization, we find that there is a very clear reverse relationship: the most developed are the most decentralized and the least developed are the most centralized. We have a goal set out in the National Reform Programme, that in 10 years we converge with the European average of participation by local authorities in the level of public revenue. It's not enough, obviously, transferring revenue. Revenue is a tool for the exercise of tasks and competences. And what we believe is that there are a number of tasks and competences that will be better exercised, more efficiently, if exercised by the parish or municipalities than if exercised by the state. Some will gain efficiency by being exercised through inter-municipal communities; others, perhaps, will gain more efficiency by being exercised at the level of metropolitan areas; others may, in the future, be exercised with advantage at the regional level. But at the moment, the priority we have is that the authors who are being elected by the Portuguese in the autumn of this year are already elected with a new framework of competences and defined local finances so that, during the next term of office, we can make a new and significant leap forward in the degree of decentralization of the country...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u110	You want to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u111	... and that this is, in fact, the best way of honoring and properly paying tribute to what, consensually, all the benches say is indisputably a two greatest gains of our democratic regime, which was the 40 years of democratic local power, celebrated last December.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u112	You have to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u113	The best way to honor these 40 years of local democratic power is to give a vote of confidence, in the next 40 years, to the local authorities in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u114	The Parliamentary Group of the Left Block follows. Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u115	Mr President, if I may, at the time of this 15-year debate, there has been an attack on the British Parliament. Other parliaments have already expressed their solidarity. I am sure that we will also have the opportunity to express the regret and solidarity of all the benches, but I do not want to fail to record this note of concern. Mr Prime Minister, the Government has been very well in stating clearly that Dijsselbloem is not in a position to continue as President of the Eurogroup. That's what I needed to be said, and that's what has to be done. Dijsselbloem must be away as soon as possible. The statements he made are preconceived and insulting, addressed to the countries of the South and, therefore, also to our country, or to any other country. We do not accept prejudice, nor hate policy in Europe, nor anywhere else. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr. Prime Minister, while it is true that insulting statements and tacans like those of Dijsselbloem there are many, I think it is particularly worrying that there really exists a hate platform in Europe which thinks that something is gained when the countries of the South attack. And more problematic is to understand that this reasoning has echoes, even in our country. So if Dijsselbloen offends us, we must understand that his speech or that kind of thought is present in many of the decisions that are taken and in many of the European institutions. We must have this conscience and we must combat this kind of speech and prejudice against the countries of the South and against our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u116	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u117	Mr. Prime Minister, the ECB's ( European Central Bank ) report owes this reasoning. Does the ECB report say that you are concerned about our country because of the results of economic policy? No, because the country has not followed the recommendations of the European Commission! But does the ECB have anything to do with the recommendations of the European Commission? Nothing! Does the ECB have any role in the European Commission? None! So why does the ECB come to say things about which he should not say anything? Because you can! And because humiliating the countries of the South is now European policy in the Eurogroup, the European Commission and the ECB. And that's what we can't accept. [[Congratulations from BE.]] That is why, Prime Minister, we cannot want to be good students of such policies that only humiliate our country and destroy democracies in the various countries of the European Union. I wanted to leave you two questions about the recapitalisation of the Box, telling you very clearly that we see with concern that we are told that we or do everything DG Comp wants, or then we will be wrong. We already know that there are no good advice from there—they have not come so far. The first question has to do with the Box counters. Paulo Macedo said: « No one asks the General Deposit Box to stay in all places where the other banks do not want to stay ». And the PSD today is even worried about closing counters? Oh, my God! See there, the party that closed 108 balconies from the Box! Open... [[Congratulations from BE.]] But we understand: is there any headquarters where there is no bank, the General Deposit Box would be damaged by being there? It wouldn't, of course. Therefore, the question is another: it is if the General Deposit Box will leave city halls so that the privates will stay operating and remain with more market share. And what we cannot accept, even if DG Comp liked, is to lower the General Deposit Box to do the favor of the private. The Left Block believes that this would be disastrous. And here we will be to defend, as always, the process of public recapitalization of the Box, but also prevent that there are no redundancies and that the Box serves the public interest, that is, serves the whole of the national territory. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u118	Mr. Prime Minister, there is another question I want to ask you about perpetual obligations. The problem has already been raised here, and the Prime Minister has answered that they are obligations which will have market interest. But we understand that the Box is issuing EUR 930 million in these perpetual bonds with interest of 10 % or close to 10 %, because that is what the market is determining. Which means that by a decision of DG Comp, not of our country, not of the interest of Box, the General Deposit Box, the public bank, will lose almost EUR 100 million per year. And this is unacceptable! The question that the Left Block has to ask is whether the Government will accept a restructuring of the Box designed by DG Comp, which attacks the public bank, or whether, on the contrary, this restructuring has to be done in the molds in which the Box and the public interest are defended. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u119	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u120	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, I begin by answering the question relating to Box and then I will answer that of Mr Dijsselbloem. As for Box, the Government will always defend the public interest, even in the General Deposit Box, because that is what it has to defend. And if, one day, there is a contradiction between the interest of the Box and the public interest, the government will have to be on its side, which is that of the public interest. All companies that are on the market and have a relevant position are subject to the jurisdiction of DG Comp. We therefore negotiated with the Directorate-General for Competition the conditions under which capitalisation could be authorised without being considered State aid. And we didn't accept everything that DG Comp wanted. For example, in the New Bank's sales process, the process has not yet closed because the negotiation process with DG Comp is not yet closed. I don't want anyone, much less a person I'm a friend of, who has to negotiate with DG Comp. But we must negotiate according to what is the national interest. And in this particular case the national interest is that the General Deposit Box is not a small bank, but is an accessible, universally covered national bank, which takes into account the Portuguese diaspora, which takes into account the presence that must be an arm of the internationalisation of the Portuguese economy. We believe that the restructuring plan that has been approved, both economically and socially, meets these needs. And the country's coverage is secure. I am not going to answer the question of whether any council where a counter could be dispensed in its headquarters, will not give any ideas. Then I say in particular a good example of a municipality where other locations of this municipality are more important than the headquarters itself. Therefore, what we have to have is a criterion for the General Deposit Box to be present where it is essential that it is present to ensure banking services and to be able to be an effective competitive entity on the market and not merely passive and absent, leaving the market for other competitors. We must therefore have a proactive position. with regard to the issue of Europe, I think that this statement by Mr Dijsselbloem is, in fact, particularly illustrative of something which I have insisted on today is the most serious factor, the biggest threat to the European Union, which is the split between cultures, which has been accentuated in both a East-West dimension and a North-South dimension. And if someone thought that the wounds of the 2008 - 2011 crisis were overcome, there are always those who remind us that, unfortunately, these wounds are not overcome. That is why we need someone in the Presidency of the Eurogroup who is an engine and catalyst for a unit around Economic and Monetary Union and which will make it possible to contribute positively to stabilize and save the euro. With Dijsselbloems in front of the Eurogroup, the euro is doomed. Only an economic and monetary union that ensures economic convergence guarantees stability and only by ensuring stability can we ensure the sustainability of this European project's achievement, which was to have a single currency. This kind of prejudice is based, in this case, on sexist, racist and xenophobic criteria. But there are other prejudices, notably ideological prejudices, which appear in many reports, such as one mentioned above, not that of the ECB, but that of the services themselves of the European Commission with regard to the effects of the increase in the national minimum wage in Portugal. In a year when the economy has grown, employment has grown, our companies have gained market share, exports have increased, it has been said that the increase in national minimum wage is a threat to the competitiveness of our economy is strictly not to realize what is happening in Portugal and simply want to act in accordance with an ideological cartilage, regardless of the reality to lie. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We must, in fact, be firm against all prejudices, and also against such prejudices. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u121	Mrs Catarina Martins, of the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u122	Mr President, the issue of optimism with regard to the future of the euro would certainly give another debate. But, Prime Minister, I think that no grant to European institutions or any sacrifice in the General Deposit Box or in any other matter will bring any peace or kindness to these institutions with our country. What we have to do is defend Portugal from this European crime. Mr Prime Minister, this certainly leads us to complicated matters, such as the need for the restructuring of public debt. We will go there in a while, but there are two restructurings of private debts happening right now in our country about which I need to ask you questions. The first relates to PERES ( Special State Debt Reduction Programme ). The government accepted that all companies had access to PERES, and we saw companies such as Amorim, Jerónimo Martins and EDP ( Energies of Portugal ) reduce payments due to the tax thanks to PERES. It is no longer complicated, in a country that pays the highest energy prices and with a company that pays its President more than 5000 € every day that passes, to explain that EDP can have a pardon of EUR 20 million in PERES. We have already asked the Minister of Finance how much the companies of the PSI 20 (Portuguese Stock Index) have restructured their tax debt with PERES. But the question I want to ask you is also whether you think the government should have restricted PERES to small companies in difficulty. Very briefly, Mr President, I leave a second question to Mr Prime Minister. Banks owed to the Resolution Fund were to pay their debt in two years, then to three and already to 30. The interest you are going to pay for that debt has already fallen and the banks are going to pay interest as if the loan was five years old for a loan which is actually 30 years old.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u123	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u124	I conclude, Mr. President. This means that the bank pays the State half of the interest paid by the State to be indebted: the banks will pay around 2 % and the State will pay more than 4 %. This means that restructuring the debt of private banks to the State can cost the country EUR 100 million. The question I ask you is if you do not think that the restructuring of private banks' debts is starting to become very expensive in our country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u125	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u126	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, whether we like it or not, the financial system has a central role in the economies, and what we have been able to see since 2008 is that all the crises in the financial system are multiplying in a devastating way on businesses and families. Therefore, crisis in the financial system means crisis in the economic fabric, it means unemployment, it means loss of income of families. We also suffer, from 2008 here, with wrong policies, which have aggravated the situation, in addition to a very severe loss of income and the destruction of economic value at the expense of the financial system crisis, which began in the United States, crossed the Atlantic and spread to Europe, and then, more strongly, hit the weakest countries in the European framework. If there is a lesson that I think we all have taken is that strengthening the financial system is not strengthening the banks, it is creating conditions for having a sustainable economic recovery, so that we can recover the incomes of families, we can create jobs and we can grow again. Today, no one has any doubt that, consciously or unconsciously, deliberately or not, our Adjustment Programme has ignored the reality of the financial system and has allowed banks that have been settled in the meantime if they could have given the luxury of not using funds made available for their own capitalisation. And today, if there is a factor that differs the pace at which we are growing from the rate at which, for example, the Spanish economy is growing, it is largely explained by the fact that Spain has started its programme to solve the banking problem, while Portugal has until now postponed the need to solve the banking problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u127	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u128	I shall now conclude, Mr President. The banking problem is not the problem of banks and much less the problem of bank shareholders, it is a systemic problem for the economy as a whole. The decisions we had to make throughout this year — and they have been enough — in order to create the best institutional framework for the stabilization of our financial system, were perhaps difficult, but were essential.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u129	Mr. Prime Minister, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u130	We have made a positive contribution to two of the private banks that were in need of capitalisation today, the General Deposit Box can now be completing its capitalisation programme and we have conditions for successfully negotiating the alienation of the New Bank. Was it hard work? Did you require questionable measures? Of course! But we would certainly be worse if we had not intervened in time to allow the financial system to be today, despite everything, in the situation in which it is, quite different from the one in which it was a year ago. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u131	On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, first of all, would like to leave a word of solidarity from the CFP bank in relation to the dramatic events that took place in London today. Regardless of a deeper position, we wanted to express our solidarity briefly. Mr. Prime Minister, I would also like to express our repudiation for the insolent statements by the President of the Eurogroup on the countries of southern Europe, which includes Portugal. It is a solemn, xenophobic statement of whom it is believed to be the owner of Europe and of the institutions, of whom it argues that there is only one legitimate political solution, that of them, that of the directory led by Germany, to which Mr Dijsselbloem serves. last week, it was Mr Schäuble signing with the new designated rescue aggression programme ; yesterday, it was the ECB making new sanctions threats to Portugal, on behalf of the macroeconomic imbalance procedure ; yesterday, it was the time of the President of the Eurogroup, with these wordboxes. The owners of the European Union only recognize and accept those who submit to their view of Europe and capital and the selfish interests they represent. What this confirms, from our point of view, is the need for Portugal to affirm a policy of defence of national interest, breaking with the current framework of taxes and constraints. [[PCP applause.]] As for the Box, which has already been sufficiently debated here, I believe that clarification on the issue of financing and recapitalisation has been important. The Prime Minister's statement that this debt cannot be converted into private equity capital of the Box is important because, in particular, he refutes an accusation by Mr. Passos Coelho, whose Government, PSD / CDS, has made insufficient recapitalisation and has created such a system of the CoCo(conversionable bond quota), which ultimately would allow for conversion into private capital in shares. And now comes to accuse the PS, the PCP, the Left Block and the Greens of being, after all, in favor of privatization? Oh, my God! This clarification is important, because someone is deceiving someone, and I think it is Mr. Steps Rabbit.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u133	Exactly! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u134	Another issue that I consider important is related to a statement made here by Mr Luís Montenegro. Who was to say that the Government which closed 109 agencies — it was not 108, Mrs Catarina Martins,... [[BE's laughs.]] ...reducing 2300 jobs in the General Deposit Box, do you now have moral to come to say that the jobs are threatened? Better late than never! I am glad that the PSD is as concerned as we are about the possibility of closure of agencies, with the consequences that this would cause. I believe that this issue is so much more important, because suddenly it can be thought that the problems of the Box reside in the number of counters and the number of workers. What led to this difficult situation of the General Deposit Box was neither the workers nor the various cashier counters that existed. For the truth is that these problems, these difficulties arise in the way the credit portfolio was managed, in the credits granted to friends without any guarantees, in ruinous business.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u135	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u136	This has to be avoided, it is not the jobs that have to be reduced! [[PCP applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, one issue that we consider to be of great importance is the need to value workers at work and in reform, which has been a central concern that we have insisted on. On the long-term contribution careers, the CFP has put forward proposals and we have insisted on successive 15-year debates and we have found, on the part of the Prime Minister, a willingness and sensitivity to consider the problem. When we make a commitment to certain things, we have to realize and I believe that this realization was important, taking into account the just expectations created for those who have worked throughout their lives and have the right to reform throughout their lives. On another important battle, the fight against precariousness in the public and private sectors, precariousness must be combated and eradicated. They have already been approved — and are in progress — measures to combat precariousness in public administration. It is important to ensure the integration of all workers who respond to the permanent needs of schools, hospitals, universities, IEFP ( Institute for Employment and Vocational Training ), RTP, authorities and the business sector of the State. Also in the private sector, precariousness marks the day by day of many thousands of workers in our country. It is the abuse of long-term contracts, temporary work, outsourcings, false green receipts, internships and I know that more... The PCP presented a proposal that will be discussed next Friday so that the final decisions of the ACT (Working Conditions Authority) for the conversion of the false green receipt...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u137	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u138	... or other precarious work in a contract of work without term may have the nature of an executive title, running the decision automatically. It is a proposal that we consider important, so we would also like to hear your opinion and your contribution. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u139	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u140	Mr President, Mr Jerome de Sousa, first of all it is very clear: it was not the officials of the General Deposit Box who were responsible for the problems of the General Deposit Box. Among the international crisis, errors in credit policy and unacceptable postponement of problem resolution, the situation we have inherited has been inherited. And now we have to solve, because if we want to have the essential, which is that we have a 100 % public bank capable of operating on the market, capable of guaranteeing the savings of families, of being an instrument of saving the Portuguese economy, of having a stabilization effect of the financial system as a whole, we cannot waste this opportunity of having the General Deposit Box properly capitalised. That is what we are working on, that is what we trust, and that, in my view, will be a great success in the turn of economic policy which the present majority has achieved in introducing into our country. With regard to long careers, as in these debates we have systematically reaffirmed, this is a priority. I believe that in the joint work of the Government with the benches — and in particular with the PCP — the Minister of Labour has already had the opportunity to outline the general features of the initiatives that the Government will present. Mr Minister of Labour is, at this very moment, in the Social Dialogue Council, presenting the programme and the framework that we have to allow them to respond in a fair way to the most sacrificed generation that the country has had, which was the generation that needed - it was often obliged - to start work under conditions that we would consider unacceptable today, such as child labour, being the same generation that, after long careers and long careers, is faced with revisions of the social security framework. Thus, they are twice penalized: the penalty that they suffered at the beginning of their working life is a second penalty at the end of their active life. It is this injustice that needs to be corrected, and we are also aware that we are correcting something that is unrepeatable in the future, because, fortunately, today, no one will need to start working with the age at which many of these people have been forced to do so. It is something we must honor, indeed, we have this duty, and we will do so in accordance with the work we have done together. with regard to precariousness, and as expected, next week, the Government will present to the Assembly of the Republic a proposal for a law that will frame the mechanisms of response to the need to combat precariousness in the public sector, in accordance with a model that, based on the identification of effective and permanent needs, enables it to have an agile system of recognition of elements of labour which must become real working bonds, duly entitled, ensuring the integration into their respective frameworks to all those who have that right. This is a work that must also be accompanied in the private sector and it is with interest that we will follow the debate that will take place in this House of the Republic — I believe Friday — of the initiative of the Communist Party. We believe that the matter deserves due consideration because, in many cases, judicial mediation may not be justified in view of the administrative verification of the existence of work contracts disguised in other contractual ways. There are various ways we can do it. I do not want to say that this is necessarily the way they propose, but we see this debate as positive. That is why we will follow-CL with interest and we would like it to be deepened in this House of the Republic, not only in plenary but also in committee, in order to be able to come up with the best solution to ensure something essential: the greatest possible solidarity in the recognition of workers' rights and the fight against precariousness. As I have said, combating precariousness is not only a question of labour law, it has to do with not only the dignity of the human person in the workplace but also with the incentive that must be given to businesses to improve their productivity, by improving the qualification of their human resources, which is obviously incompatible with precarious relations. Therefore, combating precariousness is in the interests of itself, it is in the interests of society and it is even in the interests of the company itself. And, in order to definitely break with the development model based on low wages, on the destruction of rights and on precariousness, this fight must always be a priority in order to affirm a new model of development that bets on qualification and innovation as factors of competitiveness. It is this model that we have to build and all that are pretexts to postpone the effort that it requires is to waste time on the effort that we have to make to achieve a new model of development. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u141	To ask questions, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia from The Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u142	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to begin by saying that, contrary to what the PSD has revealed, defending things or expressing its concerns on the basis of its own interests, doing one thing when it is in the government and another when it is in the opposition, The Greens, if, according to their usual consistency, expressed concern when the PSD/CDS Government closed counters of the General Deposit Box, should express the same concern to the Government of the Socialist Party when the closure of the General Deposit Box is expected. The question that must be asked by the Prime Minister is the following: what do you think will result in, in practice, the closure of the counters? Does the General Deposit Box lose space in the national territory? Does it give space to other banks to earn customers and businesses in the national territory? Where do other banks come from? I need Mr. Prime Minister to answer one question, which I have already had the opportunity to ask in another debate, and whose answer I remember well: Mr. Prime Minister guarantees that there will be no layoffs in the General Deposit Box?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u143	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u144	Mr President, Member of Parliament, the plan which was presented to the Government, as an shareholder, is a plan that does not provide for dismissals, provides for a reduction in the number of effectives over a period of two ways: reforms not replaced by new contracts and a programme for negotiation of terminations by mutual agreement. Trade unions themselves have indicated that they know that there are officials who are interested in terminate their contract by negotiation with the General Deposit Box. [[That's not true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u145	Therefore, there will be no collective dismissals and involuntary dismissals. What will be, yes, is a reduction in staff, based on the reform programme and on a friendly termination negotiation programme. This is what will be in the General Deposit Box.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u146	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u147	I record Mr Prime Minister's words, which I really hope will come true and I reaffirm the idea that the Greens defend a more robust General Deposit Box and not a smaller General Deposit Box in the national territory. Mr Prime Minister, I would also like to say here, on behalf of the Greens, that the words of the President of the Eurogroup were absolutely gross and insulting to the Portuguese people and other peoples in southern Europe, and I believe that the minimum one can be asked to resign is indeed the fact that he deserves that name. I must also remember, eventually so that we all remember, that it was not the first to insult the Portuguese people and other peoples in the south. Do you remember that Mrs. Merkel came to say that the Portuguese had an extra vacation and were retiring too early? It was also an insult, Prime Minister. Do you remember the German Minister Schäuble saying that the southern countries were envious? And with regard to Portugal, you are always talking about the « papão» of a new ransom! This is absolutely unqualifying and demonstrative of Europe which is in sight, and which is not now, Mr Prime Minister! It was in fact Europe that was building against the peoples and where these European elites have no regard for anything or for anyone other than their own navel. This is, in fact, worrying. Mr. Prime Minister, even to finish — and because we talked here about the matter of the forest — I would like to reaffirm the importance of the force the Greens have made with the Government of the Socialist Party in order to stop the expansion of the eucalyptus in Portugal. I think it is very important for us to create a more resilient forest, which is something that is not done one day at a time, but we need to take steps in this direction. Mr Prime Minister, let me still express the Greens' concern about this idea that the Government now wants to'strike' everything for the authorities. Everything goes to the authorities! The state almost ceases to be a state, deresponsibility of immense things to pass them on to the authorities. And, Prime Minister, respect for the authorities is also respect for each one's own competence.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u148	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u149	I'm done now, Mr. President. I ask you, Prime Minister: if the State does not have the means of monitoring the forest, how will it ensure that the authorities have them? Mr Prime Minister, respect is also due to the perception of each individual's competences. [[Applause from The Greens and Members of the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u150	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u151	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, indeed in the programme and in all the approved legislation one of the points of our negotiation is to stop the expansion of the area of eucalyptus plantation, which is essential for us to have a better orderly forest, with a set of more resilient arboreal species, which allow for an ordering of the mosaic of the forest with an effect that prevents the expansion of fires and a more sustainable and intelligent management of our forest. Decentralisation does not mean passing everything to local authorities; it means passing what local authorities can do best and keeping in the state what the state can do best. In addition, I gave the example of the Institute for Conservation of Nature and Forests, which, given its technical qualification, is insufficient to be decentralised. It is worth focusing this competence on the definition of forest planning plans, but who is closest, obviously, more conditions to see what happens there than who is far away. That is why mobilizing authorities strengthens this capacity. I don't want to say that the state has abandoned supervision. Ten years ago, on May 3, the Republican National Guard saw its intervention, protection and relief group as a first intervention unit in the fight against forest fires, but also surveillance and monitoring on the ground of what is happening in the forest. It is also now 10 years ago that it was integrated into the GNR the old body of forest guards, so that they could have a more framed, more supported action, with better synergy and to produce better results. That is why we must adopt the principle of subsidiarity. We must have the powers assigned to the entity which, in each case, is in the best possible condition.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u152	Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u153	This is the rule we have and it is with this rule that we will develop the decentralization programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u154	To conclude the debate, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u155	Mr President, Prime Minister : The largest oncological statistics base in Portugal, and one of the largest in Europe, highlighted a few days ago an increase in cancer cases, unequivocally related to poor eating habits, which has come to reaffirm what the World Health Organization has been saying and emphasizing. last week, the results of the national food survey were known, whose extensive research indicates, among other alerts, that Portuguese people are seriously at risk of health resulting from excessive consumption of meat. Since 1980, health authorities have not had as much data on food practices. in these areas, the Government has invested in specific programmes or even awareness campaigns, such as in cases of excessive consumption of sugar, salt, or even alcohol and tobacco. In addition to dissuasive campaigns, these products with special consumption taxes are also taxed. But in the meat sector, what have you done? Production has been strongly supported, financed lines with public money and benefited from the sector with various tax exemptions. We are faced with a serious public health problem and which aggravates the unsustainability of the National Health Service. All this with the financial and institutional sponsorship of the State. Is it not the function of the State to inform and protect its citizens? What interests is the State serving? The health and well-being of people or the profit of highly polluting and toxic livestock industries? Mr Prime Minister, with so much evidence, credible and conclusive national and international studies and data, when will we have, in this matter, a management of public money that defends the best interests of the citizens and the needs of the country?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u156	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u157	Mr President, Mr André Silva, let us start by where we agree and then finish where we disagree, we will follow this order. We agree with the following: today we know that the best contribution we can make to the quality of health of Portuguese has to do with the correction of life habits. The generality of the most serious diseases and which have a higher prevalence are associated with lifestyles, including consumption habits, whether tobacco consumption, or poor eating habits. A quality diet is the first condition to have quality health and, therefore, we have to invest in improving the quality of the diet food. Now, this has to do with the income of families, but it also has to do with the pedagogical work along with these. I believe particularly in the importance of, through school meals, we actively contribute to a correction of the eating habits of Portuguese families. in this respect we agree. however, this effort is not incompatible with supporting an economic activity of the greatest importance for the agricultural sector as a whole, which is livestock. In fact, the diet should be diversified according to each individual's choice — because it respects those who have other choices — and should or may also include meat consumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u158	So what?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u159	And if it is important for our public finances and for our society to have quality health and a robust National Health Service, it is also no less important for our society to have strong, productive, diversified agriculture and also with a properly sustainable livestock.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u160	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u161	And support for livestock is not incompatible with the pedagogical work that we should do, in order to improve food quality, support for plant production, increased consumption of fresh ones, encouragement for increased fish consumption, the development of aquaculture, as an essential condition for us to have an ever-increasingly high-quality diet. Thank you very much for your food tolerance, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-22.u162	Mr. Prime Minister, it was food tolerance and not food. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus come to the end of our agenda today. The next plenary session will take place tomorrow, Thursday, at 3 p.m. and will have the following agenda: the first item will be an urgent debate required by the CFP Parliamentary Group on public debt. in the second point, the CL will be assessed on draft resolution Nos 677/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government that the unemployment allowance may not be less than the IAS ( indexing of social support ) ( PS ) together with generally the projects of lein. 382 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Eliminates the reduction of 10 % to the amount of unemployment allowance after 180 days of concession ( BE) and 398 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Renouncing 10 % of the amount of unemployment benefit after 180 days of its grant( 2 ). the amendment to Decree-Law No 220 / 2006 of 3 November ( PCP ) and draft resolution No 762 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop a specific qualification programme for long-term unemployed 45 years of age ( PSD ). in the third point, the joint assessment of draft resolutions Nos 596 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government comply with Law No 65 / 2015 of 3 July and establish the year 2017 / 2018 as a date to extend the universality of pre-school education for children 3 years of age ( PSD ), 352 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) — proposes the universalization of pre-school education from three years of age ( PCP ) and 690 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the universality of pre-school education at the age of 3 be achieved by 2019 and the requirement at the age of 5 ( CDS-PP ). in the fourth point, the draft resolutions 669 / XIII ( 2 ) will be discussed together. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government grant a new period of temporary exemption from payment of social security contributions to milk producers ( CDS-PP ), 667 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government partially exempt the payment of social security contributions to producers of cow's raw milk ( PSD ), 757 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government support for national dairy production, the fight against speculation of large distribution and the conciliation of positions for the replacement of a regulatory regime ( CFP ) and 761 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create the partial dispensation of the payment of contributions to the social security of dairy producers ( PS ). There is nothing more to be dealt with, and I congratulate Mr Prime Minister and the other members of the government, as well as the Members of the Government. Ladies and gentlemen. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 1 minute.]]
