ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] I ask the authorities to open the gates of the galleries. Before we begin the agenda, which consists of the discussion of the rules of the State budget which the plenary has given and their votes, I will give the floor to the Secretary to take account of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and the following legislative initiatives have been admitted: Bill No 104 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — transposes the amendments introduced by Directive ( EU ) 2015 / 1794 to Directive 2001 / 23 / EC and Directive 2009 / 38 / EC as regards seafarers; and draft resolutions 1124 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government entrust a feasibility study of the Alvito dam for multiple purposes, including the hypothesis of its construction in its maximum quota ( PSD ), which falls to 6. the Commission, and 1125 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by rejection of Portugal's entry into Permanent Structured Cooperation ( BE ), which falls to 4. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau, whose opinions will have to be voted on, three reports and opinions of the Ethics Subcommittee, the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees. The first therefore refers to the request for suspension of the mandate in accordance with Article 4 ( 1 ( a ). Article 5 ( 2 ) and ( b ). the Statute of Deputies, by Mr Pedro Filipe Soares (BE), a constituency in Lisbon, being replaced by Mrs Maria Luísa Rosendo Cabral, with effect from 24 November, including the opinion is that the suspension and replacement of the Member concerned are to be admitted, since the legal requirements are met.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] You may continue, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of Judge 2 of the Local Criminal Court of Lisbon of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa — Case No 2580 / 16.0TDLSB —, the Subcommittee on Ethics decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Isabel Santos ( PS ) to give written testimony as a witness within the scope of those cases.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u5	The opinion is under consideration, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, finally, the request of the Organic Unit 1 of the Administrative and Prosecutor's Office of Penafiel — Case No 312 / 14.6BEPF — the Subcommittee on Ethics decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Joana Lima ( PS ) to give written testimony as a witness within the framework of those cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u7	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We continue without the presence of the government, but we will enter into the discussion of the rules for today's session. We therefore have: proposals for the addition of Article 73. o -A— National campaign for the sterilization of animals; Article 120. o ( Payment in 2018 of Christmas allowances and holidays in the private sector ) ; proposals for the addition of Article 120. o -A ( Victim Service Chambers ) ; the proposal to add an article 123. o-C ( Reduction of the maximum number of students per class in the beginning years of cycle ) ; the proposal to add an article 130. o-D ( Social Action Fellowships ) ; proposals for the addition of Article 132. o -A ( Health care provided in the spas ) ; the proposal to add an article 132. o-D ( Drug Addiction Structure ) ; the proposed addition to Article 148. o -A ( Transport Title — Pass 4 /NP 18 ) ; proposals for the addition of Article 154. o -A ( Green Electricity ) ; the proposal for an addition to Article 161. o-J ( Strengthening of funds in environmental inspection and supervision ) ; the proposal for the addition of Article 162. o -A ( Commission for the elaboration of the internal tax status ) ; the proposal for an addition to Article 163. the -A ( Transitional Standard of the scope of the Tax Code on the Income of Single Persons ) ; Article 164. o ( Amendment to the Tax Code on the Income of Collective Persons ) ; and finally the proposal to add an article 167. o -A ( IRC-based support measures to companies affected by the 2017 fires ). In the meantime, the Government has arrived to greet and to whom I wish good work. To begin the discussion of the rules of law, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The CFP presents proposals to strengthen the National Health Service ( SNS ) to improve the provision of care and accessibility of users. in primary health care it is necessary to go further. The CFP proposes an investment plan to strengthen equipment and improve facilities and the expansion of pilot experiences in oral, visual and mental health so that in 2019 coverage throughout the national territory is a reality. It also proposes an increase in the number of care units in the community with the same objective. For hospital care, we propose a program of renovation and acquisition of equipment and intervention in the building in all public services and entities. The qualification of doctors and their inclusion in a valued career is inseparable from the best health care. That is why, like previous years, we have put forward a proposal that provides that all doctors have access to specialized medical training. The CFP considers that it is necessary to continue the path started in 2016 with regard to moderate rates, so we resume the patient-centred exemption regime rather than the disease. Medicines represent a cost relevant to users. It is intended to relieve you by proposing an increase to 30 % of the quota value of generic medicines. The extinction of the IDT ( Institute for Drugs and Drug Addiction ), the responsibility of the PSD/CDS Government, resulted in the degradation of this response. The CFP proposes the creation of an entity with administrative and financial autonomy that integrates all aspects of intervention. These are some of the proposals that we believe are fundamental to improving and strengthening the SNS and providing care to users. [[PCP applause.]] [[At the moment, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u9	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and Mrs and Mrs. Members, the budgetary debate so far has an indelible mark: the 62 proposals submitted by the Democratic Social Party to this House in order to improve the budget have all been rejected.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u11	And very well!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u12	Not one has deserved the democratic welcome of the left and far-left front that governs us. [[PS and BE protests.]] We are witnessing, so far, a true democratic absolution, a compressive roll of all the alternative ideas proposed by the Social Democratic Party, the largest Portuguese party, has cast, designed and idealized to improve this Budget. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u13	Get a majority!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u14	My lords, the Social Democratic Party has often had, in the parliamentary history of this country, an absolute majority. There is no memory, I repeat, of a democratic abate of this kind and with so little plurality. We also have the question of the twelfths. The left and far-left front fought to change the regime that was in force, a regime that allowed workers to choose —... [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] ... I repeat, choose — the possibility of seeing part of your holiday allowance paid every month, which allowed for a remuneration scheme that benefited workers and benefited businesses, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises. at this time, with what was approved by the left and extreme left front, there are two peaks in the year, the two peaks of the holiday allowance, with an obvious treasury effort for these small and medium-sized enterprises and for the generality of the Portuguese business fabric. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u15	The Social Democratic Party advocates this norm for discussion and appeals to the front of the left and extreme-left... [[Protests by members of BE Joana Mortagua and PCP Rita Rat.]] ...and the other parliamentary forces to review their position.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u16	And the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u17	There is, in Catholic ethics, a maxim that says that «a saint sins seven times a day, what is needed is that he repents». We know that, particularly in the front of the left and the extreme left, there are few ambitions for the path of holiness, and there they do not even walk, as it is evident, with the governance they are making. But we appeal to all parliamentary forces... [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] ...to see the kindness of the regime in force and to approve the intention of the PSD to maintain the possibility and right of choice for Portuguese workers. Finally, there was the possibility that, before a proposal from the Government and the Socialist Party, there would be a tax forgiveness for certain banks. We questioned the government, we questioned the Socialist Party, we questioned the left-wing front that governs us and we were not clarified.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u18	And what did PSD do? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u19	They were obscure proposals, which raised many doubts, and the government strongly denied that this proposal was obscure and raised doubts. What do we see now? The Socialist Party withdrawing its proposal! Why? We want to know. The proposal was in fact to create inequality between banks and other companies. What we want to know is why a proposal, which yesterday still said was essential, to be fundamental, was withdrawn? The Portuguese want to know exactly what was behind the proposal and its withdrawal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u20	Only now did you decide to think about it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u21	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Sandra Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: 472 women murdered in 14 years, many more victims of attempted murder, hundreds of orphaned children, 23 000 domestic violence participations only last year. The numbers speak for themselves, but because we know that these numbers are just the tip of the iceberg, this matter must really be a priority. Therefore, the proposal of the Left Block to install the victim's care rooms, ensuring national coverage already in 2018, is so important that any victim, at any point in the country, be confident that their protection matters and has the guarantee of quality care and monitoring and in terms of privacy and security. Victims can't wait and I'm glad it will be. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u23	For an intervention, Mrs Marisabel Moutela has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: For PSD and its leaders, this is a Budget that is not oriented towards the future and does not serve the collective interests, does not serve the Country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u25	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u26	For the CDS and its leader, this is a Budget with a serious omission of vision, it is a Budget that makes it difficult to climb into life. Contrary to what you are. Members of the PSD and CDS have profusely spread, this is not a strategyless budget, it is not a visionless budget, it is not a budget that does not think about the present and future of Portuguese. The strategy of this Budget, and this VV. Ex. They'll never understand, they're the Portuguese. It is a Budget that has its centrality in Portuguese and, perhaps, that is why the proposals of that radical left are approved and those of the PSD are not. For us, the country will never survive, never survive by crushing its people and its citizens or, better, in the words of Mr. Carlos Abreu Amorim, by abuffing Portugal and by suffocating the Portuguese. VV. They have great difficulties in looking at the country as a whole, they remember from within when they intend to take advantage of the catastrophes for political purposes. [[PSD protests.]] It was VV. Ex. who most attacked the interior of Portugal, when they emptied it of the functions of the State, as they did with the courts. [[PSD protests.]] Looking into the interior of the country is also looking at the sector of thermalism. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Fifty hundred thousand euros was the price, it was the expense with the participation of SNS in thermal treatments. It was the price that VV. Ex.as paid to withdraw a sector that served not only the SNS, the treatment of Portuguese in the disease, as well as the local economy, which contributed to the national economy, and tourism, that VV. Ex. They're so fond of bragging. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u27	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to create conditions for those who are in the use of the word to be able to listen. [[PSD Protests and PS Protests.]] Madam Member, please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs. Members, looking inside the country is also looking at the thermalism and what it represents in the local economy and the contribution it makes to the whole national and the SNS. Restoring SNS's participation in thermalism is also the mark of this State Budget that the Socialist Party leaves to remain. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u29	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS calls for the plenary to have a set of proposals which we have put forward, with regard to forest fires, so that all Mrs and Mrs. Members can vote and thus assume their responsibilities. We need counsel so that today the PS, the PCP and the Left Block can change their sense of vote and thus approve what they have rejected. What did this majority and the Socialist Party reject, coming from the CDS, in relation to the fires? They rejected the strengthening of means to combat and prevent fires; they rejected tax benefits to the affected companies; they rejected compensation to the victims and, above all, and even more after hearing the PS Member, they rejected the possibility of all studying the creation of a specific tax status for the inside. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u31	Mr Deputies, it is extraordinary that I heard you defend the interior and know that yesterday, the Socialist Party rejected the creation of a committee, consisting of a representative of each parliamentary group, a member of the Ombudsman's Office, a member of ANAFRE (National Fregues Association) and a member of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, to study matters such as, for example, the existence of a differentiated table for residents inside...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u32	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u33	... or how to increase deductions to IRS transport, mobility, tolls, education and housing. Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u34	You're done with the reduced rate of IRC inside!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u35	These parties have to assume, today and here, in the plenary, that they are against considering the possibility of a tax status for the interior. Well you can come and talk about the inside that no one else will take you seriously!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u36	You're done with the reduced rate of IRC inside!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u37	And what is more serious, Mr. João Galamba, is that they have plummeted, suspect, for the same reason that they have plunged all and any proposal from the PSD and CDS: by pure political sectarianism, by pure democratic arrogance,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u38	That part, João Galamba defends!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u39	... for a way of doing politics, which we thought was overcome. [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] Well, Dr. António Costa may, in future, come to appeal to consensus and to agreements on matters such as defence, or community or international that your mask has fallen.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u40	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u41	You don't want consensus, you want to rule your pleasure. They are already, in the middle of the mandate, with hints of arrogance and therefore any appeal to consensus will be no more than a coup, a play or a trick on the part of Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u43	So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us take up the proposals that we have put forward concerning fires and the Portuguese will know who is actually concerned about strengthening fire fighting means or creating a specific statute that can be attractive to the inside and who is concerned only to rule for itself, for their own and for the outsiders. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u44	I now give the floor to Mr Carlos Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Business and Entrepreneur Country is disappointed with this Government. You left the companies to their own ends and violently attacked the self-employed. Public policies, which should create incentives for economic operators to promote investment, give, on the contrary, wrong signs that create distrust. You will increase the tax burden on businesses and penalise the creation of wealth. Your contempt for companies is terrifying. You, unsatisfied, have even worsened the IRC rate with one more state spill. We will be at the highest IRC rate in Europe, only surpassed by Malta. It's unbelievable! You live in bad company with the self-employed, only because they are entrepreneurs and, by the way, free.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u46	Mr President, you have reached the limit of your time. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u47	I will finish, Mr. President. You, on the pretext of being liberal, have attacked hundreds of thousands of unprotected taxpayers. They are people and families without right to a holiday, without holiday and Christmas allowances, they do not take extraordinary hours and fully support contributions to social security. Not yet satisfied with the fact that they have nothing for companies in the budget, you have resolved the measures that the PSD has presented to this Parliament for investment, for exports, for corporate capitalisation and for competitiveness. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u48	Mr. João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : The CFP shall advocate for a vote on its proposal on the green electricity regime. We understand that this is an important proposal for support for productive sectors. The green electricity regime has already existed and can be an important support for the production, storage, conservation and marketing of agricultural and livestock products. The CFP proposal creates an aid equivalent to 20 % of the value of energy consumption on farms up to 50 ha and 10 % on other holdings, cooperatives and producer organisations. We make this proposal because we believe that this support should be granted in the context of de minimis support and aid. This proposal relates to others which the CFP presented, in particular, the proposal for an increase in support for farmers, as regards agricultural gas oil, which would be from 3 cents to 6 cents per litre and the limit per farmer of the current 1000 litres to 2000 litres. Two proposals from the CFP are also included, which have already been approved, in support of the productive sectors. One of these proposals is to enhance fish and provides for a financial allocation to create support structures for fish recovery. This is important, given that the prices at which fish is traded in batch is often far below the price at which it is traded to the final consumer. This measure is therefore an important support for the recovery of fish. Another proposal from the CFP to support petrol for fishing vessels was also approved, which was created by the 2017 State Budget. We understand that for next year we need to take another step and make this support final, which has been created for only one year. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u50	Mrs. Joana Mortágua now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u51	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the Left Block today advocates one of the budgetary measures with the greatest educational impact on the quality of education in the classroom: the reduction in the number of students per class. Math is very simple: with fewer students per class, the teacher has more time to devote to each student. But this advocacy also serves to record that PSD believes that reducing the number of students per class is an error, because PSD math is not the time that the teacher devotes to the student, it is how many teachers can be fired and how many schools can be closed with the increase in the number of students per class — 2500 schools. Who, today, fills his mouth to talk about the desertification of the interior closed 2500 schools in the interior during the years of austerity. [[PSD protests.]] So far, the PSD said it was the troika's fault. at least today, they admit that it was a mistake made by the PSD will and not by the imposition of the troika. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u52	Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we advocate proposal 206 - C, to add an article 73. o -A for a national animal sterilization campaign. One of the priorities of the NAP is the improvement of protection standards and the protection of animal rights. Thus, since the beginning of the legislature, we are afraid, stubbornly, of animal welfare policies and the reflection of this is the fact that we have achieved some good progress, such as the approval of a new legal status of animals, the regulation of the purchase and sale of pets or the approval of Law No 27/2016, which approves measures for the creation of a network of official animal collection centres and establishes the prohibition of the slaughter of errant animals as a form of population control, among others. Knowing, however, that it is not enough to approve laws, that it is necessary to create conditions for them to be enforceable, the NAP was able to enter in the 2017 State Budget, this year, the allocation of an already-competited money to assist municipalities in improving their official collection centres and in purchasing materials necessary to carry out medical-veterinary surgeries. In the meantime, during 2017, at the request of the NAP, the Government carried out a national survey to know the needs of the country in the framework of the official animal collection centres, with some EUR 30 million being required to carry out what has been referred to as a « official collection network ». It was in this follow-up that the NAP opened talks for the Government to guarantee in the 2018 Budget for next year an amount of EUR 2 million for the construction and improvement of the collection centre network, which was approved last afternoon at the Commission. It is not the amount we wanted, but it is what we achieved after difficult negotiations. But knowing that it is not enough to create structures to receive animals, what is intended is that they do not even need to be collected. Therefore, it is important to combat overpopulation of animals by implementing an effective sterilization policy, implemented in the shortest possible time, so that it has time to act in order to reduce the number of errant animals. A national sterilization campaign is urgent for the control of the animal population, but also as a support for economically vulnerable families who, having a desire to sterilize animals but not having economic possibilities to do so, can use municipal services and these, in conjunction with the Order of Veterinary Physicians, allow for such surgery. This measure proposed by the NAP has no impact on the State budget, but it may have a very significant impact on the lives of persons holding animals, in addition to representing another step towards a more ethical control of the animal population. Finally, I want to point out that this has been a hard work for decades and decades, carried out by many associations, informal groups and thousands of anonymous people who, in the face of inertia and the failures of the state, have replaced themselves, collect, feed, treat and sterilize the animals. however, the situation has become unsustainable for these people and it is necessary for the State and the Assembly of the Republic to assume their responsibilities. The sign that exists on your part, sirs. Members, a firm and serious commitment to the animal cause is the approval of this proposal: the allocation of EUR 1 million for a national sterilization campaign.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u54	I now give the floor to Mr Jorge Falcato.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the academic year 2013 / 2014 were enrolled in higher education only 1318 students with special educational needs (NEE), corresponding to 0, 36 % of all students. In 2016 only 140 students entered for higher education through the special access quota for disabled students. These students have increased expenses to compensate for their functional diversity and to be able to accompany the classes on an equal footing with their colleagues. last year, it was approved the proposal of the Left Block that exempted students with the deficiency of the payment of propines. This year, we take another step: the value of these students' scholarships will increase by 60% and more families will have the right to require them. Thus, we continue to create conditions for more students with special educational needs to attend higher education. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u56	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: I think most of the Members. Members who are listening to me will agree that this State budget has been quite filled with absolutely unusual events, absolutely strange things. This is, of course, not the time for this discussion, but this discussion will have to be done. Now, I think we should continue to debate with the truth fund that is being imposed. And the races that can be made here, in the Assembly of the Republic, on the most diverse matters cannot lead us to fail to tell the truth about certain matters. So I wanted to tell you, directly and specifically, Mr André Silva, that yesterday the NAP did not achieve EUR 2 million for the official animal collection centres. These 2 million euros had already achieved the Greens Ecological Party on the previous day,... [[Laughs from PAN MP André Silva.]] ... concerning the construction and modernisation of official animal collection centres. But the Greens have no problem where the NAP presents the same proposal or where the Greens also present a proposal identical to that of the NAP. Now, to tell you the truth, what the honourable Member achieved yesterday was more than € 1 for the animal collection centres. I'm sorry, but I couldn't help but tell this truth, because what you did was add more € 1, that was the conquest of the NAP for the official animal collection centers. To say this truth, I also want to say that Lusa yesterday did not provide a good service to the country, because she did not speak the truth either. He did not speak true when he informed the Portuguese that the 4 /NP 18 pass would have been approved by another parliamentary group with a 50% discount—it is not true! The proposal that was approved was the proposal of the Greens Ecological Party, which promotes a 25% discount for the 4 /NP 18 pass. We wanted more, it is true, we wanted a 50% discount. But last year the government, as it is public knowledge, didn't even want a discount on this social pass. We insisted this year and the agreement we reached was a 25% discount. Therefore, the appeal made by the Greens is to speak the truth and to report accordingly. We believe that this is one of the most fundamental justices for the debate to have, in fact, the dignity it imposes. And this dignity certainly comes from the contribution that all parliamentary groups make. We know that we have reached agreement with the government on the number of students per class. There were several parliamentary groups that presented this proposal and this is important, we say no. Obviously, we also do not overlook the importance of the negotiation we had with the government with regard to reducing the number of students per class in the first year of the first three cycles — i.e. 1. o, 5. a is 7. years. We have not achieved results regarding the decrease in the number of students to secondary school, but that will certainly remain for another budget. It was essential that this year take that step. So, Mr President, what the Greens are calling for is some serenity in the races that are taking place, but also dignity in the debate. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u58	And dignity in the debate is true. The Greens will continue to defend their proposals and try to get them approved, also making an effort with the other parliamentary groups, as well as our efforts with the Government in our negotiations. What we want to do is contribute to a better State budget, better than the proposal that the Government initially presented to the Assembly of the Republic. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u59	For an intervention, Mr. João Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Between 2011 and 2015, there were many social rights that the Portuguese lost and there were many rights that the young Portuguese lost. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u61	Yesterday, in the Assembly of the Republic, we were able to recover and continue the path of recovery of many of these incomes, but unfortunately, the PSD and CDS continued on the wrong side of history. At the initiative of the Socialist Party and the Green Party from 2018 onwards, all young students between the ages of 4 and 18 will recover the 25% discount on access to school passes. This is a measure that has two fundamental virtues: on the one hand, it promotes young mobility, which in the Socialist Party we consider to be one of the fundamental pillars of young emancipation in our country;...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u62	It's only for Lisbon and Porto!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u63	... and, on the other hand—and it is very important to point out this achievement, because it results from a measure approved between 2011 and 2015, in the PSD/CDS government — young Portuguese people will no longer be discriminated against in access to this discount because of what is their class or their income condition.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u64	You've wasted your time, Mr. Deputies. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party and also the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group remain committed to the design of young emancipation and the recovery of rights, including social rights, for the newest generations of Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u66	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u67	Mr. President, Mr. Carlos Abreu Amorim is shocked, he is outraged by the compressor roll of the parliamentary majority. And the country is seriously condoned by Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u68	Hey! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u69	...and with the pain of PSD and CDS. It is that there has never been a party or a set of parties anywhere in the world, which does not have a majority, who does not approve their proposals! Therefore, PSD and CDS have found today that they need a majority to approve proposals, but that they do not have them, and therefore they cannot get their proposals approved. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u70	If you're so strong why don't you approve what you want? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u71	But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, to compensate and help them to compensate for the pain of this new discovery of the relationship of forces that exists in Parliament, the Left Block has presented, and will approve in Parliament a proposal that is an original idea of the PSD and CDS, approved and agreed with the PS, when they have resolved to lower the IRC rate for all companies and increase the spillage. And the IRC rate twice went down and the spill only once increased.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u72	What you are approving is 31, 5 % for companies! It's 31, 5 percent!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u73	Now, the Left Block presented this proposal, this idea of the PSD and the CDS, of increasing the spill, which was agreed with the Socialist Party. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in order to compensate for your grief and outrage at having discovered that they did not have a majority, now have an opportunity to approve a measure that is fair, a small contribution of companies with more profits, with EUR 35 million of profits, to finance social security, to finance pensions. You have the opportunity here to approve a proposal that is fair, which is a good proposal and, you can imagine, it has even been a proposal that you have agreed to in the past. It may be a good time for the PSD to approve your idea of the past and the Left Block has no problem giving that opportunity. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u74	For a second speech, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen: in my speech on the appeal of the measure providing for an investment of more than 2 million euros for official animal collection centres I made a failure, and this failure was not to thank the Government these months of negotiation, with great loyalty and transparency, and not to say that this measure had been approved for a long time, as everyone knows and was informed, and was indeed the first to enter. I would therefore like to leave this note, which I did not initially and which was to thank loyalty and transparency in the negotiations. [[Congrats from PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u76	You have to thank you for another € 1 that they gave you!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u77	Mr João Oliveira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u78	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : On the subject of the twelfths of the Christmas grant, it is necessary to clarify the question, because the lies of the PSD and the CDS do not erase history, and history is known. [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]] The PSD and CDS wanted to end the holiday and Christmas allowances. [[PSD protests.]] They cut the holiday and Christmas allowances as far as they could and where the Constitutional Court left them, because the Constitutional Court, on the day it said it was unconstitutional to continue cutting holiday and Christmas allowances, forced the PSD/CDS government to go back. [[Congratulations on the PCP, BE and The Greens.]] They did not comply with this, PSD and CDS insisted again and found a way to suspend the application of labour law and to dilute the holiday allowance in twelfths, in order to dilute their payment so that no one would remember that those subsidies existed again. The proposal presented by the CFP, and it was adopted, is clear: the application of labour legislation and the right to holiday and Christmas allowances throughout the time they are due to the workers. [[Protests by PSD MP José de Matos Rosa.]] Anyone who defends the replacement of the right to holiday and Christmas allowances shall vote in favour of the proposal from the CFP. Anyone who defends the cut and end of the allowances shall vote against the proposal of the CFP. And who has doubts about this, who will ask the thousands of reformers in this country, who have already started receiving the first half of the Christmas allowance until they receive it in full, what they understand about receiving now, at the time when this Christmas allowance is due, to clarify their positions. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] [[Protests by PSD MP José de Matos Rosa.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: To conclude, I would like to raise a final issue to appreciate a proposal from the CFP on salt. The CFP had already made its disagreement with the creation of the so-called 'fried potato tax' public, but we had also said that excessive consumption of salt and other nutrients is a concern that we have and that we wanted to contribute to a proposal that reduced the level of salt, sugar and fatty acids in food. The tax on 'fried potatoes' has been dropped, but a proposal from the CFP has been adopted which will enable the Government, in conjunction with the agri-food industry, to promote the reduction of salt, sugar and fatty acids in food.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u79	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u80	I shall conclude, Mr President. The outcome of the CFP intervention is clear: instead of having the same salt in food and more tax, there will be less tax, but also less salt in Portuguese food. This may not serve the state safes, but certainly serves the health of Portuguese. [[PCP applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP José de Matos Rosa.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u81	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u82	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and Mrs and Mrs. Members, there is a dominant note from the State Budget for 2018: the economy will slow down, the exports will slow down and the investment will withdraw. during this budgetary debate, the CDS met with several social partners, with employers' associations, entrepreneurs' associations, many companies, many entrepreneurs' companies, many workers and the constant note of all of them is the same: it is a huge disillusionment with regard to business support measures, business support, economic support. That is exactly why we have put forward 10 initiatives focused on economic development and investment support. But, above all, we wanted to highlight here one today, which is the measure of the decline of IRC. The decline of the IRC is important not only to give the Socialist Party an opportunity to keep the word you have given here in this Parliament to comply with the agreement you made with the previous government, to have a planned decline of the IRC, but above all and fundamentally to recover the investment, whether national or external, in Portugal, which is now beginning to crumble. That is exactly why this proposal is so important, from falling the IRC to 19 %. Unfortunately, the only measure we see is one in the opposite direction, increasing the state spill and even the IRC. And now the Left Block can come with godly principles, but we know very well what is in the thinking of the Left Block, until it is written. This proposal for an increase in the state spill is, solely and exclusively, to compensate for the tax ruling which the Government has chosen to give to large companies,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u83	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u84	It's not exclusively, it's also!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u85	... especially to a large company... [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] ... which is called EDP, which only in the asset revaluation scheme had a tax credit of almost EUR 180 million,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u86	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u87	...but what we want is support to the whole economy, to all companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u88	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u89	Finally, Mr President, I would like to leave only one final note on the proposals for the Christmas and holiday allowance scheme in twelfths.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u90	You want to end the subsidy definitely!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u91	The CDS is very clear on this matter: our principle is that of freedom of choice. It makes sense that they are the workers to choose when they want to receive the holiday and Christmas allowances:...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u92	You want to get rid of the subsidies!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u93	... if you want to choose to receive them once, you can do it,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u94	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u95	... if you want to choose to receive them throughout the year, you should be able to do so too. The question is that the right place for us to have this discussion is not within the scope of a budget, which is subject to approval every year. This discussion should be held under the Labour Code, and that is the proposal that the CDS will make, in order to give freedom of choice to workers and employers to be able to choose how and when they want to receive their Christmas and holiday subsidies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u96	You're putting an end to the subsidies, of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u97	I hope that at the time we will have the support of the Portuguese Communist Party, which will tear the garments in this matter,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u98	You can go look for a date in another parish!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u99	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u100	... but, by the way, they want to impose themselves on the will of the workers. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u101	Mr. Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim made an angry speech because Parliament, the parliamentary majority, did not approve any action. It has even evoked an abated democracy, but the lead of the proposals is exactly the result of the functioning of democracy: in democracy, it sends the majority. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim and the PSD Parliamentary Group are well aware that in the past two years, it has not always been that way: it has not been many, but there have been proposals from the PSD that were approved in previous years. this time it didn't happen, and it didn't happen because the PSD chose not to take this debate seriously. [[PSD laughter and protests.]] The PSD was accusing this majority of being irresponsible, of not caring for the future, of not saving public accounts, of spending what it earns — « sheet wins, sheet spends ». This is how the PSD has always dealt with the Socialist Party and with this government. [[Protests by PSD Members Carlos Abreu Amorim and Duarte Filipe Marques.]] However, this did not preclude the PSD from submitting a proposal for IRC (tax on income of the public) which makes the State lose EUR 500 million, from presenting a proposal to lower the rate of liberalization on capital income that withdraws the State EUR 60 million, from proposing an increase in the period of loss of undertakings, from proposing the elimination of the additional to the IMI (municipal property tax), which reaches 12 000 individuals and provides the State with EUR 130 million revenue. [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] The PSD does not want to be taken seriously when, before the whole country, accuses the government of not caring for the future, of not worrying about the public accounts, and presents a set of measures that would withdraw the State more than EUR 1000 million. You are not in this debate to be taken seriously! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u103	Show me the accounts! It's just trusty conversation!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u104	You accuse the government of having your customers, but you have shown exactly what your customers were. And they showed more, they showed that they don't know how an economy works,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD laughter and protests.]] ... because they would be available to lose 500 million euros of IRC revenue cross-border and blind, regardless of the company, if it invests, if it does not invest, whether it is marketable or not. In other words, all companies that have profits would benefit from the reduction of IRC. That is not our policy, it has never been, nor will it be. The reduction of taxes must be selective, thorough, for whom it invests, for whom it exports, for whom it intervenes in marketable sectors. [[PSD Member Protests António Leitão Amaro.]] That is how an economy is managed, how companies are supported. He said recently that there were no measures for companies in the State budget. Well, precisely today, Friday afternoon, we will be able to discuss tax benefits—selective! — to promote the capitalisation of companies, we will be able to discuss the biggest problem of the private sector in Portugal, which is over-indebted, and alternatives to bank financing need to be found. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] So we have measures and wait for Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim's contribution. on the first day of the discussion of the State budget, you said that this government was not ruling, it was governed! Mrs. Members will benefit from the increase in the minimum existence of 210 000 Portuguese, the reduction of taxes 1, 3 million aggregates, the increase in pensions 2, 8 million reformed, the defrosting of careers 600 000 public servants. If it's these customers that the PSD is talking about, then yes, we rule with the people... [[Protests from PSD MP Teresa Morais.]] ... and we are also ruled with what he needs, with his demands, with his ambitions. You have made it clear, with this Budget, what your customers are, but we — I'm sorry — cannot accompany you. [[P.S. and BE Mariana Mortagua's deputy.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u105	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, after the discussion of the rules avoked by the plenary, we move on to the second item on the agenda, which is from the vote on these same rules and from a proposal sent to the plenary. First of all, we are going to check the quorum, so I ask the services that prepare the electronic system. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 199 presences, to which are added those of the Members of the PS Hugo Carvalho and João Azevedo Castro and the CDS-PP Ana Rita Bessa and Ilda Araújo Novo, making 203 registered Members, so we have a quorum for deliberation. Let us begin by voting on the proposal referred to the plenary at 308 - C of the PSD to add to the proposal for a regulation 68. o -A— Extinction of public-private partnerships in the municipal sector. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstention from the NAP.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now voting on proposal 206 - C, the authorship of the NAP, to add to the bill of Article 73. o -A — National animal sterilization campaign. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall vote on proposal 528 - C, tabled by the CFP, to eliminate Article 120. o ( Payment in 2018 of Christmas allowances and holidays in the private sector) of the bill. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u106	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u107	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u108	Mr President, to announce that the CDS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u109	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on proposal 319 - C of the authorship of the Left Block, in addition to the proposal for a new article, Article 120. o -A— Victim attendance rooms. [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS.]] The following is proposal 538 - C, of the Left Block, for the addition of Article 123. o-C — Reduction of the maximum number of students per class in the start years of cycle. The PS calls for the breakdown for the autonomous vote of paragraph 1 (b) of the proposal, which we shall first vote. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] Let us now vote on the remaining part of proposal 538 - C. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We move on to proposal 379 - C, of the Left Block, to add an article 130. o-D — Social stock exchanges. Mr Duarte Pacheco asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u110	Mr President, to request a breakdown in three blocks. There would therefore be three separate votes in this proposal with the following: the vote in Article 5 ( ( g ). the vote on paragraph 6, and finally the vote on Article 16 ( 7 ), both. the Regulation on the Granting of Scholarships to Students of Higher Education. It is only what the proposal has to be voted on, because what remains is the body of Article 130. o-D.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u111	Mr Duarte Pacheco, help us solve a technical doubt, because the Bureau does not have the articulation. When the honourable Member says Article 16 ( 7 ). this is consistent with the fact that we are voting on the proposal relating to the addition of Article 130. o-D?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u112	Mr President, I think you are coming to proposal 379 - C from the Left Block, to add an article 130. o-D, a new article.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u113	The proposal refers to Article 130. o-D?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u114	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u115	Thank you very much, Mr. We therefore have four votes to make on the BE proposal 379 - C, which is an addition to Article 130. o-D : the vote on Article 5 ( 5 ( ( g ). the vote on paragraph 6, the vote on Article 16 ( 7 ), both. that of the Granting Regulation for Scholarships to Higher Education Students, and finally the remaining part of the proposal. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote. We shall vote on Article 5 ( 5 ( ( g ). the Regulation on the Granting of Scholarships to Higher Education Students, contained in proposal 379 - C, to add an article 130. o-D to the bill. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS and the CDS-PP, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the PSD.]] We now turn to the vote on Article 16 ( 6 ). the Regulation on the Granting of Scholarships to Higher Education Students, contained in proposal 379 - C, to add an article 130. o-D to the bill. [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS.]] We shall vote on Article 16 ( 7 ). the Regulation on the Granting of Scholarships to Higher Education Students, contained in proposal 379 - C, to add an article 130. o-D to the bill. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the remaining part of the proposal 379 - C, which shall be added to Article 130. o-D to the bill.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u116	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u117	To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u118	Mr President, as there are no further amendments, I do not understand what we are still going to vote on this draft Rule 130. o-D.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u119	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau was told that in addition to these three specific votes there would still be an issue in the proposal for Article 130. o-D. Is there or isn't there?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u120	Mr. President, as far as I can see, there is no. Only if the question remains regarding the body of Article 130. o-D. If there is such doubt, vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u121	Then, in doubt, we shall vote, Mr President. We shall vote on the remaining part of the proposal 379 - C, adding an article 130. o-D to the bill. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, votes against the PS and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We proceed with the vote on proposal 294 - C of the PS authorship of Article 132. o -A. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a favourable vote of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on proposal 512 - C of the CFP, amending Article 132. o-D — Drug Addiction Structure. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 2 - C by the Greens on the amendment of Article 148. o -A — Transport Title — Pass 4 /NP 18. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on proposal 419 - C of the CFP, adding Article 154. o -A— Green electricity. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS and PAN and with votes in favour of BE, the PCP, The Greens and the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 392 - C of the PSD for the addition of Article 161. o-J — Strengthening of funds in environmental inspection and monitoring. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PSD and the NAP and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We shall vote on proposal 125 - C from the CDS-PP, adding an article 162. o -A— Commission for the elaboration of the tax status of the interior. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on proposal 85 - C of the CDS-PP, for the addition of Article 163. o -A— Transitional Standard under the Code of the Tax on the Income of Single Persons. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the CDS-PP and the PAN and the abstention from the PSD.]] Let us now vote on proposal 196 - C of the PSD amending Article 52 ( 1 ). the IRC Code. Mr Duarte Pacheco asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u122	Mr President, I can suggest, assuming the way in which the banks vote, that all the PSD proposals relating to Article 164 are voted on. The proposal for a law?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u123	The honourable Member suggests that in addition to voting on proposal 196 - C, which I had announced, the proposal 194 - C1 to amend Article 87 ( 1 ) and ( 2 ) should also be voted on. the IRC Code, as set out in Article 164. That of the bill, all in lockdown?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u124	Yes, Mr. President. And we can add to the vote proposal 194 - C2, adding Article 164 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u125	in this case, we shall vote together on the four proposals submitted by the PSD, within the framework of Article 164. the, namely : proposal 196 - C, amending Article 52 ( 1 ). the IRC Code, proposal 194 - C1, amending Article 87 ( 1 ). the IRC Code, proposal 194 - C1, amending Article 87 ( 2 ). the IRC Code, and proposal 194 - C2, adding Article 164 ( 2 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstention from the NAP.]] We turn to proposal 96 - C, from the CDS-PP initiative, amending Article 87 ( 1 ). the IRC Code. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstention from the NAP.]] If there are no objections, we will vote together on the proposal 323 - C, submitted by BE, amending Article 87 ( 1 ). the -A of the IRC Code, and the proposal 323 - C, also of BE, amending paragraph 2 ( b ) of the same Article of the IRC Code. [[Pause.]] We have agreement and therefore we are voting together on the two proposals. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We move on to proposal 492 - C, submitted by the PSD, to add an article 167. o -A— IRC-based support measures for companies affected by the 2017 fires. Mr. João Oliveira asked for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u126	Mr President, I would like to make an appeal to the Bureau. I have an idea that this is the second consecutive year in which we use this method of voting in the plenary, which does not seem to me the most appropriate, nor do we realize why we have abandoned the previous one. in this particular case, we just voted on Article 164. the, which introduces changes to the IRC. As only two proposals have been put forward, a script of votes has been built that reflects only the vote on these two proposals. There are, however, a number of other amendments to the same Article 164. what were voted yesterday in the Commission and which is as if they were no longer voted because they were not included in today's script. The circumstances of today's vote have not changed and therefore everything we just voted for coincides with what was voted in the Commission yesterday. But if, perhaps, there had been a change in the way of voting and approving proposals that had not been adopted or otherwise, we had a problem, because there were votes in the Commission that contradicted the votes in the plenary. It seems to me that, in this case, there is no such problem, but in the future, the script with proposals that are lawyers must contain all the article that is voted on, at least in the articles of the IRC Code which are amended, so that there is no doubt, because otherwise we are at risk of voting one day do not agree. I believe that, in this case, the reference may suffice to us that the votes taken yesterday in the Commission are not affected by what has not been voted on here today. Maybe this can solve the problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u127	Mr João Oliveira's observation for future memory is therefore very relevant. Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u128	Mr President, regardless of whether we can always find improvements in this process, the reality is that these scripts were made and distributed at three o'clock in the morning. It is therefore difficult to ask Parliament's officials more to be able to vote at 10 a.m. however, particularly within IRS, for example, where there are many amendments and many rules, if because of the lawyering of an article we transposed the entire article of the bill, the nine hours we were in the Commission yesterday would be transferred to the plenary and I do not know if we would gain much from this.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u129	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we already understand that the immediate useful effect of these appeals does not change anything that we have done so far. Once again giving the floor to Mr. João Oliveira, he asked us to try to overcome the issue and make reflection at best, perhaps at the Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u130	Mr President, I think it is very easy to clarify this issue. The scripts were, of course, made in a framework where it is perfectly reasonable that these problems arise, until the votes were too late. But what I proposed was not to bring all Article 164. the proposal for a law, but to bring to the vote at least the amendments which affect the IRC articles on the same point, which I believe corresponds to the question which Mr Duarte Pacheco has put. It is therefore a matter of taking this into account in other votes that we have to do from here to the front.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u131	All right. In any case, we know that we have excellent cooperation from the services behind so that all this work can be carried out with full normality and profit. As I mentioned recently, we are within the scope of proposal 492 - C, of the authorship of the PSD, of the addition of Article 167. o -A. Let's vote. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the voting procedure for the articles of law. Mrs Teresa Morais asks for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u132	Mr President, to call on the Bureau to ask for it to read again the heading of the article, because it was mentioned long before we voted on this article.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u133	Madam Member, there is no problem with your request. This is a proposal for an addition to Article 167. o -A, whose heading is: IRC-based support measures to companies affected by the 2017 fires. Mrs. Members, we move on to the third item on the agenda, with the continuation of the discussion, in the specialty, of Bill No 100 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the State budget for 2018, taking up the matter at the point where it remained yesterday. [[Pause.]] I'm asking the ladies. Members intend to register in relation to an article prior to the proposal for Article 198. o -A. [[Pause.]] That doesn't seem to happen. Proposal 434 - C of the PSD for the addition of Article 198 is then under consideration. o -A — Tax incentives to parceling or permuting rustic buildings. Mr Álvaro Batista, from the PSD, has the floor to present the proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by complimenting you. The Budget also fails in territorial cohesion and intervention in the rural world. For the PSD, the reduction of asymmetries requires clear measures. The interior and the rural world need a new strategy, need sustained growth, need action. More than words and apologies, the rural world needs concrete things. The country needs to repopulate agricultural and forest areas, promote forest planning and cultural diversity, but this is not done with soft talk. The interior and the rural world need a change in the structure of the property, they need support for parceling, aid for the exchange of agricultural and forestry land, and this has to have tax incentives. This is our proposal: exemption from IMT (municipal tax on onerous property transmissions), exemption from seal tax, exemption from IMI (municipal property tax) and registration payment for all retail transactions. The PSD wants to support the interior and the rural world. And when do you guys stop making excuses for bad payers? [[PSD applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u135	Mr Ricardo Bexiga, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: The Capitalisation Programme is a powerful tool for public policies, which is fundamental to supporting the capitalisation and financing of Portuguese companies, especially SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises) and to reduce their high levels of indebtedness. The Government Programme in this area clearly identifies the three major challenges facing Portuguese companies today: capitalisation, innovation, internationalisation. The Capitalisation Programme, in addition to providing EUR 1600 million to finance national companies, still has 84 measures divided into five strategic areas of intervention, which constitute instruments to promote investment, capitalisation and balance in the financial structures of companies, of which I stress the decrease in context costs, taxation issues, business restructuring, investment finance leverage and capital market dynamisation. The proposals submitted by the PS Parliamentary Group on Tax Benefits are intended precisely to implement the additional measures provided for in the Capitalisation Programme in order to encourage not only the capitalisation of companies by increasing capital, but also the restructuring operations of cooperation agreements. We are convinced that the amendments we tabled to Article 198. the proposal for the State Budget Bill for 2018 contribute safely to dynamizing new forms of corporate capitalization, strengthening business investment and the competitiveness of our economy and demonstrating that this is effectively a business-friendly budget and that will continue on the path of development of the national economy and corporate capitalisation, in order to create a stronger and more prepared business structure for the new challenges of globalisation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u137	For an intervention, also on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr João Torres has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group presents in the framework of the State Budget for 2018 a proposal that is relevant for sport in Portugal, a proposal that concerns the encouragement of sport. We all certainly recognize the importance and irreplaceable character of public funding for sport, but the fact is that institutions in the field often have the need and legitimacy to find resources of private origin to promote their activity. The proposal of the PS Parliamentary Group rightly provides that the Tax Benefit Statute will increase the donations for this purpose as costs in the legal sphere of the mecens. This is — it is important to point out — an old claim of the sport movement, which is widely defended by its agents, namely the Portugal Olympic Committee, and in addition to its material dimension, it also gives symbolic and increased attention to sport, which cannot fail to be underlined. Mr President, both in the Government and within the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party and its imminent legislative action, we want to make it clear that the valorisation of sport has a concrete translation for all those who support and promote this activity through the patronage, at the moment when several public programmes and policies are articulated to combat sedentaryism and to promote regular physical activity for all, causes whose relevance and social care are growing in Portuguese society. Mr President, what we hope, of course, is that the other parliamentary groups can also associate themselves with this proposal, by validating and supporting the fair and genuine effort that sports agents employ in their daily mission, a mission relevant to the population in our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u139	Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the tax benefits and also the local taxes, and we have heard some speeches with great concern about the interior. We also had in this debate a proposal from the CDS to create an internal tax status. The Government has now not agreed on matters of interiority, the Government has approved, as soon as the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 72 / 2016, the National Plan for Territorial Cohesion, which makes an approach to the interior which is transversal and multidisciplinary and not only from a fiscal point of view. But from a fiscal point of view, we have incentives for the interior. For example, at the company level, of those companies that the right parliamentary groups say that the Budget and this government in no way take care of, the truth is that there is a special IRC scheme that allows the first €15 000 of profit to be taxed at a reduced rate of 12 %. We also see that there are proposals from the PSD on tax regimes for the sale of wood. Mrs. Members, there is already a specific tax regime for the sale of wood and it is a specific tax regime that has not even been approved in this Legislation, was approved in the previous Legislation, which allows a sale to be divided by 12 and applied the rate over 1 / 12, so that income tax is made on a lower taxable basis. However, in this State budget it is also proposed to extend this regime to isolated acts, i.e. also to the situations of those people who, not doing so an activity, especially because of disasters, had to make a sale. But let me also point out and stress another measure of the Government which I think is important. It has to do with the reform of the taxation of the rustic buildings, which leads to the need to make the georeference of all the rustic buildings that we have and that is why we have a work involving several areas of the government that advanced on November 1 with a pilot experience in the municipalities of the interior pine, precisely to make the register of the rustic property of the country, which is very important in order to better care for the interior and in order to be better able to take care of that same heritage. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is what I would like to leave here at the moment.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u141	Mr Nuno Magalhães of the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Secretary of State for Tax Affairs has come to say that the Government has not agreed to the inside today. Mr Secretary of State, I would say that, as the Socialist Party proposes such as the one presented by the CDS, which aimed at the elaboration of a tax statute for the interior, the Government has in fact not agreed today on the issues of the interior for a simple reason: it is that it continues to sleep, it is manifestly still sleeping! in fact, Mr. Secretary of State, it is another symptom of the arrogance with which this government performs its functions when the Secretary of State says: "No, we have done everything to do, we know everything, we need no one else's contribution". Please notice what the Socialist Party, which supports the government and the Secretary of State, has led! It was so simply that there could be a committee with representatives of all the parliamentary groups and also of the PAN Member who, together with the Ombudsman's Office, with ANAFRE (National Association of Freguesias ), with ANMP ( National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ), could study matters related to the existence of differentiated tables for residents in the interior, which has to do with the possibility of extending existing deductions — a responsible proposal! — for transport, mobility, tolls, education and housing, at the IRS and outside, you can study the reduction in the TSU (unique social rate) for companies that promote telework of residents in the interior, the possibility of extending the regime of social rates of electricity, gas and water to users of the interior. We could have made these proposals, Mr Secretary of State, but, as we believe from a technical point of view that they are complex matters and with potential political impact, we would prefer to suggest that, in a committee, with representatives of all and academics, whether they can study the best proposals and what is or is not feasible, which is or is not possible. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u143	And what did the Socialist Party do? It was the same thesis of the Government : « We know everything, we don't need anyone, we don't want to know anything». And this, Mr Secretary of State, unfortunately, allows us to say that the government has in fact not agreed today for the simple reason that it continues to sleep in relation to the interior. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u144	The Secretary of State for Tax Affairs has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u145	Mr President, Mr Nuno Magalhães, with all due respect, I hope that I have not passed on any weakness because that is not my characteristic nor certainly the characteristic of the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u146	The government, calm down! ...We do not generalize
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u147	Of course not the Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u148	Mr President, with regard to the CDS proposal there is one thing I do not understand: it is that the interior is not all the same. It is not the same as the interior in the areas of Vila Real or other areas and therefore to make a tax status for the interior must certainly take into account the different realities for which tax policy should be directed. However, the tax benefits, being a parafiscal reality, must be very selective and must, precisely, have a justification and an obligation on the basis of certain characteristics and, Mr President, must be justified. Ladies and gentlemen, we will always have to listen to and discuss any changes in tax matters with the Assembly of the Republic. But, Mr President, for example, in the proposal presented by the CDS, one of the points that have intrigued me was why it was now necessary to make a committee with ANAFRE, with ANMP and with the parliamentary groups to define what interiority was. And do you know why that scared me? Because the Government approved Portaria No 208 / 2017 precisely when it meant what were the territories that were covered by the tax incentive at the head of IRC to the businesses of the interior and, listening to the inter-municipal communities, the Association of Municipalities, the Association of Freguesias, finally, heard all these entities that the honourable Member now wants to hear, the list of the municipalities of the interior was then defined. Mr President, we are always available for the debate. We just want to say that there is a strategy approved by the Government, which is transversal, the National Plan for Territorial Cohesion, which has aspects that are not only fiscal, which is only one of the dimensions, but surely we will always be available to discuss all tax matters in the Assembly of the Republic, because this competence is from the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u149	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u150	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, with due respect, has just contradicted himself. The Secretary of State said — and I fully agree, you are absolutely right — that in these matters of the CDS proposal it is important to pay attention to the diversity within. Well, Mr Secretary of State, the point (a) of our proposal was precisely one of the tasks of this committee to establish objective criteria for the definition of the concept of interior for the purposes of this law. I do not think that Mr Secretary of State has read the CDS proposal because that was precisely the assumption and then in point (a), I repeat, we had this definition as our first concern. Then Mr. Secretary says something else, and then, yes, he goes into contradiction. Mr. Secretary of State says - and good! — that there is a great diversity in the interior, but then he says that it is not necessary to define it because, for all purposes, there is already a door that defines it. What are we in, Mr. Secretary of State? Is it different or is it not different? Is it defined or not defined? Is it for everything or is it just for a few things? That's all, Mr. Secretary of State. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u151	Mr. Secretary of State is reregistered. He asked us to finish this pong-pong to move on to the subsequent articles. But I also give the floor to the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u152	Mr President, Mr Nuno Magalhães, at the door that we have made about a very specific tax incentive, which has to do with the IRC of the interior companies, was then defined with several entities, what was the concept of interior for that effect in particular. As you see, the government, in this definition, is always concerned about hearing all entities. But, sir, do you know why we had to do this? Because you, in the previous legislature, had ended with the IRC regime inside. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u153	Mrs. Members, let us turn to the proposal submitted by the PSD for the addition of Article 198. o-B — Exemption from IRS for sale of burnt wood. Mr. Luís Pedro Pimentel has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The tragic events that took place in our country in the last summer of this year, in addition to the victims, that we all regret, have caused, among other things, widespread economic damage to forest owners, who have been forced to proceed to the cutting and premature slaughter of woody material in their lands. Much of the burned wood was not yet suitable for its valuation, much of it even without any commercial value. Therefore, and with a view to minimizing the enormous damage caused by severe fires on producers, and in particular on small producers, the PSD proposes that income generated by the sale of burned wood be exempt from taxation at IRS for owners with sales of less than EUR 50 000, a measure of great importance and full justice to those who have seen their lives completely devoured by the flames of the fires that occurred in our country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u155	Mrs. Members, let us turn to the proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 203. o -A — Addition to General Tax Law. Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP submitted proposals 497 - C, adding an article 173. o -A — Amendment to the VAT system of cash, 501 - C, adding an article 203. o -A — Addition to the General Tax Law and 503 - C, by adding an article 226. o -A — Legal review of micro and small business accounts for the elimination or reduction of administrative costs of micro and small enterprises. Combating these costs in money and in time is crucial for competitiveness and profitability, for the dynamisation of the economy and employment, with these companies which are the vast majority of the national business fabric. In addition to the ongoing process of reducing the CFP, with a view to its elimination by replacing it with technical or economic coefficients, the CFP believes that there are political conditions for concrete measures to be adopted in 2018 for further progress in this area. The CFP proposes measures to improve the scope and procedures of the VAT cash scheme and thus respond to a difficult factor of treasury to many micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. We do not ignore the difficulties for companies in postponing customer payments, particularly when these delays are aggravated by the proportion of VAT invoiced but not received that these companies have to deliver to the State. The CFP proposes that it be possible to create the possibility of correct accounts between tax obligations to be paid and tax duties to be received, in particular VAT and IRC, by meeting old aspirations of many micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, limiting some of the cash difficulties that are not their responsibility. The CFP proposes to update the value of the turnover from which legal review of accounts is required to a company. The conditions requiring the statutory review of companies'accounts, in particular the reference value for turnover, have not been updated since 1998, thereby making this procedure compulsory in numerous small enterprises due to the monetary depreciation of inflation, increasing their administrative costs. It is also that situation that needs to be resolved. Specific solutions to the real problems of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises are what moves us in this area, Mr President. Members, not the defence of the interests of the large economic groups, and here we want to recall that the IRC spill which raises taxes by 2 percentage points for profits above EUR 35 million and that both angers the PSD and the CDS does not cover any micro, small or medium-sized enterprise, which affects micro, small and medium-sized enterprises is the calvary of tax and administrative procedures, are payments made and late or never revoked, it is the special payment on account, which has an end to the decision adopted in the Assembly of the Republic by means of a proposal submitted by the CFP and which has obtained votes against the PSD. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u157	We now move on to the proposed addition of Article 216. o-B — Creation of a special tourist contribution of the Algarve to exempt A22 from tolls presented by BE. Mr. João Vasconcelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the introduction of tolls in the former SCUTs continues to cause serious economic, social and mobility damage to affected populations and companies. in the Algarve, this reality is much more controversial since there are no alternative routes and the national road No 125 has become an authentic cemetery, which was recognized by the Prime Minister. It is a disgrace and an unsustainable tragedy in the country's main tourist region, in which there are more than 10,000 accidents per year. The Left Block once again presents two proposals: a proposal aimed at removing the tolls, because we believe that PPP (public-private partner) is really ruinous and one of the biggest economic crimes, such as other PPPs, and another proposal that addresses the concerns of the honourable Members. Members of the PS, PSD and CDS when they say that the country cannot dispense with revenue. Considering the impact that the strong influence of tourists on the road network in the region, we have a proposal to create the special tourist contribution to pay the maintenance costs of A22, the Via do Infante, exempting it from tolls. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the remainder will be for the improvement of the road network in the region. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u159	Mr António Eusébio, from the PS Parliamentary Group, also spoke on the same draft article.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, question: who doesn't want to pay less or have a SCUT free of toll? The proposal that has now been submitted by the Block on the Left may at first glance appear balanced, since it only charges those who visit the region, but, in a more careful analysis, we realize that we are talking about an overtax on companies and a competitive disadvantage for the economy of the Algarve and the tourism sector. This is a proposal that, as configured, will affect and certify the authorities in determining their source of revenue and in their use for the requalification of their territory and thus improve the level of service and create better conditions for those who visit us, as well as for those who reside in the Algarve all year round. This proposal, on the contrary, penalizes the territory when it serves only to pay a SCUT in the Algarve. It is a proposal that raises doubts about constitutionality and legality when it creates conditions of inequality in the use of SCUs at different points in the country, to which it adds the fact of questioning the national scope or con cerning the incidence of taxes. It is a proposal that makes it more difficult for thousands of jobs to be created and maintained. It is a proposal that exacerbates the main activity that gives sustainability to the region and which has created more difficulties for companies that want to ensure a qualified response, that the region needs, questioning its competitiveness with other tourist destinations. We are talking about more than EUR 30 million from the regional economy, worth about 50 % of the Community funds that Algarve authorities have to invest for seven years. The State cannot create solutions that are far from different between its regions, and the State must promote global equal solutions throughout the territory. That is the only way we respect the identity of all Portuguese people. There can be no first or second regions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u161	We shall continue with the proposal for a new Article 218. o -A— Elimination of increased tax on petroleum products. Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In February 2016, at a time when the price of oil on international markets was historic but transiently low, the Government decided to increase the tax on petroleum products ( ISP ), the tax we pay whenever we put gasoline or diesel in a car or a motorcycle in order to compensate for the loss of VAT revenue that the State was having. It happens that at the moment, the average price of gasoline and diesel is much higher than it was in February 2016 and, in this sense, the State is raising much more in VAT, allowing this specific tax to be lowered, the ISP, in order to relieve the families that are very penalized by this huge increase in indirect taxes, which affects them both to themselves and to businesses and to the economy itself. Just to have a comparison term, right now, compared to February 2016, we're talking about another 23 cents per litre in gasoline and more than 30 cents per litre in gasoline, which means that if a family or company finds a deposit of 60 liters of gas oil, we're talking about more than 18 euros per deposit. The proposal presented by the CDS aims to eliminate this extraordinary increase in the ISP that the Government has made, supported by the Communist Party, the Left Block and the Greens, in order to give more freedom and some strike to families and to greatly help the economy, economic entities and businesses, so that they can have some relief in terms of energy and operating costs, because, in fact, this is a cost that is still very direct. We want to give the parties that support the majority to help do tax justice to the Portuguese. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u163	On the same proposal for an article, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u164	Mr President, Mr. Luís Pedro Mota Soares, just to inform you that in the State budget proposal we have a very concrete measure with regard to fuel sources. Therefore, the LNG (LNG natural gas) is taxed at exactly the same rates as our Spanish neighbours, precisely because most LNG posts are installed in the raisin areas. This allows us to have a sustainable mobility policy, with a future and cleaner energies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u165	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor. Looks like we're going into a pong-pong.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u166	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, if I may, we know how to read the Budget and we also know that the Government's word in this matter is worth zero. The government promised in 2016 that it would review, every three months, this same tax and that, whenever there was an increase in oil and in that sense the State would collect more VAT, it would review lowering the tax, but the government totally broke the word it gave to the Portuguese. That is why, Mr Secretary of State, let me tell you that we are very suspicious of what the Government is saying in this Parliament. We know that, in this matter, the word has not been honored. You lied and missed your commitment to Parliament and to the Portuguese. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u167	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to the proposal of Article 226. o-C — Charges arising from judicial support of the CFP. Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u168	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, on judicial costs, the CFP proposes, like what happened in 2017, that the value of the legal costs remain suspended, thus disindicating the value of the judicial costs of the IAS (indicating social support) and therefore the increase of the IAS does not imply the increase of the legal costs. At the same time, and since this proposal has a collateral effect, which is to freeze also the fees taken by lawyers who assure the informal defences within the framework of legal aid, it is proposed that the Government should define, by port, a fair amount applicable to informal defenders so that they are not adversely affected by this freezing of the value of costs. Similarly, the CFP — and to this end, Mr President — proposes that there be an exemption from the payment of legal costs in the proceedings relating to workers injured and in the proceedings motivated by occupational diseases. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u169	Mr João Azevedo Castro of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u170	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a policy consolidation budget in a time of restraint and rigour but without forgetting the people, the real recipients, and it is a budget that addresses problems of the present and also of the past, including the so-called milk price crisis paid for production. The previous government insisted on pushing this issue forward, successively delaying action to be taken. It is important to continue to find answers in the light of regional and local realities. Portugal is currently the third country of the European Union in the implementation of the ERDF ( European Regional Development Fund ), with the largest number of measures for the sector. We highlight the specific programme for the milk sector, the code of self-regulation, the increase in cow payments, aid for production reduction, the opening of credit lines, the competition for producers, the opening of 36 new markets, the increase in exports by around 28 %, the labelling, which is fundamental to the recognition of an irreplaceable product of high nutritional value and without parallel in other foods. Today, we witnessed a slight increase in the price of milk paid for production. However, difficulties persist. We therefore put forward a proposal to reduce the rate for social security paid by raw milk producers by 35 %. We hope that this proposal will be accompanied by the other parliamentary groups in order to see this budget implemented. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u171	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there was a broad interpretation of the Bureau in that, as it were proposals for amendments relating to the same article, several subjects were discussed. Let us turn to the proposal of Article 226. o-D — Transitional provision. Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government has asked for the floor in respect of Article 226. that of the bill, stress what seems to be a very important step in relation to the justice of our tax system. And I speak of justice because we add to the Code of Civil Procedure a rule that is of greatest relevance to self-employed people. To date, only dependent workers and pensioners had their income protected from a penhora, from execution. With this amendment, we are comparing the incomes of work dependent on the incomes of self-employment and extending to these professionals, to self-employed workers, the right to minimum subsistence and that, when there are penorals, they have and continue to have protection of the State, which will safeguard two thirds of their incomes. This is a measure that tells thousands of people who are forced to work on green receipts and, often, when they suffer a burden, their bank accounts are affected in all, as well as their work equipment. Well, with this proposal, we rest justice for these people and ensure that independent workers, like dependent workers, have at their disposal two thirds of their income, which is, and becomes, immeasurable. Like what this majority has already done with houses of household, this is a measure of greater importance and justice for self-employed people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u173	We turn to the proposal of Article 228. o -A — Amendment to the Statute of the National Health Service, the PSD. Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u174	Mr President, I have signed up but it was to intervene on the proposal for an article on amendments to the law of youth associations.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u175	Therefore, on the proposal for Article 228. o -A — Amendment to Law No 23 / 2006 of 23 June has the floor of Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PSD presented three proposals that bring some benefits to youth and student associations. The PSD first wants taxpayers to be able to deliver some of their IRS to associations; secondly, that youth and student associations can enjoy exemption at rates and emoluments; and thirdly, to increase the benefits of the social mecenate applicable to youth and student associations. Unfortunately, what is a chronicle of three leads announced is coming about for one reason: because it was the PSD that presented the proposals, regardless of their merit. If the parties of the far-left lead these three proposals, what matters is that what they are doing is harming the youth and student associations, unique and exclusively by the primary sectarianism of not being able to vote for a PSD proposal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u177	Mr Ivan Gonçalves also spoke on this proposal for a new article.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is, in fact, no chronicle of an announced lead. What exists is a process of reviewing the law of young associations—that the PSD bench certainly does not ignore—and that makes these changes highly impetuous when there is a process that takes place here in Parliament in 12. the Commission, which will effectively discuss and review with all the parties which have sat in this Parliament this law of young associivism. Therefore, there will be, on our part, a lead in the amendments tabled by the PSD, but this law is being discussed and there will be all the space so that, in the future, we can come to discuss these and other articles which can be inserted in this law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u179	Once again, you have the floor to Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u180	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to inform you that these amendments have been stopped six months ago in 12. the Commission shall, at the will of the PS. The Government has promised for more than a year and a half of the amendments it has announced here, and that it then plagiarized the proposal announced last week. The only thing we want is to ensure that the associations can have access to these tax benefits by the beginning of 2018. If SS. Ex. Lead our proposals, that's not gonna happen. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u181	We turn to Article 229. o — Amendment to Law No 62 / 2007 of 10 September 2007 Mrs Margarida Mano has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, understood the Government in Article 229. the, includes amendments to the RJIES (Legal System of Higher Education Institutions) in two areas: in relation to equity autonomy and the equalization of leadership positions to the status of management staff, in a void which the interpretation of the Court of Auditors has become evident. In the first case, I am speaking in an incomplete way and not defending the public interest sufficiently, and in the second case I am speaking in an incorrect and incomplete way. Thus, the PSD comes with this proposed amendment, essentially in a constructive way, to correct the articulation of this article. The property issue is particularly expensive and it is a concern that is essentially concerned — and this will be admitted, which has motivated the government — with the lack of accommodation in university residences. The PSD is sensitive to this concern, and this is of course not only in the initiatives we proposed in the framework of the State budget, but also in those that we made possible from other parties to increase the capacity of residences, this in a budget in which the public choice was that there was no investment in public university residences. by proposing this article, the Government in some way assumes that the administrative machine that manages and applies the legal system of real estate property is paralysing, i.e. that there are proposals for rental applications to wait two years, and also admits that it has to adapt the current situation to higher education institutions of public law since foundations no longer have this problem. The PSD cannot accept the proposal as it is, because, on the one hand, it agitates alienation but does not suit the conditions of acquisition and lease, which would mean that it would be easier to sell property than to rent for a university residence, and on the other hand does not secure the public interest, because it does not require a reinvestment of an identical heritage nature, because it does not provide for property assessments and because it does not also provide for mechanisms of transparency and disclosure absolutely necessary for the procedures of negotiation and conclusion of acquisitions and sales. The PSD proposal thus seeks to ensure that institutions of higher education under public law respond in time, with a tacit referral regime and defending the public interest and transparency principles. We also propose spending on insurance related to the educational community. With regard to the leadership, we propose correcting the error, which is Article 67. and not Article 140. o — as well as the consideration of all positions, since the proposal does not consider the duties of Article 128. the RJIES of social action. Very sincerely, what we expect in the afternoon is that above tactics and party interests should be placed the public interest and the sense of responsibility in voting on this article. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u183	We turn to Article 238. o — Amendment to Law No 53 / 2014, 25 August. Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u184	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, unquestionably positive — this is the balance sheet we can make from the Municipal Support Fund, a structural and permanent solution for the prevention and resolution of imbalances in municipal finances. from this fund benefited all the Portuguese municipalities, from the municipalities supported with the intervention of this fund, but also all those who saw improved the quality of their municipal credit. This is a mechanism that municipalities cannot dispense. However, the new legislation proposed by the Government does not ensure the commitments already made by this Fund, preventing other municipalities from being able to support this mechanism in future. in this context, following the suggestion of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, the Government is given the possibility to submit a new proposal to review this regime until the end of the first half of 2018. However, and equally, we now propose that the interest rate to be charged to the municipalities concerned is exactly the same as that which the Fund itself helps when it is financed by the State, a measure which we consider to be the most basic justice. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u185	We are now discussing the proposal, the PSD, to add an article 250. o -A — Amendment to Decree-Law No 137 / 2014 of 12 September 2014 Mrs Fatima Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, starting by complimenting them, I will say the following: in the previous Community frameworks the projects were financed taking into account, above all, their physical and financial implementation, which led to the decision at the end of the Community framework often to increase the degree of implementation without looking at the impact of the project on the achievement of objectives. under Portugal 2020, the previous government established the approval, evaluation and payment values of projects in results assessment criteria. This amendment which was included in Portugal 2020 is essential for the country. It is very important to have Community funds, but it is crucial that these funds are used and evaluated and it is important to know where the funds have been applied, where territories and what the results have been. The PSD therefore aims to increase transparency and efficiency as reflected in the partnership agreement with this article. It is important that the annual report to be submitted by the Agency contains a chapter in which the evaluation of the results and the rules is clear and it is important for Portugal 2020 to publish, in addition to the approved projects, the expected results and results obtained, as well as the location of the projects. The Portuguese have the right to know! It is important to speed up the processes, eliminating the intermediaries. The PSD has repeatedly asked the Government for information on performance indicators and has not responded. This is a requirement of the country. The partnership agreement will be evaluated in 2018. If we do, we can get 6 % efficiency reserve; if we don't, we can lose 6 % of EUR 26 billion. The Government has this obligation and I hope this Parliament will indeed be in favour of clarity, transparency and efficiency. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u187	We are now discussing the proposal, the PSD, to add an article 250. o-B — Amendment to Decree-Law No 159 / 2014 of 27 October 2014 Mr. Paulo Rios de Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about Community funds. Companies applying for the incentive scheme complain of recurrent delays in the reimbursement of funds from the Community funds to which they are entitled. One of the main causes of delays at the start of the NSEQ was the existence of intermediaries in payments from European funds to supported companies and projects. The previous government therefore established that payments to companies in Portugal 2020 would be made directly by the Agency for Development and Cohesion in the incentive system. This Government has reorganised payments to companies through intermediate agencies such as the AICEP (International Association of Portuguese Express Communications) or the Tourism of Portugal, and these delays are already occurring. Thus, our proposal is to eliminate the intervention of intermediate agencies in payments and that it is only the Agency for Development and Cohesion to assume the powers of payment authority. In the background, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it's taking a Simplex here. Let us hope that they have no 'complex' in relation to this proposal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u189	We now move on to the discussion of the proposal of the CDS-PP, to add Article 253. o -A — Amendment to Law No 10 / 2017 of 3 March 2017. Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u190	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this proposal once again aims to bring greater transparency from the point of view of the commitments made by the Government and, at the same time, to allow better and more effective supervision by the Assembly of the Republic of those works which are often announced with pump and circumstance, but then never implemented. In short, this proposal aims to ensure that this State budget, which will be approved on Monday, can be a budget that really exists and not that which exists only in the role and is approved in the Assembly of the Republic. This has to do with the Law on Investment Programming in Security Forces and Services, such as Mr. Members know, it must appear in the Annual Report on Internal Security and must also, in an autonomous chapter, the Government, whenever it presents it, state the works it will do. However, despite the fact that the CDS has repeatedly asked the Ministry of Internal Administration for the situation in this construction of GNR teams and posts, the fact is that the Government repeatedly refuses to do so. Now, precisely on behalf of transparency, on behalf of the credibility of the State budget, what the CDS now proposes is that the Assembly of the Republic should, annually and until 31 January, be informed by the Government on which works are being done, as well as the state in which these works are the same as the Government itself, through the Law on Investment Programming in the Forces and Security Services, which it presents annually in the Assembly of the Republic, has undertaken to do. That's what's at stake. It is a very simple proposal that has to do with transparency, I would say, with the quality of democracy, with the institutional respect between sovereign bodies, where what is required of the Government is so much so that it informs the House of the Republic about what it is doing, what it has undertaken to do, in terms of its commitment to do, through the annual presentation of the programming law in the Assembly of the Republic. This is just this and we therefore give a good opportunity for this majority to finally adopt a proposal that brings, I repeat, more rigor, more transparency and, above all, greater capacity to the Assembly of the Republic to monitor the Government. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u191	We turn to Article 257. o — Legislative authorization to standardise the concept of economic insufficiency. Mrs Inês Domingos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the left-wing compressor roll didn't save the families. The socialist, communist and blogger government speaks to their mouths full of families and equality, but in practice the majority have so far rejected all the PSD proposals that sought to make taxation more fair for families with more children. Mrs. Members, as you know, the demographic outlook in Portugal is very worrying: there are not enough births to replace the population. And in view of this, the government has no ideas. Mr President, the PSD is now presenting another important proposal for families, a proposal that seeks to establish justice and fairness in order to treat fiscally the families who, having the same income, have more children and eventually have higher charges. Therefore, we believe that the uniformization of the concept of economic insufficiency should adopt the percapitated income criterion, i.e. to weigh with equal weight all the people of the family who live from that income. We hope that this important measure of fiscal justice will not be voted on to reject this left. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u193	Mr João Galamba of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Inês Domingos, among us there is indeed a difference in philosophy in what is meant to be support for the family. The PSD has said that the family coefficient is an important measure to ensure horizontal equity, i.e. families on the same income scale but with more children have a lower IRS. With this proposal, in order to ensure horizontal equity, it undermines vertical equity because the problem is that, with this proposal, a son of a rich man will always be worth much more than a son of a poor man. However, fairness cannot be improved on one side, sacrificing the fairness of the other. The Socialist Party believes that children should have exactly the same tax treatment — the tax benefit of a poor or wealthy child is exactly the same — and then complement policies for the family, extending preschool to all children, strengthening family allowance and ending cuts in the RSI (social income of insertion), made by the PSD Government and the CDS, which have harmed more than 90 000 children. This is how families are supported on the tax side, ensuring equity, that the PSD and CDS do not recognize, strengthening the payout, betting in pre-school. This is the policy of the Government of the Socialist Party and its Parliamentary Group, and it is the one that seems most fair to us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u195	Mrs. Members, let us turn to the discussion of those articles which were only admitted yesterday in the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization and which could not be voted on because they had not yet been discussed in plenary. Let's start with Article 180. o — Amendment to the Code of Special Consumption Taxes. Mr André Silva of the NAP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u196	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members, last year, the Government created a special tax on the consumption of sugared beverages. Do so by following the recommendations of the World Health Organization ( WHO ), which supports the effectiveness of the measure in reducing sugar consumption, especially in children, and the cost savings for health systems. The NAP follows this measure. The Government followed the recommendations of the World Health Organization, followed the example of other countries, but forgot about the sugary champagne drink. Let's see: taxation affects, for example, drinks known as icetea, which has a quantity of sugar of 45 g per litre. [[At the moment, the speaker displayed an ice tea pack, indicating the amount of sugar contained.]] Taxation also affects refrigerants known as glues with a sugar quantity of 106 g per litre. The speaker also displayed a pack of glue, indicating the amount of sugar contained. But then we have the queen of sugar drinks: chocolate milk, which contains 120 grams of sugar per litre. Chocolate milk has much more sugar than soft drinks, but is taxed at a minimum rate of VAT and does not have a special tax on consumption. The speaker also displayed a pack of chocolate milk, indicating the amount of sugar contained. But why, sirs. State Secretaries? We already know what they're going to say: because milk has nutritional value. But a nutritious drink, when a colossal amount of sugar is added, ceases to be nutritious and becomes a poison. This is the amount of sugar that exists in 1 l milk with chocolate. The speaker had a glass of sugar. Nutritious, Mrs. Members of the government? I don't know if it is! That doc will be, of course. Mrs. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that the Ministry of Agriculture pays to pollute. We all know that the Ministry of the Environment is silent in the face of the serious environmental attacks of the livestock industry. But what about the Ministry of Health? Does it also place the economic interests of the industry in the face of children's health? Mrs. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members, the Ministry of Health develops campaigns against obesity and diabetes, a scourge that affects millions of citizens in Portugal, and then stimulates children to drink chocolate milk? Diabetes represents more than 10% of the total health budget in our country. Diabetes has risen by 40% in recent years. The cost of diabetes medicines is EUR 575 000 per day. In Portugal per day, EUR 575 000 is spent on diabetes medicines, a quarter of the people who die in hospitals have diabetes. In conclusion, chocolate milk contains undoubtedly greater quantities of sugar than soft drinks. Maintaining the reduced VAT rate and not affecting the special tax of sugar consumption on chocolate milk means continuing to disinform people, means being complicit in the worsening prevalence of obesity and diabetes in our country, means increasing pressure on the National Health Service and means using children as a means of obtaining easy profit for all the powerful milk industry. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u197	Mr President, I would like to thank you for disassemblying the « tent » now, if you would like. [[Laughing.]] Mr Cristóvão Crespo, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members, with the communist social front the common sense has been furnished with debate and parliamentary deliberations. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] There was only one moment when good sense prevailed: the non-approval of the tax on potatoes and cereals. Mrs. Members, the emblematic feature of this government is the imagination to create taxes. this year, it was the tax on potatoes and cereals. Getting revenue at any price was the objective, even if it is at the expense of the economy. Getting revenue, even if it had a very serious impact on the agricultural sector. Arrange revenue, even if it discriminated in tax terms against companies within the same business. Arrange revenue, even if it discriminated against products according to the form of marketing. Arrange revenue, even if it discriminated against the tax to pay if the product was packed or bulk. Getting revenue, even if it did not safeguard hygiene and consumer protection, even in terms of public health. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen. Members, to collect revenue, even if it goes against fiscal predictability, another failed promise from the government, because it does not resist to use special taxes on consumption to make the most of each Portuguese, regardless of the income available. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u199	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to the discussion of the proposal, of the PS, of the addition of Article 161. o-E — Solidarity tariff for liquefied oil gas bottled. Mr Hugo Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretarys of State, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members, the high price in the stock gas, called GPL, is a problem with decades that requires to be faced with determination based on the intransigent defense of the public interest. Even today, about 70% of Portuguese are dependent on this form of energy. Among consumers of this type of energy product, we have the most vulnerable and a significant part of the population of the country. The analysis of this market shows a set of specificities, which lead to legitimate doubts about how it works. Therefore, the current Government asked the Competition Authority to study the operation of this market, which led to storage facilities being considered of public interest. It is necessary to intervene in the price. No one understands the differences in these products between Spain and Portugal, placing tax revenues, as well as security issues in the territories. However, in addition to general measures, it was necessary to find mechanisms for the most vulnerable families. This is the energy product that families use to meet their basic needs: heating houses, heating food, etc. It is therefore necessary to intervene fairly and in these matters the Socialist Party has good examples. The current parliamentary majority has allowed us to find automations for the social electricity tariff, which today reaches 800 000 families and which with the previous government did not reach even 100 000. But even in 2010 it was the Socialist Party that proposed the social tariff. So why not take a social tariff to this market? It is in this sense that we present the proposal for the creation of this solidarity tariff that, according to the best tradition of the Socialist Party on public policies, comes to those who need it most. We will therefore build together a measure that rightly reaches the most vulnerable consumers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u201	Mrs. Members, we are now discussing the proposal, the PS, to add an article 162. o -A — Transitional measures on collection deductions to be applied to the declaration of income tax income for natural persons relating to the year 2017. Mr. Ivan Gonçalves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u202	Mr President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u203	You have the floor, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u204	Mr President, what is currently under discussion is Article 162. -A, is that it?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u205	Mr President, I have information that Mr Ivan Gonçalves is registered in Article 162. o -A, but it may be our mistake.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u206	Mr President, is it possible to identify the number of the proposal?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u207	Mr, we have only the indication of Article 162. o -A. Now, we have no possibility of indicating the number of the proposal. But does Mr Ivan Gonçalves sign up for what article?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u208	Mr. President, it is to unsubscribe Mr. Ivan Gonçalves.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u209	All right. Mrs. Members, we then turn to the General Provisions, Title I, Article 1. o. Mrs Maria Manuel Rola has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u210	Mr President, Law No 27 / 2016 provides for the establishment of a network of official collection centres and the end of the slaughter of errant animals. This Law originated in a legislative initiative of citizens and is a struggle and demand of several citizens and citizens who are years old and are now being implemented. It wasn't timeless! Now, the compulsory lifting entered in this Law will well demonstrate that in 2016 and 2017 most of the animals were still slaughtered. The numbers we have access to are clear: this was — and without support will continue to be — the usual answer. The existence in this Budget of an appropriation that directly supports municipalities to continue with the sterilization of errant animals is imperative, not only comes the money for the modernization of these official collection centres. in this sense, the Left Block proposes the inclusion of a grant of support to municipalities for 20 000 sterilizations of animals per year, which implies an overall support of 800 000 €. This was indeed a support which had already been taken by the State Secretary for Food and Veterinary Affairs and the local power to the animal protection associations and subsequently withdrew from that undertaking. Well, it is now up to this House, which voted unanimously for this Law, to return this allocation to this State budget. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u211	Mrs. Members with regard to the maps, Article 1. the proposal for a law also gives the floor to Mrs Andreia Neto of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u212	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members, the proposal for an amendment tabled by the PSD aims to correct the cut in question in the decrease of EUR 10, EUR 8 million, in which is the proposed allocation for food for the imprisoned population. We are talking about a reduction in more than 60 % of the funds for this purpose. Never was the budgeted value for prisoners' diet so low. Prisoners have never been treated in such an unworthy way, even in time of maximum financial restrictions. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, prisoners are entitled to a decent diet and it is not the fact that the Minister at the hearing justified that prisoners will not go hungry and justify this reduction. Respect for the dignity of the human person requires that the State ensure that prisoners, categorically, meals in adequate quantity, quality and presentation, which is effectively ensured only if there is an appropriate budget for this purpose. The PSD Parliamentary Group therefore proposes that the appropriations allocated be increased by EUR 10, EUR 8 million in the amount allocated for this purpose. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u213	Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u214	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a matter for which the CDS drew attention as soon as this State budget has come to our attention. Many years ago, while we were still in the government, the majority of the government today said that we had withdrawn from the food of the inmates unqualified money and that we had made prisoners starve. That's exactly what they told us. at that time, we were talking about nearly €4 per day; today, with this government budget proposal, we are talking about €1, €20 per day for prisoners' food. It is about feeding prisoners with a sum of € 1, 20 for four meals. Thus, the CDS presented a proposal to restore last year's money, i.e. to restore the 10 million missing this year. We hope that this proposal will be approved and not the same shame that has occurred during this debate of the State budget and these votes, which is that of the majority plumbar only and only the proposal of the CDS and then present exactly what we have proposed. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u215	Mr. Secretary of State of the Budget has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u216	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, just a little clarification: when we look at the budget of the prison services it is important to look at all of them. The budget of next year's prison services reaches the highest value ever, with very high growth. If there is the problem of a heading or a sub-heading is misbudgeted or improperly budgeted, this does not create a problem in the prison services, because they are free to use the budget as a whole and can, without intervention, redeploy funds from one heading to another. The most important thing is that there is a very high growth in spending on goods and services in prison services, which is far above the execution or expectations of execution this year, so that is a non-problem. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u217	Even in the context of the discussion, in the speciality of Article 1. Mr Ivan Gonçalves of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u218	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as we are at the end of this debate, this is a budget with good news for young Portuguese people, it is a budget that brings hope to all young Portuguese people, in what the State can do to help improve their lives. From now on, and just as has been discussed today, because it resumes a good practice, that all young people under the age of 18 may have a discount on the social pass of at least 25%.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u219	Be rich or poor!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u220	Strengthen, for example, the State's funds for the Porta 65 - Young Program, so that Portuguese youth can have access to a decent housing, when this is one of the problems that most affects their emancipation. This budget, at the initiative of the Government, allows for the first time the renting expenses of displaced students who have to leave their homes in order to be able to study elsewhere, to be deducted from IRS as educational expenses. And with this, it is a budget that also helps to reduce the frequency costs of higher education by Portuguese young people, frequency costs, those that are the highest at European level. This measure, together with another one, which is the suspension of the updating of the values of propines presented by the Socialist Party, can help mitigate these costs, which are very high, and not only by the values of propines, but also by indirect costs within the frequency of higher education, such as the rates and emoluments charged in institutions. But at this level too, the Socialist Party has put forward a proposal that the Government may legislate and regulate those charges which are charged. This is, therefore, a budget that brings hope, which causes the frequency costs of higher education to fall significantly in Portugal, which are truly good news for a government which, in the midst of its mandate, over the next two years and the next two that are still ahead, has done and will do a rather worthwhile work for the future of the new generations, contrary to what happened with the previous government, which, successively, forgot the one who was our future, of the bet that the Country should make in knowledge and that had indeed had its reflection, when, for several years, we saw the number of students attending higher education, trend, that which was reversed in recent years, since this government took possession. It is good news, it is a sign that Portugal is on its way and that the government is placing in Portugal an economy of knowledge rather than an economy based on emigration from those who are not well in Portugal, as did the previous government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u221	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no more entries, so we have reached the end of our agenda today. The next plenary session will be held on Monday, 27, at 3 p.m. and will have as its first item the holding of elections for three external bodies. We will choose 1 member for the Supreme Council of Internal Security, 4 members for the Regulatory Council of the Regulatory Entity for Social Communication ( ERC ) and 1 member for the Board of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic. We shall then proceed to the discussion and vote on the rules of the State Budget which the plenary has given us. at the end of the afternoon, there will be an end to the debate of the State Budget Bill for 2018 and of the Big Options of the Plan for 2018, available to the parliamentary groups of the times they already know, after what the overall final vote will take place. I wish everyone a good weekend and greet all the people who make up the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization, in particular the President and the Vice-President. Yesterday, I had the opportunity to see a part of the meeting and to understand the very difficult circumstances in which those meetings took place for hours and hours, so I would like to welcome the table and all the Members who actively participate in the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u222	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-24.u223	The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 43 minutes.]]
