ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the authorities to open the galleries. Since there is no file, we will enter directly into the agenda, which consists of a PS marking for discussion of draft resolutions 869 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement measures extending tourist demand throughout the national territory ( PS ), 871 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of measures promoting scientific tourism ( PS ) and 872 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of measures promoting health tourism ( PS ). To open the debate, Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Secretary of State for Tourism: There have never been as many tourists in Portugal as in 2016 — there were 19 million, about 2 million, 4 million per month, more than 10 % than in 2015, it was five times higher than the European average and almost three times higher than the world growth. Tourists who entered Portugal left about EUR 34, 7 million each day of 2016, i.e. EUR 1, 4 million per hour. In the total year, this sector contributed EUR 12, 7 billion, almost 11 % above 2015 revenues. With all this, tourism was responsible for almost 7 % of GDP (gross domestic product) and is one of the main drivers of job creation, already representing more than 8 % of the total. There is an inexorable conclusion in these extraordinary data: national tourism inadequacies the most dynamic sector of the Portuguese economy and reflects the ability of public policies to ensure satisfactory results for the common interest. It is true that there are those who attribute this dynamism and performance to the circumstances related to the "Arab Spring". But in 2016, in fact, the competing destinations did not grow more than Portugal nor the loss of demand due to the crises of the Middle East and North Africa, which occurred in these markets were of such a kind that they alone justified such results in Portugal. But there are conceptual and political differences that help explain much of this success observed in 2016. While the previous Government proclaimed a minimalist act, transforming the State Secretariat into a mere representation of public relations, the Socialist Party's Government regained the irreplaceable role of public policies, a role has always been neglected, and even despised, by the PSD/CDS Government, which has self-proclaimed itself contrary to the support programmes of the sector and to the definition of a national strategy that guides the tourism agents and mobilizes them in this very relevant design. In fact, for the right-wing Government, the best strategy was indeed no strategy. It was in this context that PSD/CDS never accepted the reduction of VAT (tax on value added) of restoration, penalizing employment and complicating the firm's robustness in this sector, with serious consequences for increasing unemployment. It was also in this perspective that the Government of now Mr Passos Coelho tried to dismantle tourism schools, making it impossible to strengthen training.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u3	She noticed!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u4	This vision ignored the role and importance of workers in an intensive work sector and gave up entirely to facilitate private investment, either with specific programmes, or simplifying the cost of context. This is where we show differences: we have gone a lot further and do not hesitate to take advantage of opportunities. The results of 2016 tourism and the outlook for 2017, which will have to overcome the extraordinary data last year, are a consequence of a concrete commitment in creating conditions to offer industry agents the appropriate environment to develop tourism activities. In practice, the Government of the Socialist Party raised from the ground the conduct of the tourist destinations which were delivered to its own fate, in a deliberate attitude to remove the state from the solutions which were necessary and were indispensable for the development of the sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u5	Unbelievable!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u6	Thus, in addition to the affirmation of the tourism strategy for the country, with quantified objectives and with the identification of key intervention pillars, such as the appreciation of the territory, innovation, the drive to the economy, human resources and the diversification of supply, it was absolutely necessary to lay down the sleeves and take advantage of the commitment of the agents of the sector, including the dedication and enthusiasm of the workers and the dynamics and attitude of the entrepreneurs who made themselves available to take risks, to believe in Portugal and to invest.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u7	Incredibly ridiculous!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u8	Since we arrived in the government, EUR 306 million has already been invested, creating more than 30 000 jobs. These results are a consequence of the momentum given to the implementation of Portugal 2020, but also to the implementation of specific measures to support the sector and the qualification of supply. But the stimuli of the sector and the concern about the obstacles to the practice of this activity, difficulties which the market alone did not solve, were not summarized in the financial incentives. We have introduced a new state-of-the-art relationship framework to reduce context costs but also to facilitate the lives of citizens and companies operating in tourism. The new tourist utility regime and the licensing scheme are therefore a very concrete expression. The multiplier effect of tourism on the economy is very expressive but it is the duty of the State to strive to spread the positive effects throughout the territory, even the most remote territories of the major tourist centres. That is why, too, the government did not come under its arms and did not expect the operation of the market itself to be responsible for valuing the territory. That was the passive attitude of the previous government, which we have always refused to maintain. It was therefore in this perspective that the Government launched the EUR 10 million line of incentives, which already has almost 80 projects inside. And it is also in this framework that we recommend that the Government continue this indispensable challenge of promoting the country's economic and social cohesion, finding the path, measures and framework to ensure that, in the coming years, demand in this sector continues to grow, creating wealth within and in the localities that need more wealth creation and more employment. on a different level, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group considers that the conditions for strengthening the bet on the consistency of the Portuguese tourism cluster are met. To this end, we consider it important to recognize that there are two areas that can be the target of more vigorous and consistent interventions: on the one hand, the strengthening of the wager in health tourism and, on the other hand, scientific tourism. They are aspects that take into account the national potential in these two areas but require coordination between various government ministries, enhancing cross-sectionalness and making our tourism cluster more robust, which can increase its multiplier effect. We know that none of this is entirely new, but, given the state of maturity of the sector, we have no doubt that the effort to implement an agenda capable of attracting two kinds of demanding, and of great added value, are crucial to raising the momentum of this sector to the economy and employment. I conclude by saying that we should be proud of the results achieved and of the contribution of this sector to improving the lives of Portuguese citizens, both because of the impact on employment and in the creation of wealth, but also because we should be able to guide policies in order to strengthen the sustainability of the sector. The demands we are facing today, and the evidence that this government has passed with distinction, that a State should be able to facilitate and even correct market shortcomings help us to be more demanding and to take advantage of this great opportunity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u9	Mr President, the Bureau records five entries of Members for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u10	Mr President, I will respond first to three and then to the last two.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u11	Mr António Costa Silva has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, tourism in Portugal has grown sustainably since 2010. The numbers are obvious.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u13	In 2010 was the PSD in front of the government? Oh, my God! I'm glad you take responsibility for 2010!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u14	In addition, in 2013 Portugal beat a unique record, appearing in 20. the place in the world ranking of competitiveness in tourism and travel, in 140 countries. Portugal grows above all the countries of Europe and the Mediterranean countries. Successive record is fought: no investment, in indicators. The truth is that, Mr. Member of the Socialist Party, where the government does not revert, the thing is going well. It's true! And here they have a proof, in tourism: where they don't move well! [[PSD applause.]] So what you ask is, "Don't bother; let the agents work; let the companies work! Do not keep on seeking. ” After all, what does the PS bring us here? Three draft resolutions that we didn't understand what they were, they didn't explain what they were! One is about indoor tourism, another about health tourism and another about scientific tourism. But they've hardly explained them and we're waiting! But have you recently presented a 10-year plan for tourism? Oh, my God! Have you forgotten these projects, these proposals, and have you come to present them now? We don't understand. After all, what are you bringing us back today? What a mess going on with this PS and in management! Are you against the reforms that have been made in recent years? Are they against the aggregation of the five regional tourism entities when they have ended the myriads of the tourism regions? Are they against that? Have the results not been positive for the territories? So what do you want? Oh, my God! They bring us a tourism with competences and responsibilities for the CCDRs (regional coordination and development committee), which now appear in the document, in the proposal for a job, now leave. What do you want? Do you want to bring tourism to the competences of the CIM(intermunicipal community)? Was the work done at the level of development through regional tourism entities not a good job? Well, we can say today that tourism has a new amplitude, brings a new challenge and that is what we expected to hear from the Socialist Party. But, no, they brought us a few snacks to put the theme on the table. What you're really looking for is that they bring us clarity. Tell us what they want for tourism because without it it is not worth it, if they cannot prove that the work that has been done had a plan or strategy. Just see a fundamental document, prepared in 2013, the PENT ( National Strategic Plan of Tourism ). This plan was fundamental and strategic for tourism. Do you want to kill him? Is that what you want to do? Is that the proposal? I don't know! What does the Socialist Party bring here? That is what we question and we are curious to know. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u15	For clarification, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Carlos Pereira, the PS today brings up a project on health tourism. On this subject, we began by affirming the need for this activity to be regulated and to comply with and respect the scientific standards and guidelines underlying the provision of quality and scientifically validated health care. We also affirm that the State cannot promote, with public money, the business of the private sector, either through investments and improvements in health care units, either through funding, such as successive governments, especially the PSD Government / CDS. In this regard, I recall what was said by the then building of Vila Nova de Gaia, of the PSD, about the North Rehabilitation Centre, and I quote: « Establishing an international, European or American partnership to manage and develop health tourism, so that many Europeans from class A arrive». The PCP reaffirms its commitment to always defending a universal, general and free SNS (national health service), the separation between the public sector and the private sector and rejects any derivative of generalized liberalisation and privatization of the SNS and the provision of health care. For the PCP, hospitals in the national health service should have as their main concern to solve many of the problems that are now being posed in access to health care. The initiative in question is not clear as to the definition of the State and the SNS, so we would like you to answer a few questions. What do you want for the SNS? What's the role of the state? Does the State finance private activity? Do you make public investments so that they will be handed over to the private? Is this what is expressed in the statement "to ensure multidisciplinary collaboration between health care providers, whether public or private intuitions, health professionals"? It is also important to clarify what this is, and I quote, 'to promote the training of health professionals in this area'? Is it once again the State to finance or divert professionals who, in fact, lack the National Health Service so much? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u17	For the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Paulino Ascension now has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the PS brings three proposals that are nice about its object, to its statement, but of little content. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u19	The first proposal recommends that the Government promote measures that extend tourism throughout the national territory. We certainly follow this purpose, but what measures are these, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen? The recommendation is a little empty, it does not suggest a single concrete measure and we can summarize this proposal as follows: « Mr. the Secretary of State, Mr Member of the Government, do anything to take tourism to the whole territory». [[Northern Cristovão PSD member's laughs.]] I would like to stress that we are also concerned about the unequal development of tourism activity, but not only that of the national territory, and that public intervention is needed to correct the situation, because the market, left to its free performance, can only accentuate the current imbalances. Another initiative contained here speaks of scientific tourism. Well, it would be appropriate to define, better specify what is intended with this. Will scientific tourism be a subsegment of cultural tourism? of nature tourism? Will it be in the interest to visit museums, laboratories, archaeological sites, natural landscapes? But tourism is a leisure activity and this resolution also talks about scientific research, development, master's studies, field work. But this is work, it's not tourism! [[PSD laughter.]] Not that these recommendations are negative, we follow them, but in order to clarify, it is good to separate things. When it comes to attracting foreign students and researchers, promoting international partnerships, promoting science and technology at universities or promoting the quality of research in Portugal, tourism is not being discussed. They are positive proposals and we hope that they will come true — certainly! — but if we are going to attract foreign students and researchers — and very well! — let us first give conditions to our researchers and students so that they can develop their potential in the country, we will strengthen the budgets of universities and give conditions of professional stability so that our young people do not have to leave the country because they need to do so for curriculum enrichment but always have the possibility to return. Having faculties and laboratories of excellence, a growing scientific production, will be a strong attraction factor for students and researchers, for the development of scientific tourism and the whole economy. Finally, the proposal to develop health tourism meets one of the strongest trends identified by specialists, which is the ageing of the population, which will increase the demand for this segment of health and well-being tourism. We can call it 'grey tourism', but it is not a seal, on the contrary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u20	Grey tourism! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u21	This tourism will have an increasing weight and this type of tourist enjoys experiences and activities that make it feel young, which are physically and psychologically stimulating. But a health tourism bet will be condemned if you live with reports of traumatic experiences experienced by tourists when, by contingency, you have to move to the emergency services of our hospitals. Therefore, a health tourism bet is incompatible with the degradation of the SNS and the first step of this strategy will be to invest in health to provide services of excellence, both to tourists and residents. The reputation of the national health service as a whole, yes, will attract tourists to specialized treatments. We have the example of Cuba, where many Portuguese are looking for treatment,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u22	Sir, I ask you to finish. We had agreed that it would not exceed four minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u23	...because you have a medicine of excellence. In short, our recommendation aims at more public investment in health and education, taking advantage of the budget strike provided by the good performance of the economy to promote growth, yes, tourism and economic activity in general. This is the way to achieve the balance of public accounts. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u24	To reply, Mr. Carlos Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u25	Mr President, first of all, thank you very much to the honourable Members. Deputies António Costa Silva, Carla Cruz and Paulino Ascension for the issues that have raised me. As soon as possible, I will try to respond to all of them. Starting with the questions put by Mr António Costa e Silva, I will tell you that the people used to say « by the mouth the fish dies» and Mr Deputy, in his speech, did so because he demonstrated to agree with what was the main criticism of my speech concerning your government, that is to say, he has done absolutely nothing about tourism. He gave up tourism on his own and the results were worse than they could have been. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] And we, Mr.António Costa Silva, did not say that the results had been bad, what we said was that they were extraordinary in 2016 and the responsibility for this is also, and above all, the public policies that this Government, the Socialist Party, has implemented. [[PSD protests.]] Mr President, so that there is no doubt about it, I will speak to you about facts. Between 2011 and 2015, the average growth rate of tourism employment was 1, 1 % ; the average growth rate of tourism employment in 2016 was 14, 2 %. Sir, do you know why this happened? I will give you one example: it is because in 2015 we did what should have been done long ago, that is to say, we reduced the VAT of restoration, which you never wanted to do, and with it we created a lot of work. It was not the work of the Divine Holy Spirit, it was not the work of chance, it was concrete measures taken by this government that had this impact. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD laughter.]] But there is more, Mr. Member : between 2011 and 2015 the results of the hotel revenues have resulted in an increase of 5, 4 % — they have grown, as you said, and you are right. But do you know how much the increase was in 2016? It was 17%! You think it was random work? Do you think it was the work of the Divine Holy Spirit? It was not, it was the result of concrete public policies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But there is even more, Mr. Deputies. With regard to sleeping outside the high season, an important issue to ensure that all stations have quality tourism and are able to add wealth, between 2011 and 2015, the increase was 4, 6 %, with your Government ; in 2016, with the public policies presented, including the expansion of activities throughout the year, the increase was 10, 9 %. Finally, the deconcentration throughout the territory was brutal in all regions away from the major tourist centres. So, Mr President, let me make it very clear: you are right, you have done nothing, your strategy was to have no strategy, you have let the market work and, with that, you have not been able to take advantage of the opportunities, which all the tourism had. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u26	Mrs Carla Cruz, on health tourism, I want to tell you that we agree. We do not advocate or advocate that there is a deregulation of the sector, we do not advocate or advocate that there is a privatization of the sector, that is not what the Socialist Party recommends. We agree that it must be a priority for the SNS to ensure that Portuguese citizens have access to quality services, we have absolutely no doubt, but we also believe that the country must be able to take advantage of the potential it has from this point of view, whether in the public sector or in private. Therefore, we believe it is absolutely essential that there is fine and deep coordination in the government, between the Ministry of Economics and Health, in order to find an action plan that guarantees and ensures that it is possible to increase demand in this sector, which is of great added value and is very useful for the country and for citizens and, of course, also for private companies in the sector. Mr Paulino Ascenção, you criticized the Socialist Party's recommendations for presenting scarce proposals. I want to say and point out that the recommendations are very concrete. With regard to health tourism, we propose a concrete agenda of measures, particularly something that we find very important, which is a great coordination between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Economics, so that this agenda can be implemented. We do not want to do working groups, we do not want to do things « to see», as it is said, we want concrete things so that this intention can be successful to boost the tourism cluster and add more value to national tourism. On scientific tourism, he also wanted to say that he must know that there are higher education schools in Portugal today, some private, other public, which have plans themselves to attract scientific tourism. So, what we propose is that you also take advantage of this potential and systematize this idea that it is possible to have new searches, more demanding and value-added searches. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u27	Mr Carlos Pereira, as you know, the Bureau has filed two further requests for clarification, the first of which is from Mrs Ana Virgínia Pereira, of the CFP Parliamentary Group. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Carlos Pereira, of the motion for a resolution that brings us today the debate, based on recommendations that are related to the promotion of the quality of research and its institutions in Portugal, or the promotion of an institutional partnership programme between science and technology or, in addition, the promotion of contacts with researchers and qualified foreign frameworks, we can say that they are important proposals and would certainly contribute to increasing knowledge and cooperation between countries and even to the scientific and technological development of our country. But these proposals, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who are standing against a wall that is too high and which is urgently important to transport: the state of development of the national scientific and technological system, which, as a valuable and powerful instrument for the integrated and harmonious development of a country, has been dismantled, underfunded, precarious, unstable and insufficient in the face of the country's needs. For the PCP, what is a priority is the significant increase in funds allocated to the institutions of the SCTN (National Science and Technology System ), providing them with adequate resources. What matters is an effective fight against precariousness in this sector and the guarantee of workers' rights. What is needed is to invest in state laboratories in a structural and non-conjunctural and uncertain way. What is needed is to create conditions so that the tens of researchers invited by the PSD Government and the CDS to emigrate can return to their country and make their valuable and indispensable contribution to the construction of a more developed country, with greater technological and more modern potential. Mr President, do you really believe that, with so many basic needs of the national scientific system to be answered, national priority is scientific tourism? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u29	To conclude the requests for clarification, Mr Hélder Amaral of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u30	Mr President, Mrs State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Carlos Pereira, I confess that he had an enormous expectation in the intervention of V.E.A.,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u31	Oh! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u32	...until you know that you know that tourism realizes something, even if it's in the tourist version,... [[PSD laughter.]] ... once you live on an island where, of course, tourism is a great activity. But I was left with the feeling that I had been on a long vacation and, therefore, did not realize anything about what happened in tourism in recent years. Starting with scientific tourism, did you find out only now that universities have numerous foreign students, research centres or new technologies? [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u33	Mr President, I would like to remind you of a journey that we both made, a little while ago, to something I thought funny and called Ribeira Brava Valley—it is not yet implemented, but it will be. You invited me to go see a research centre for business incubators in Madeira. Do you know how many foreign researchers and scientists we found there? Almost all of them. So, what you are proposing already exists, on the island where you live, there has been a long time ago and it is already bearing fruit. [[CDS-PP applause.]] It would make sense if you could carry out a little more, say what is the national strategy to capture more or to strengthen or protect those signs that already exist, what are the preferential markets, what money, which funding are prepared for universities, from then on for research centres, for the various institutes, so that we can strengthen that market which is indeed a relevant market. On this matter, you said nothing, but you have a new opportunity here. Furthermore, Mr President, even because an interesting role has been distributed to us—I thought it had more content, but finally, the color is not bad, it has interesting photographs, too—I do not know if this is the whole of the public policies that the Government has carried out and that Exa said it was the only government that did it, because the previous government has done nothing. But if this is a public policy agenda, we're talking. The honourable Member, by chance, does not attribute any good measure to the previous government, such as the one which reduced the tourism regions, making them more competent, more focused and more effective, giving them a dignified status and giving them means? In his view, did this reduction, made against the will of many people, including the Socialist Party, have any effect on a more focused promotion in the interior of the country and in the regions of the country? Think about it or not? And in order to be serious in the debate, does he or she consider that the amendments we have made to the labour laws—is that, if you understand anything about tourism, you realize that tourism needs different labour laws from any other sector, for seasonality, for the period of work, for everything else—and allowing it to adapt to tourism, did you have anything to do with the data you are presenting here? If we want to be serious, we'll say yes. And we will say until we need to protect these changes from labour laws, keep them and perhaps even strengthen them. Now, if you think that wasn't important, then I don't know what to say. Do you think that in the adjustment period the promotion focused on certain sectors, of course, on invitations to journalists from the sector, from trade, who came to Portugal and made the real promotion of tourism, which may have given rise to documents like these? That's what you did. Do you think that's wrong or not? Or are you still engaged in Allgarve promotion, which was everything at the same time? [[That's right! Well remembered! That's what it is!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u34	But I want to end with another question, because here is another idea that started in the previous government — and I will not give only merit to the previous government, because the results in tourism are a set of public policies, over time, of several governments, in particular...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u35	Sir, it's been over four minutes. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u36	I'll finish. As for health tourism, I almost subscribe to what the other banks have said. I'd like you to tell me the following: What valence are you thinking about? What markets are you thinking about? What hospitals are you thinking about? What protocols have you done? What agreements have you made? It is simply not possible to come here in general, not with an idea that has ‘legs to walk’ and that you have disavowed, having made no intelligent contribution to the debate. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u37	To reply, Mr. Carlos Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Virginia Pereira and Hélder Amaral, thank you very much for the questions. Mr. Hélder Amaral, let me confirm that I like to do tourism and enjoy making trips, but I must also say that the example you set, of the trip we made together, is not the best example. [[CDS-PP protests.]] In any case, I would also like to tell the honourable Member that making politics seriously is not necessarily an original competition. And under no circumstances did I say, in my speech or at any time, that these diplomas that have been presented are completely original diplomas. I also pointed out that this is nothing new and that some of these subjects have already been touched in the country and are played in both the public and private sectors. I also mentioned, in response to a previous Member who, with regard to scientific tourism, there are Portuguese universities today to make plans for scientific tourism, which, in our view, are very relevant, so we consider, contrary to what you consider, because you think that the State should not have public policies, should not intervene, that we should help associations and universities to ensure that this scientific tourism can be achieved. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now, you think we should not do anything and not intervene in the same matters. That is what you said during your speech. I conclude my reply by reminding you that, in an interview given to i, recently by the former Secretary of State for Tourism, who belongs to your bench, I read exactly this which I will mention: « I am completely insensitive to the needs of the tourism sector ». This was said by a State Secretary of Tourism who has been there for four years. Mr President, do you think this is something relevant, which is still the sector and which contributes to the sector being, in fact, a strong, robust sector with a guarantee of more growth and more revenue for the country? Mrs Virgínia Pereira, I would like to point out that I did not say, nor is it written, that the diploma and recommendation for the promotion of scientific tourism was a national priority. We also agree that there is a set of priorities here within the framework of the scientific and technological system, which we must take into account. But I also want to remember that the country has already made a very significant path in this area. It is good to remember that Research and Development (I§D) in GDP has grown significantly in recent years, and this is a positive factor and a positive potential that can also be used for this area of tourism. I think we should have the ability and courage to bet on these new demands and on this new type of tourism, because it can add value, wealth and employment to the country. This is our vision. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u39	You now have the floor of the Secretary of State for Tourism for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning to all. First of all, I wanted to say that the government is moving where necessary, not moving what is not necessary — and that is what we have done. I want to make sure that we do, modify and put public policy implementation on the ground whenever necessary. I would also like to stress and remind the ladies. Members of the PENT are not from 2013 — there is a serious misunderstanding here — it is from 2007. In 2013, what happened was the downward review of goals, because the government at that time found that the 2007 targets were too ambitious. Now, what we found in 2016 was that we finally reached the goals that we had set in 2007 because they were ambitious but had appropriate measures to achieve them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I understand that then, when ambitious measures are not implemented to achieve the goals, if you are afraid of not meeting them and if you have to review them below. In any case, I wanted to share with you that tourism is the main domestic export activity and has, as we all know, come to consolidate its weight in the economy and affirm its strategic importance in the development model of Portugal. The year 2016, as everyone has already mentioned, was a record year, which demonstrated that there are no unquestionable myths. Seasonality has shown that it can be mitigated, growth can be sustainable, tourism can be an engine for development in several regions of the country and not just some. I always remember that in 2016, 70% of the growth we had of the search happened out of the high season — this was a historical result in terms of the ability to bring people out of the traditional high season to the country. Hotel revenues and revenues have grown at a much higher rate than the increase of tourists, which shows that we are able to grow more in value than in number of tourists who are visiting us. Another very positive aspect was the growth in the balance of tourism, which grew by about 12, 7%. And, more importantly than all this, tourism has shown the great capacity to create jobs, which had not been able to demonstrate between 2011 and 2015. In 2016, it grew 14, 2 % and only in the first quarter of this year of 2017, in the traditional low season we all know, hotels and restaurants created 39,700 jobs — that is, I repeat, in months of traditional low season, in which tourism did not have great demand. Also very important is the fact that growth is happening throughout the country and not only in traditional regions. There was growth in all regions, with particular emphasis on the Azores, with 21 % growth, port and north and Alentejo growth. The Azores, Porto and North and Alentejo, in 2016, more than tripled the rate of growth verified since 2011. In 2017, we are also having a very positive development in the first half, despite the « Easter effect ». As we know, the Easter in 2016 was in March, and in 2017, it was in April, and even with this difference in the weight of Easter, which we know is a very important moment, in particular in terms of national tourism and demand by Spaniards, we are with growths of 7% of the guests and of 12, 4% of the tourist revenues — that is with the spread of the Easter effect. For the first time in 2017, we are not having one month below 1 million guests, that is, every month we are able to exceed 1 million guests, even in low-season months, i.e., January, February and March. The results show that focused work, with clear objectives, joint and joint, allows to affirm tourism as a sustainable activity, and not merely seasonal throughout the year, which allows to add value. We do not delude ourselves, and we do not let ourselves be intoxicated with the results. There is still much to be done and, unlike other opinions, I do not agree that tourism is going for you. Tourism does not work for itself, it is necessary to act on its critical factors. And we have great challenges: to grow more in value than in number of tourists, and thus to ensure an increasingly qualified, differentiated offer with the ability to attract markets that spend more; to be smart in the markets that we are achieving; to deconcentrate the demand throughout the year actively and to act so that this happens, ensuring, of course, that we diversify the offer we have to offer to those who visit us throughout the year; and also to ensure that we have air connections throughout the year to the destinations we are interested in. This has been the main critical factor that has allowed more and more tourists to come to Portugal in the low season. We must also dynamize internal tourism and the enlarged Iberian market. As a big challenge, we also have to deconcentrate the search throughout the territory, which is happening, but we need to accelerate this process and get the map of Portugal opened. Portugal is far more than traditional tourist regions, and that is the great challenge, to show the diversity and wealth of our offer and to have attractive products that respond to demand needs. Therefore, after one year of discussion on the ground with all public and private actors, we launched the new strategy for 2027, precisely because the PENT approved in 2007 was a plan that ended in 2015 and we did not have a strategy for the following years. Thus, we launched the strategy for the next 10 years, with quantitative, measurable, clear and ambitious goals and goals. Our goals are of economic sustainability, as traditionally tourism activity has, but for the first time, we clearly assume the need for social sustainability and environmental sustainability goals. We have put in the priorities of public policies the qualification of human resources in tourism, but also ensure that the resident populations actually consider tourism positive in the development of their territory. At the level of environmental sustainability, we clearly assume that tourism is an instrument that also has the responsibility of being the country's own transformation engine in terms of environmental sustainability. Yesterday—I don't know if you've had any knowledge—we had a partnership implemented on the ground between environment and tourism, in the Algarve, in order to transform and affirm the Algarve as a sustainable tourism destination, in particular with a new electrical mobility project, in which tourism and environment are partners for the implementation of a system of electric chargers in all municipalities — 32 electric chargers — and the placement of rent-a-cars in the Algarve, precisely to initiate this movement, also associated with a movement of soft and sustainable mobility development projects in the Algarve. It is essential that, for tourism activity, we continue to ensure air competitiveness and new routes throughout the year, the dynamisation of investment, the diversification of products, the promotion of our country's diversity, the qualification and the valorization of people working in tourism. What are we doing in these areas? With regard to the promotion of air competitiveness, we are undertaking new operations. Between 2016 and 2017, we achieved 138 new air operations, especially links to new destinations, and the expansion of operations all year round, of which I stress the duplication of air capacity to the United States, the new flight between China and Portugal, which will take place on 26 July, the expansion of operations with Scandinavia and Germany all year round and a new charter operation to Japan, a direct flight to Japan that will take place this year, as a market test operation to see how the link to this new destination results. We have also implemented several measures to respond to the financial difficulties of tourism companies, which we all know existed and suffocated many of our small and medium-sized tourism companies, particularly in the restoration sector. We resumed SIMPLEX +, with the obvious result that, already in 2016, we were able to go up for the first time to 14. the place of the competitiveness index in tourism, and I believe we will rise even more in the coming years. We are working hard with the agents in the territory, with the regional tourism agencies, to value our territory and our heritage, from now on with anchor projects that have certainly heard of: the REVIVE, the All for All programme, to transform Portugal into a destination for all and not only for some, the program of tourism enhancement of the interior, following the National Programme for Territorial Cohesion, and also the bet on products of diversification of the territory, namely Portuguese Trails and religious tourism, with emphasis on the paths of Fatima, which we are structuring and promoting internationally. We are working hard to promote a new way of communicating Portugal, and I hope that it will also be you. Members sharing our new campaign, Can’t Skip Portugal, showing a different Portugal, which is much more than a sun and beach Portugal. We are working hard to capture congresses and events for Portugal : still this week we have, for the first time, had the luxury congress of the Financial Times, which brought together about 200 luxury editors and CEO (executive chief officers) of reference in Portugal, we have just won, for 2018, the holding of the conference of the Condé Nast in Portugal and at this time we already have 66 new events picked up for 2017. We are also encouraging innovation, particularly through the free Wi-Fi programme in historical centres. Finally, but more importantly, we are clearly making a big bet on people and on the qualification of human resources, because we know that the cooling that has been given to tourism schools in recent years has prevented us from having on the labour market human resources that respond to the search we are feeling. By the way, I wanted to leave a note about the magazine that was published following the coming to Portugal in the first quarter of 2017, not from a commercial journalist, but from a Brazilian American Express reference journalist. The magazine was entirely dedicated to Portugal, and was distributed to Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out a phrase which the journalist pointed out about what he has now seen in Portugal as a country « in boiling» and « in a new soul» : « (...) who has received me was a country full of energy, vibrant and with eyes focused on the future, inspired by the same courage that has made it embrace the seas so far unknown for more than 500 years. This is what anyone who comes to Portugal sees and shares internationally. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u41	For several years this has happened, fortunately, and we hope that it will continue!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u42	This is what people are feeling that Portugal has to offer, at this moment, and certainly it is not that it is not the number of personalities that choose Portugal to live, invest, work and study. I would like to tell you that this is just the reflection of what is being lived in Portugal right now, this great capacity to build bridges and lay walls down. I would finish this by recalling a verse that everyone knows, of course, but it is always good to remember: "On land/ On all borders/ Be welcome to come for good. » That is what Portugal is currently demonstrating to the world it can do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u43	Mr. Secretary of State for Tourism, five were registered. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. You will be pleased to inform the Bureau of how you intend to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u44	I am responding to a block of three, first of all, and then to the other two, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u45	To ask for clarification, then you have the floor to Mrs Rita Rato.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary of State for Tourism, we wanted to address a dimension which has not yet been under discussion but which is inconsequential and which concerns the other side of the currency of tourism: the working conditions of the workers in the sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u47	It's been a while! I was distracted!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u48	Despite the frankly positive results that tourism has presented, it is not possible to value tourism without valuing workers' rights. The truth is that the workers in the sector have little sense, to say almost nothing, the effects and impacts of tourism. I would like to ask you a specific question, relating to the fact that the Hotel Crowne Plaza de Vilamoura has initiated the illegal dismissal of union leaders, delegates and activists for having participated in a demonstration in front of the hotel, demanding compliance with collective bargaining and the guarantee of workers' rights. These workers were illegally fired, only because they concentrated in front of this five-star hotel in Vilamoura, which has certainly had frankly positive results that workers want to see translated into their living conditions. Even more serious, Mrs. Secretary of State, was the response of the ACT (Working Conditions Authority), saying that there was no illegality. The workers are in struggle, this struggle is largely involved and last week the workers reaffirmed the need to be reinstated in the hotel. So this is a matter that requires an answer. Mr. Secretary of State, the problem with tourism is that the increase in number of beds, the increase in number of visits and the increase in number of tourists also means the use of temporary work, when in many situations we are not talking about temporary work. The Sheraton Hotel, in Lisbon, has fired effective workers and hired temporary workers, as well as having fired two pregnant workers in violation of the Commission's opinion on Equal Labour and Employment. Therefore, what we want to say in this debate, the Secretary of State, is that it is not possible to value tourism without fulfilling collective bargaining, without ensuring respect for the fundamental rights of workers, because this is an inseparable dimension of the development of the country. That is why we will continue to beat ourselves, because this is a fundamental issue in the lives of workers. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u49	Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u50	Mr President, the Secretary of State for Tourism, I am more relieved to know that this is an eminently private activity. There is no axe that cuts the entrepreneurial roots of private companies in this sector, which has been resilient and has been able to overcome difficulties, even when public policies are not so good. But it is very little for a State Secretary to just read statistics and make the obvious observation, so today's debate should be taken advantage of to go a little further. I haven't even mentioned this matter to Mr. Carlos Pereira, who is now not here,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u51	He is, he is! He's here!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u52	... but I could remind you - as I can also remind the Secretary of State and ask you what is being done on this subject - of the liberalisation of air transport to the Azores, which has resulted in what the Secretary of State has just acknowledged: this is the region of the country that is growing most in tourism.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u53	Exactly! Now! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u54	Therefore, for those who felt that the previous government's public policy was null, there is Mr César who will certainly confirm that the fact that we have liberalized air transport to the Azores has resulted in an increase in tourism, which is still far from what we want, for the benefit of the region itself.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u55	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u56	So I would like to ask you what strategies the government has today to pick up new routes—I am even giving you the opportunity to shine, see! — for the collection of new markets. What are the markets that are identified? Are we or are we not promoting the German market, for which we had a major problem? I have just asked a question which has not been answered and which has to do with the labour laws, not in the view presented by the Communist Party here, but to the extent that I know that workers, such as entrepreneurs, are interested in ensuring that tourism runs well and that the government does not want to interfere, so they need stable labour laws and, essentially, training. With this, I am giving the Secretary of State another opportunity to shine very brightly, which is to tell me what happens with training in the tourism sector in the country. It is that the human component in tourism is fundamental, because I can have a five-star hotel but I need to have competent technicians. What really are the lines of support? What is being done within the framework of Portugal 2020? It is because the President of the Portuguese Tourism Confederation says that « we understand that the structure of this Community framework, as well as its lines of action, is not the most favourable for tourism», and I would like the Secretary of State to comment on this statement. I would also like to tell you, Madam Secretary of State, that I have to vote on a draft resolution on tourist measures throughout the national territory. And in the resolution it is said that the Assembly of the Republic resolves, in terms of « such and such », « to recommend to the Government to promote the implementation of measures extending tourist demand throughout the national territory ». This is what I have to vote for and thank you for being able to tell me what this means. I confess I have some difficulty in understanding, but I'm going to make an effort. Does that mean that we should bet on SIMPLEX +, that the Secretary of State spoke recently? Does it mean that we have to bet on cruise tourism, that the Secretary of State said nothing, but on which I give her another chance to shine? Does it have anything to do with golf? Does it have anything to do with gastronomy, heritage, religious tourism? These are tourist products that permeate the entire national territory. Parliament approved, last week, on the initiative of this bench, the valorisation of the Sanctuary of Lapa. The Secretary of State spoke only of Fatima but the first Marian shrine was that of Our Lady of Lapa, which is situated in a vast region whose recovery is the responsibility of the socialist government, to a large extent. So, Madam Secretary of State, to conclude, I wanted to tell you that statistics are only not enough, they need concrete ideas and proposals. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u57	Mr Paulino Ascenção has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u58	Mr President, the Secretary of State for Tourism, has provided us with very important data, positive data on the development of tourism and the Portuguese economy, and we are pleased to hear this information. I also want to follow the concerns already expressed about the quality of work relations, because it is the workers who guarantee the quality of the final product of the services provided in tourism. That, therefore, is a matter of great concern to us. But on the central theme of today's debate, the Secretary of State did not develop many ideas. How to take tourism to the whole territory? How to take advantage of important assets, such as Côa engravings, Évora Chromeleque and other megalytic monuments, for example, that fit this idea of scientific tourism? How to combat desertification in the area of health, take advantage of spas, dynamize them, make them dynamizers for neighboring territories, not only with tourist vocation, but also connected with the National Health Service and the service of tourists and Portuguese, residents? The protection of nature, landscape, new trends, new activities, trails, cycling and walking tours are subjects to develop and compete for a greater balance in the economic development of our country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u59	To reply, you have the floor to Ms. State Secretary for Tourism, Ana Mendes Godinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on the first issue concerning Crowne Plaza, I had the opportunity to meet with the workers personally and understand what was going on. I am going to follow up on the matter, because it is in court right now, and we cannot replace ourselves at this stage. With regard to the valuation of workers, I would like to highlight, firstly, the increase in national minimum wage, which I consider to be an important sign that has been given to workers. I would also like to refer to the release of the collective contract, in particular with regard to the AHRESP Convention ( Association of Hoteleries, Restoration and Similarities of Portugal) with regard to the restaurants, and also to the extension door for restaurants and drinks, which has now been published in 2017. I would also like to tell you that we are, in fact, very much betting on the training and qualification of people, particularly with the strength we are giving to the 12 hotels and tourism schools—and now I am taking advantage of it to announce, first of all, that we will open on May 29th, the Setúbal implementation hotel, which has been closed and unused since it was completed, that is, 4 years ago, in 2013. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This hotel will have a great novelty: this time it will be explored, managed, by the students themselves. It is an innovative project, as it will be the students themselves managing the application hotel together. I think it's good news, too, in terms of innovative project being launched. I also wanted to note that we launched a new training programme for the Algarve, which is called FormAlgarve, risking what was previously about hiring trainees for the Algarve, which was very privileged, as we know, short-term contracts. What we have done was we have approved a new regime in which the requirements are that the workers covered are at work at least 12 months and workers with permanent contracts, which are in the framework, cannot be dismissed. We have good news: the programme was launched in November and currently 70% of the contracts covered by this programme are workers in the framework. I think it's a very good news, in order to change the contract paradigm, and this can only happen if we have a sustainable activity throughout the year, and that's why we're all working on it. Mr. Hélder Amaral is right when he says that I have good reason to talk about what we are doing at the level of airline pickup, because I have good numbers. As you know, we have created a specific program for the capture and promotion of air routes and tourist operations, with tourist operators, and it is not only to capture the routes, it is also to ensure that they are occupied... [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Hélder Amaral.]] No, sir, there was none in force. It was only correct, there was none in force. As I have already said, we have 138 new operations with new destinations, including Toronto, Budapest, Warsaw, Vienna, Basel and Boston, and, more importantly than this, is indeed the great capacity that this has had to bring results to the markets. It is enough to see at the moment that the markets in Brazil, which are growing by 80 %, of the United States, which is growing by 42 %, of the Netherlands, which is growing by 23 %, that is to say, we are actually achieving a great diversification of markets so that we are not only dependent on traditional markets, because, as we know, often this dependence has problems. With regard to markets, if you would like to consult the Tourism Strategy 2027 ( ET 27 ), you will see that we have clearly identified our strategic betting and diversification markets. He has certainly heard that we are continuing a very aggressive campaign on the German market at the moment, particularly in terms of MICE ( Meetings, Incentives, Conventions and Exhibitions ). Still this week, Tourism in Portugal was present at IMEX, a special event event and congress gathering, and we are currently looking for Portugal to hold this kind of congress. We also have good news about the MICE. As you know, this year Portugal first entered the top 10 ranking of the ICCA (International Congress and Convention Association ) of the countries organizing congresses. By the way, I also take advantage of giving you another first-hand news:...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u61	You have to say that to the PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u62	It had to be me helping, because from there, the PS, nothing came of it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u63	... we will launch, still this month, a platform of Portugal dedicated to the MICE. Portugal will have, for the first time, a platform with all the infrastructure offers for the conduct of congresses and events, with the schedule of the congresses and events that take place in Portugal, so that the offer can be equipped and prepared, and also, I think, a very interesting measure, which, moreover, consists of the Simplex and which is the following: this portal, this platform will start to inform the public spaces that are available for the holding of events and congresses so that they can be booked in a transparent way and be accessible to all. With regard to PT2020, I miss the statements because I think who drew the picture was the previous government. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Hélder Amaral.]] Under the conditions of the PT2020, there are a few things with which we do not agree, namely the maturity of the operations, which is 10 years, and, in order to try to address this problem, what we have done, in line with the qualification of the offer,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u64	Madam Secretary of State, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u65	... we create the possibility of being operations at 15 years. I now report that we now have 50 million paid operations and that we have achieved something that the previous government had dropped, which is the fact that tourism in Portugal is a paying entity, to speed up the process. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u66	Mr Hugo Pires has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u67	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, when we talk about the successive growth records that the tourism sector has reached over recent times and when we do the exercise of understanding the reason that has led us here, we have, inevitably — and as Mr Costa and Silva said — to turn back to the former Government of the Socialist Party to understand the reasons that have motivated the success of tourism activity in Portugal. It was during this period that a public policy was developed, based on a strategic vision based on a set of legislative and administrative measures that supported it. at this time, it was developed and approved the Tourism Strategy for a time horizon of 10 years, which was a great example of planning, involving the public and private sector and civil society. at first, the previous government still fell into the temptation to reduce the intensity in the implementation of these public policies of appreciation of the sector. Moreover, this same Government — PSD Government / CDS-PP — has not missed the opportunity to close a number of tourist schools, thus delaying the bet on the increasing qualification of our human resources. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But it was also in 2006 that the Government decided to set up tourism in Portugal as an institution, which centralized all the competences and responsibilities of coordination and public intervention in the tourism sector. of the policies that were then initiated, it is necessary to distinguish the three most relevant to the fact that tourism has become one of the main economic activities in Portugal: the first is the policy of qualification and requalification of tourism supply; the second refers to the qualification of human resources, and today the prestige linked to some professions of the sector is undeniable; the third concerns the tourist promotion that, over time, has adapted to the new media and social networks that have emerged, allowing enormous success in the dissemination of the different territories of the country. Given all this history and the responsibilities that the Secretary of State had at the time, and had, in the implementation of these public policies, however, I would like to tell her about her responsibilities in the sector and understand the future, I refer to the Tourism Strategy 2027. in this context, I ask you to tell me what you have planned to qualify for tourism and to strengthen the training of human resources and the professions of the tourism sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u68	To conclude the requests for clarification, Mr Antonio Costa Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u69	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State, we have been able to see, through a smile on your face, that the Socialist Party's proposals are innocuous, so little useful, they do not bring content.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u70	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u71	They're kind of Improving, they don't do good or they don't hurt! They're something!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u72	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u73	And we're here arguing, I don't know what, but finally! Madam Secretary of State, it would be all right to thank — I do not say to the previous government — the entrepreneurs, agents, operators, investors, the presidents of regional tourism agencies ( Dr. Melchior Moreira, Dr. Pedro Machado, Dr. Cea da Silva, Dr. Desiderio Silva ) for the excellent work they have done over the years. They did it and they're there, and good! And because they do a good job! After hearing the sound of nonsense about what was the past and verbal terrorism and spending a sponge on a shameful past...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u74	Shameful was your government!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u75	... of the governance of the Socialist Party and of the heritage that have left us, what we want to know, in particular,... [[PS protests.]] ... is the following: after all, what does the Secretary of State bring us here, in particular, on regional tourism institutions? What is the project of the future? What reform do you have? I wonder why the reform of the past in 2012, when ending that myriad of tourism regions, ended with EUR 1 million of costs. We improved tourism, we had more tourism, new products, more identity in the territory and territories. In fact, we paid €6.7 million of short-term debts...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u76	What a cry! It was zero what they did!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u77	...and EUR 3, EUR 7 million of medium-term debts in these tourism regions, that's what you left us as an inheritance. We ended up with the tachos and the tachios of the leaders, we passed from 45 to 10 leaders...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u78	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u79	They made zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u80	We have passed from 45 leaders of the tourism regions to 10 leaders of the regional tourism entities. We're done with the tachos and the tachos! [[PS and PCP protests.]] After all, what are you gonna do? Are tourism going to the CCDRs (regional coordination and development committee)? Are you going to pass him over? Now enter the program, in the project of the working document, now exit, enter again...! How are we? Are you going to pass the tourism to the CIM(intermunicipal community)? Is that it? Do you want to stop what was good done? [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u81	Mr. Secretary of State, concluding: « On land/ On all borders/ (...) », be welcome to see you well. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u82	To reply, you have the floor to Ms. State Secretary for Tourism, Ana Mendes Godinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u83	Mr President, Mr Paulino Ascension, first of all asked what kind of projects we had to dynamize the whole territory and not just traditional regions. at this moment, we are implementing a program that we have approved and that is called Interior Tourism Valorization, which identifies 12 anchor projects to do so. Very quickly, they are projects that have to do with tourism of nature and with tourism of health and well-being. We are doing, together with science, a survey of the natural and cultural heritage that exists throughout the country as a form of promotion. We have also created two working groups, one for the thermal and the other for health tourism, in order to put these products on the ground and to dynamize. Under the Valorizar programme, which we launched, we already have about 179 projects submitted throughout the territory, worth EUR 36, 2 million. Mr Hugo Pires, the question of the qualification of persons has been key to our intervention. From now on, I can tell you that we will open a new school in Portimão ; at the moment, we are completing the architectural projects to start the work. We have done the retraining of the Faro school, which is already completed, and we have been working hard with market operators and public authorities for the review of school curricula, which is now closed and will start to be put into practice in the next school year. For the first time, we have created a network between politicians, hotel and tourism schools and higher education institutions, in order to work together to plan the supply of human resources and the training needed throughout the country and to avoid « chapels ». With regard to chapels, I always like to say that this government was the first to pay attention and that it is working very intensively in religious tourism — which even seems a little strange, taking into account the previous government. Regarding the qualification of the offer, we have several concrete projects to be implemented, to dynamize and diversify products. I can tell you that at the moment, at the level of projects encouraged in tourism, we have 619 projects approved, at a global value of EUR 450 million. Mr António Costa Silva, about the gratitude to all the people you have mentioned, I must say that I do it every day to those on the ground. By returning to the beginning, to the mover government, this government is moving a lot and is always on the ground and therefore that thanks I make every day and every night those on the ground are working. [[P.S.'s applause.]] However, I cannot fail to thank the honourable Members either. Ladies and gentlemen, all you have done here and I believe that this is the only way we can actually make our country a better country. As far as regional tourism institutions are concerned, as you know, I have also given them great strength, precisely on the ground. I've been on the ground with them working a lot. For the first time in history, we held a meeting, still this month and by chance it was in the Algarve, to discuss the future, what we want, of regional tourism entities together. But we are all working together to ensure that this happens. This does not mean that municipalities and inter-municipal communities do not naturally have their own competences for sub-regional promotion—we are not talking at regional level but, yes, sub-regional— but always, always, in conjunction with their respective regional tourism entity, who has and will always have the competence, until there is a reform, promotion and product structuring. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u84	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the Socialist Party for having scheduled for discussion an issue which today is very important and which, therefore, requires our reflection. Indeed, we have come to see a major intensification of tourism in our country, I would say, that it will not be fiction to say that Portugal is in fashion. But this reality has to be looked at with caution, because this growth of tourism does not only bring advantages, especially when it is focused on large cities such as Lisbon or Porto. It is therefore necessary to ensure sustainable tourism, we must think about people, residents, communities that attribute singularity to big cities in order not to run the risk of « killing the golden egg chicken ». In fact, today we are witnessing a profound change in housing dynamics in the metropolitan areas of the country. The drastic rise in rental values has led to the expulsion of the population of the most central areas of the big cities, such as Lisbon. If we add to this the brutal drop in offer and the exponential increase in values for the acquisition of own house, we have the result: access to housing in large cities is a privilege of few and a virtually inaccessible right to Portuguese families. We therefore have sufficient reason to be concerned about the germination that is being verified. Géntrification that, in fact, has worsened with the strong intensification of tourism and accommodation for tourist purposes which, above all, Lisbon and Porto are living. Tourist activity has to be planned under a sustainable and integrated vision, because the risk of a messy and intense tourist burden, an intensive and unplanned exploitation of a territory can even prove to be destructive. That is, if no action is taken, we will continue to watch the depopulation, the loss of population and the disappearance of many communities that give color and life to the big cities. In all these measures, in addition to a housing policy, which, for example, favours and dynamizes the lease, there is also a need for measures to extend tourism out of the big cities. The interior of the country has potential to promote tourist motives, which are increasingly sought after, such as rural tourism, nature tourism or thermal tourism. The growing demand for tourism that not only goes through the visit to large cities is increasingly evident, which calls on us to look for alternative ways to boost what we have in terms of tourism. And there is no need to invent anything, because we have many potentials to discover and explore. We know how to look at them as true potentialities, as high quality tourist products, and we know how to be aware of the growing environmental and ecological awareness that tends to spread around the world and the importance it represents, in all the variables, for tourists when they decide to visit a country. The rich natural heritage that surrounds our interior deserves to be seen and visited around the world, always in a perspective of sustainable tourism and a friend of the environment and nature, always in a perspective of ecologically balanced tourism capable of not compromising the future of these same natural resources. But the interior offers us a very valuable heritage built and, above all, offers us a unique picture of our culture and the specificities of each region. from Algarve to Trás-os-Montes there is a world of tourist interests, which is necessary to enhance. A world which, in addition to being a tourist product, is still a strong force for a serious fight against regional asymmetries and a regional development factor. With regard to health tourism and thermal tourism, I recall the resolution that The Greens presented in this House in October last year, and that they intend to reborn the thermal activity of the Salgadas Stones. A commitment that Unicer literally abandoned, despite the generous tax benefits and financial incentives it received from the State as a counterpart. In addition, having spent half a year on the adoption of this resolution, the Greens take advantage to announce that they intend to propose the coming to the Parliamentary Committee on Economic Affairs of the President of AICEP (Agence for Investment and Foreign Trade in Portugal ), to give us account of the efforts already made at Unicer, in order to comply with the resolution proposed by the Greens and adopted by this House without any vote against.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u86	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u87	It is recalled that this legislative initiative recommends that the Government develop the necessary measures to ensure that Unicer fully fulfil the commitments made in the Aquanattur project, of Salgadas Stones, within the scope of the PIN ( potential national interest ) projects. The Greens believe that the thermal village of Salgadas Stones can once again play a key role in the dynamization of a region as depressed as is Trás-os-Montes and can again be a reference when we speak in thermal tourism. Thus Unicer fulfils the commitments made with the State, with the Authority and with the populations of Salgadas Stones. [[Applause from The Greens and Members of the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u88	Mr Paulo Neves has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Tourism is a very important economic area for the Social Democratic Party. In the last governments, led by us, it was an area of great bet, and the results are known. It was also the PSD who was the first party to bring the debate in this House on tourism; that is, we PSD are linked to the best policies that the country has attended in this sector. That is why it disappoints us tremendously that an economic area of fundamental importance for Portugal and for Portuguese is brought to this House this time—and for the first time—by the Socialist Party to discuss only three simple recommendations to the Government. The PS calls on the Government to bet on the diversification of the tourist offer to the entire national territory, which bets on scientific tourism and health tourism. Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, what a great disappointment! A party supporting a government in a country where tourism is essential comes to Parliament to present only three proposals and this level. It's little! It's, in fact, very little! First of all, Mr Carlos Pereira, in recent years, especially since we were government, the regional supply has diversified. In addition to Madeira, Algarve and Lisbon, regions par excellence of the destination Portugal, we managed to place on the map the Port, the North, the Alentejo, the central region and the Azores. The Socialist Party wants to finally contribute with proposals and proposes what we in the distant past not only proposed as we created: new destinations of excellence in the country. They already exist and they are successful! Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, what they present here today is very little and nothing ambitious. However, Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic and Mr and Mr. Members, the PSD will not let Parliament go wrong and, taking advantage of this opportunity, we will make recommendations to the government and make clear, decisive and important bets, much more structural than the small suggestions, with a tremendously out-of-date one, which the PS has brought to Parliament. The PSD therefore recommends that the Government create immediate conditions to put an end to the huge waiting lines at Portela airport. We have already said that it is unacceptable for competitive and demanding market tourists, after many hours of flights, to spend more than two hours waiting for passports. It is unacceptable and the situation has been dragging itself for months and it was to be expected that this would happen. Only a few weeks ago and after huge alerts, the government decided to move forward, late, with the competition for more elements of the SEF ( Service for Foreigners and Borders) at Portela airport. A late decision. Furthermore, the PSD has already told the Government to prepare the Lisbon airport for the planned increase of tourists with the opening of the direct line Lisbon and the People's Republic of China and also the charter for Japan. Let's hope the government does the housework this time. Speaking at Lisbon airport, the government should have already established clear responsibilities for those responsible for the total chaos that occurred at the largest airport in the country last day 10. An absolutely unacceptable situation. The PSD, however, has already called Parliament the administration of ANA-Aeroports in Portugal and if necessary other institutions will be called by us to explain why this recent situation that shames the country and that should have also embarrassed the government. An airport in total chaos, unprepared to deal with an emergency situation. We're talking, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the largest and most important airport in the country. Another proposal that the PSD has been insisting on with the government is to bet on religious tourism especially in the Latin American and South Korean markets, to encourage the opening of direct air connections with the main capitals of Latin America, such as Bogotá, the hub of Panama City, Lima in Peru, Mexico City and Buenos Aires. Lisbon must be a strengthened air hub in the links between the American continent, Europe and the African continent. The government has done very little in this regard. Another recommendation to the Government is to attract more foreign investment in this area of tourism, because there are many chains of internationally renowned hotels that are not in Portugal and that should be. The government does not have a clear and obvious policy to capture these international chains from hotels to our country. We also recommend the creation of an international centre of excellence in teaching, promoting the internationalization of hotel and tourism schools, and the transformation of our schools into centres of excellence to capture more foreign students. The number of foreign students in our tourist schools is very, very small. We also recommended to the Government a competitive fiscal policy, through a policy friend of the investor, friend of the entrepreneur and customer in Portugal. Another recommendation we have made to the Government has to qualify for tourism, facilitating upgrad financing for hotel units already in the country and which, over time, require urgent reforms. Betting on market niches that can also be associated with residential tourism, the most obvious are golf and nautical sport. Everything to increase the average stay of tourists in Portugal. We are also available to assist in the betting of cruises in nine destinations in the country, such as Porto Santo, but also in some ports of the Azores archipelago. We suggest a detailed analysis of the whole value chain of tourism to identify context costs that are limiting the competitiveness of the sector. Finally, we recommend raising Portuguese gastronomy, which is a genuine national heritage, to a quality cuisine spread throughout the world, through a network of Portuguese restaurants. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party, you have brought three weak recommendations, we have compensated your lack of ambition with 12 more recommendations, four times more. Thus, Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic and Mr and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we did not wrong this House and we gave the government a good housework. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u90	Mr Paulino Ascenção, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Tourism is a fundamental sector for development and no one is against it, certainly no one of this bench. However, we do not agree with the idea that there is a country "to see" and another country "to live". Cities cannot be transformed into artificial resorts, with the population drenched to the peripheries. The authenticity of the experience the tourist seeks requires people to give life to the neighborhoods and to preserve their traditions. Tourist activity must create wealth and distribute it fairly by all its agents. Good sector indicators have not led to proportional growth in workers' remuneration, as there are still situations of refusal of strike, non-payment of additional work, as well as food and transport subsidies. The activity is affected by seasonality, but the lives of people are not seasonal, the workers do not hibernate and their lives are not suspended in the low season. If companies have to accumulate reserves in the high season to survive all year, workers too. But the central issue is to take tourism all over the territory. The major trends identified by the experts give signs of the bets to be made: health tourism and well-being, associated with the growing senior segment of the population; tourism of nature and sustainable nature. However, this means preserving the landscape, preventing forest fires that destroy important heritage. Burned saws are not attractive for walks. Building and archaeological heritage, such as Côa Park and megalytic monuments, should also be valued. Another trend is the search for experiences of insertion into the experiences of the communities. Tourists want to participate in activities in the places they visit with the local population and have access to the authentic and distinctive character of these experiences, which already happens with the involvement of tourists in the harvests and which can be extended to other regions and other activities. But preserving traditions, uses and customs means keeping the population alive in villages and villages, a population that reproduces and transmits these knowledge to new generations. In addition, we must invest in the fixation of the population, fund the activities that have always given life to the villages, such as agriculture, pasture, forest exploitation by production itself, but also with a broader objective of maintenance, landscape preservation, land cleaning as a form of fire prevention, which is an important asset for tourism, and maintenance of roads and trails, in order to preserve traditions in order to offer unique and authentic experiences to visitors. We can implement a strategy that takes advantage of these trends and responds to the need for balanced occupation of the territory. We have already had, in this House, appreciable initiatives that defended the preservation of the traditional way of manufacture of certain products - I remember - from the outside and from the midwifery - but this can be framed in a global vision, of safeguarding the rural world and its traditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u92	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u93	We must attract tourists out of the big centers, learn from the good examples that work, as is the case of tourism in the Douro Vinhateiro, which takes advantage of river and railway navigation to distribute tourists from the city of Porto. In addition to the promotion already made, new actions can start at the entry points and the main tourist flows poles, advertising the interior territories. I speak, for example, of the rows for the entrance of the great and main monuments. I leave a note for the importance of accessibility, for the recovery of railways, for the issue of tolls, in a logic that gives preference to collective transport. The example which the Secretary of State referred to in the case of rent-a-car with electric cars has its own interest, but does not resolve, for example, the issue of congestion. Finally, I leave a note to the importance of the autonomy of tourism regions, the stability of their functioning, their designation and the promotion campaigns. Innovations in this field are not always advisable. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u94	For an intervention, Mrs Hortense Martins of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : 'The success of tourism in Portugal is cestuddy in Europe' — I have just mentioned a sentence in an article which came out today and which reveals the opinion of the European Travel Commission on the Portuguese case. This is something very, very, very important, because it's not just this entity that says it. Like the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) and the World Tourism Organization ( World Tourism Organisation ), the Portuguese case is given as an example to replicate, and it is not an easy thing, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. Moreover, the European Travel Commission also notes: «We see that Portugal has grown very impressively in recent months in tourism, both in number of arrivals and sleeping, and the return on investment is also very positive. Tourism in Portugal is doing a good job in promoting'. This is exactly an essential point and has to do with the tourism strategy developed by the Government and led by the Secretary of State for Tourism. This is an issue that comes from a financial partnership between the public system and the private tourism industry, and it is not easy, as has been mentioned very well, and it does not even happen in all countries. I must point out that Portugal, contrary to what some voices have already mentioned here, still has the capacity to grow. Portugal has rates of occupation of hotels that are slightly more than 50 %. I also point out that tourism has become increasingly a sector of decisive importance in the Portuguese economy and should be treated as such. It is the largest export sector, also taking into account the importance of employment. It is a sector that needs workers, it is a sector that does not work without good employees, that has to be valued and that also needs to have more qualification, and for this purpose public tourism policies have to be developed. It is noted that tourism has almost compensated for the deficit in the balance of goods alone, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. It is even the main exporter of goods and services and accounts for almost 17 % of the total. It is important to know that this balance which almost compensates for the negative balance of goods already reaches almost 5 % of GDP, as it is good to say. Tourism in Portugal should be treated with the importance that the sector deserves and not as a sector of underdeveloped or developing countries. Portugal is part of a very important ranking of the richest countries in the world, where the first place is attributed to the United States of America, the second place to Spain, the third place to France, the fourth place to the United Kingdom. Of these rankings are also part of countries such as China, Thailand, Italy, Germany and Portugal, in an honorable 26. the place. Our country is therefore among the richest countries in the world.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u96	Madam Member, please allow me a break. to the Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who are holding partial meetings in the plenary, I would like to ask you to create conditions so that the honourable Member who is speaking may be heard. [[Pause.]] You want to continue, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u97	Thank you very much, Mr President. Tourism is an essential sector for the Portuguese economy and for bringing added value, which will have an impact on other sectors. Let us see what effect it has at this time on the real estate sector, which has sunk with the previous policies and which is visible throughout the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u98	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u99	We have seen the effect of strengthening the local and regional economy in the other regions of the country, as mentioned by the Secretary of State for Tourism. The Azores grew, Porto and northern Portugal grew, Alentejo grew, the centre grew, all regions of the country grew. But we have even more growth potential and therefore the government does well to look for new products, new regions and diversify these same products and regions, so that seasonality will be reduced and that we can take advantage of hotel capacity and structures outside the high season — at high time, hotel capacity and structures are all occupied — and so we will not only boost employment, but also the less developed regions. This is what is happening and has to be further increased with public policies that anchor certain products and tourist resources that the country has. I refer, for example, to the Passediços do Paiva and the Museu Carcarleiro, in Castelo Branco, a unique museum that has to be seen as a model. I also remember the effect that the Guggenheim Museum has in Bilbao, which welcomes more than 1 million tourists per year, this at the level of the attraction this pole contains in a region that is outside the great and traditional centers. The strategy developed by the Government in terms of setting up new air routes for China and Japan is also fundamental, as has already been mentioned and reported today. Today, we ask: with these new routes, the country is really able to attract more tourists so that they can be catapulted to other regions of the country and there is no "overload" effect, which at present can be found in certain monuments or at certain points of the city? I note that this situation is not general in certain regions and cities. I will end by valuing the issue of congresses, incentives and the place that we have been able to rise in this important ranking and which once again reveals the diversification that this government strategy contains. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u100	Mr João Ramos, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u101	Mr President, the State Secretary for Tourism and Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Members: The discussion of the three PS draft resolutions on tourism deserves us an initial foreign exchange with regard to the proposals put forward. First of all, by the way projects, excessively simple, emerged and were replaced; secondly, because the PS presents today the concepts of scientific tourism and health, and the Tourism Strategy 2027, published in March of this year, therefore two months ago, does not refer to these concepts. The PS Parliamentary Group is already proposing the amendment of this strategy implemented by the Government at the age of 10 and has not yet passed two months. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u102	In addition, we cannot fail to stress the lack of consideration by these projects in relation to a central problem in the tourism sector: the precariousness of work and the conditions of overexploitation and, in many cases, degrading to which the workers of the sector are subject. The tourism sector is an important sector of the national economy, but it is reducing to classify its success only by analyzing the number of sleeping, income and profits, which have increased, and still well, but which do not return to the workers, and still badly. There is no success in the sector if workers and their rights are not respected. Even worse if this success is achieved on account of over-exploration of workers. In terms of success, the situation of regions such as Lisbon, Porto and Algarve, that is, regions of the continent, does not repeat itself in the other regions. For all this, not properly frame the speech of success is not to respect the thousands of fundamental workers for the functioning of the sector and the true responsible for the wealth created, it is not to respect the thousands of small entrepreneurs who keep, with difficulty, their small units within the country. The CFP intervention in this discussion has already addressed the projects that speak in scientific tourism and health tourism, which, in fact, are not effectively initiatives on tourism. I would now like to make a reference to the project that recommends that the implementation of measures extending tourist demand to the entire national territory be promoted, which, as a proclamation, is something we accompany, until the lack of dispersion through the territory is effectively a problem. On this subject, we have recently been concerned by regional tourism institutions, fundamental institutions for the promotion of territories, with the intention of the Government to transfer competences in the area of promotion of these entities to the inter-municipal communities. There's something incoherent about all this. The CFP has stated that, in the tourism sector, the competitiveness and economic viability of national destinations and enterprises must be ensured without the use of low wages and precarious work; that the development of their potential is inseparable from the rising living conditions and access of the population; that it must combat its marked seasonality, safeguard the natural and cultural heritage, deepen the diversification of the issuer markets and increase their internationalisation; that the affirmation of tourism regions as motor entities of regional development, associated with local power dynamics should be strengthened. The CFP's proposals for tourism do not deviate from the measures to support small and medium-sized enterprises; they do not stop from improving living conditions for the generality of workers in order to exercise their right to leisure; they do not shut down the maintenance in the hands of the State of strategic sectors for the development of the country, such as transport. Workers and micro, small and medium-sized tourism companies can always count on the CFP so that the conditions of success, which today are only possible for some, can effectively reach many more. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u103	Mr Cristovão Norte has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u104	Mr President, Mr. State Secretary for Tourism and Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Members: I think we have missed an essential opportunity to discuss tourism in depth. The Socialist Party's bench focused on, instead of presenting its proposals, taking on an absurd and unfounded thesis of saying that tourism had been born now. Now tourism has not been born today; over the last few years tourism has been claiming itself as a nuclear sector and one of the driving forces of economic recovery. In this respect, let me remind you, and I think it is absolutely necessary in view of the lack of a position of the Socialist Party on this matter — the highly elucidative data that mark absolutely spectacular growth rates, without even in any other sector rising in the Portuguese economy and which also has meaning, that tourism has registered since the beginning of this decade. Otherwise, let us see: more than 40% of tourists; more than 45% of foreign tourists; more than 38% of sleeping tourists; more than 49% of profits, on an ascent whose performance is remarkable, which has been solid and secure, which has strengthened, as has been said, the terms of the trade balance, which has contributed to the country's external balance and which, above all, ensures that we can design a more marketable economy in goods and services, in exports, which is thus more and better prepared to build a healthier model. Therefore, our discussion should not be about whether tourism was born or not by this government's hand, but on what causes have been in the genesis of this growth that has occurred over the past few years, what has been in its origin and how we can perpetuate this growth. This growth has, of course, resulted in a global trend in the development of tourism. On issues of a demographic, social and cultural nature, the travels ceased to be sporadic and became a common event. On the other hand, the democratization of access to travel, making it cheaper and more accessible to all, the construction of basic infrastructures — airports, roads... — and also the installed hotel capacity are vital tools to generate a growing and robust tourist demand. Now, this is the performance, on the one hand, of several governments, not only of the current or previous, but also of governments that have created important infrastructures for the country to bet decisively on tourism for many and many years. On the other hand, with regard to the previous government, it is important to remember the set of public, coherent and structured policies that stand out in stark contrast to the proclamation and the the thesis that the Socialist Party today inaugurated here and that I, in a very brief way, was able to underline. Of course, the organization. The organisation of tourism in Portugal was deeply reformulated: we moved from 11 to 5 regions of tourism, which no longer have external promotion, except in Spain, focused on essential competences, i.e. structuring product, dynamizing their regions, avoiding waste of resources and duplication of competences. Before the reorganization of the promotion, we had 12 brands, 12 campaigns, 12 strategies. Everybody did everything and nothing at the same time! Then we began to have the reorganisation of the promotion and we covered everything in the Portugal brand, a strong brand that we headed for digital marketing. Before 2011, I remember you, Mrs. Members, which 2% of the promotion was for digital marketing and we had 100%. On the simplification of procedures, we liberalized access to tourist animation, we regulated the local accommodation with the data that are known: we passed from 8000 local housing records to more than 30 000. The State has no hotels, there are no travel agencies, it has nothing to do with them, and therefore the privates have had an absolutely neutral role in achieving this national objective, which is essential for dynamizing the Portuguese economy. the State must create conditions; it is up to us to assess whether or not the State creates these conditions. And it is about these conditions that I want to know, because the Socialist Party was unable to say whether or not they were created. I will give you an example. It was just today 1 year ago that was announced the Simplex +. So let's see what the measures on tourism are—and I had a few minutes ago to consult the Simplex + portal on this. Measure 193 — Portal do Turismo +. Forecast : 1. the quarter of 2017. Is it already in operation? Don't! Measure 202 — Investment projects for tourism in Portugal. Forecast : 3. the quarter of 2016. Is it already in operation? Don't! Action 30 — Digital Agenda of the Tourist Entrepreneur. Forecast : 1. the quarter of 2017. Is it already in operation? Don't! Measure 248 — Tax free + simple. Forecast : 4. the quarter of 2016. Is it already in operation? No, at least according to the Portal. As I know, it has been approved, but it is not yet implemented, it is Measure 13, with respect to simple + tourist licenses. Therefore, although several measures are planned — I say, justice — the rate of implementation of the measures is very low. One year ago, today exactly one year ago, we presented 22 measures here. Twenty-two measures that had a cross-sectional view of tourism and aimed at deepening the data we have come to know. You have brought these measures to the fore. And what are you presenting today? Three empty content resolution projects,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u105	... without grounds, criticized by all the banks, projects, these, which I have many doubts that you have the courage to put to the vote, because they do not even have the support and recognition of the government, who abstained from defending them. Therefore, what is at stake today is to know what measures have not been taken to ensure that within 5 or 10 years we are achieving more or better results than what we have today. This is because today's results are not the result of the measures taken yesterday but, rather, of the measures taken last year, two, five years ago, ten years ago. Today, the Socialist Party has shown to everyone that it has no policy for tourism, that it refuses to propose initiatives that strengthen tourism. We hope that the Government will have the capacity to do so, since the Socialist Party's bench is absolutely empty of ideas and, under the cover of these three child resolution projects, has lost the opportunity to demonstrate that it had an idea to ensure the sustainability of tourism in Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u106	Mr João Almeida, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u107	Mr President, Members of the Government, Mrs and Mrs. Members: As tourism is a sector of activity responsible for one quarter of the economic growth we have at the moment, requiring the Socialist Party, which supports the Government, to have a parliamentary agenda and having a fairly broad consensus on policies for this sector, this debate had everything to do well. And, in fact, only the Socialist Party and the Government could ruin — it happens that they have ruined. In fact, the Socialist Party has ruined this debate, because it brings three draft resolutions which, at least, should lead to votes to see what they are worth, because, indeed, we cannot draw a great conclusion from reading them. The government, surprisingly, has chosen to try to explain here why tourism, which grew in the past, which continued to grow, which was good in the past and which continues to be good, after all, is only good since the Socialist Party governs. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u108	It's a speech that we're not going to disagree, because it's absurd. It's absurd! It is absurd to come to say that it is the merit of this government, as it would be absurd for us to say that this government only took advantage of what the previous government did. This, frankly, is a way of doing politics that, I think, nobody else, out there, appreciates whoever they are. But since the three draft resolutions of the Socialist Party were bad, we have prepared three alternative ideas and, as it seems, you will not take your draft resolutions to vote, you will have time to redeploy work from home. The first draft alternative resolution was for the Government to comply with the Simplex, to comply with what it had committed itself and which it was not, in time, fulfilling. It is not clear, therefore, that you are presenting a draft resolution to amend what the government did two months ago and do not present a draft resolution for the Government to do what it should have done almost a year ago. You don't get it! [[CDS-PP applause.]] The second draft alternative resolution was to promote a public policy that has the effect on tourism that the liberalisation of air transport has had on the Azores. On the day when you are able to have a public policy that achieves a transformational effect as has been the liberalisation of air transport in national tourism through the Autonomous Region of the Azores, then in fact you can claim something of what you are trying to claim. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u109	Third draft alternative resolution: for those who advocate an interventionist policy in tourism, you find someone out there, realize that they actually have some active role in the sector. It is not surprising that when the sector seeks nationally and internationally the protagonists of Portuguese public policies that have had any connection with this positive effect, they continue to seek out the protagonists of the previous government. I don't know why! Is that what you're talking about? Does anyone really perceive what this government has done to give priority to tourism? What, from a political point of view, does the relationship with these results really have to do with it? We did not enter this championship, but the gentlemen who enter now thought they had a bit better to present. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u110	For an intervention, Mr Luís Leite Ramos, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u111	Mr President, Mr. State Secretary for Tourism and Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Members: I shall allow - firstly, to register with pleasure the presence of the Secretary of State for Tourism. In fact, we would like to have the Government in other legislative agendas but unfortunately there are two pesos and two measures: when the ruling agenda is proposed by the Socialist Party or by the parties that support this government, the Government comes to Parliament ; when it is the opposition that proposes the legislative agendas, the Government marks its absence, completely disregarding the respect it owes to this Parliament. I would therefore like to thank the Secretary of State for her presence and to say that it is important that the Government, when there are matters such as this, important for the country and this House, mark its presence. We hope that in future power schedules this will happen again and that the Government will demonstrate that respect and consideration that Parliament and the representatives of the people deserve from the Government. I would also like to leave a word to the Socialist Party. It has already been said by all the benches, without exception, that what the Socialist Party has presented here today does not pass from a mere package of very vague ideas, without substance, without content, that the Socialist Party has nothing to propose to the country or to this Parliament in the field of tourism and does not have any more important matters to discuss. It is really overwhelming, Mr. Carlos Pereira, to see that these draft resolutions not only repeat much of what is already in other fundamental documents that the country has as they will, in many cases, recapture ideas that the Social Democratic Party has presented a year ago in this Parliament and that you with total despondency have plummeted. So, of course, it is a feeling that this Socialist Party is the Socialist Party of little ones — little in terms of ideas, vision and, above all, ambition. It is also important to recognize that, as has already been said in the tourism sector, the Government has maintained many of the reforms that the previous government has made. He did not have the unmeasured attack, as happened in other sectors, reverting or seeking to reverse only because they were done by the previous government. Mr Secretary of State, this fact shows a great deal of the success that the sector has had. We are not ashamed or afraid to say that this is a work that has been done more than 10 years ago, that it has continued and that at the right time it has had the necessary reforms. This government, contrary to what the Secretary of State says, is not making reforms, is in the shadow of the reforms of the previous government. It can of course reap the fruits of these reforms for some time, it cannot be expected that the reforms of a few years ago will last forever and cause the conditions necessary for more investment, for more dynamism and, above all, for greater competitiveness in the sector. We challenge the government to go further in many of these reforms, but in other cases we are afraid that the language and speech of the government, for example with regard to regional reform, will create a total confusion and create false expectations with the agents. We have not yet heard the Secretary of State say whether or not the Government is going to municipalize regional entities, whether or not it is going to municipalise tourism promotion. We have not heard the Secretary of State say whether the temptation, which exists within some sectors, to transfer to the coordinating committees the functions that are currently in the regional entities... is that, the Secretary of State, we have knowledge of projects, which circulated within the Government, in order to transfer to the inter-municipal communities competences in the field of tourism and that, at the right time, a profound dispute has been raised by the different regional entities. We were expecting the Secretary of State to clarify this point. We are going from here without information and we are worried that silence means, perhaps, that there is behind this silence, a hidden agenda of the government to move in the reform that the previous government has done and that today is one of the success factors of tourism, as it was last year. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u112	Finally, the Secretary of State for Tourism, it is important to realize that tourism, from an economic point of view, is a fragile sector. Their success and sustainability depend on issues such as security or problem resolution such as what happened last week at Lisbon airport. And on this subject, we have not yet heard a word from the Government showing determination of the facts that led to that chaotic image that the country has given to the whole world about tourism. TAP has already announced that it will not repay passengers who have been harmed. Is the Secretary of State not concerned about this? Are you not concerned that the airline sends due compensation to the airport management entities? What does the Secretary of State have to say about this? What will the government do on this issue? Are you worried or not? Does it affect the country's image or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u113	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u114	It is that if the government does not intervene in this area, if the government shows that when there are problems it cannot solve them, the image that tourism will suffer naturally has damage, and they are very difficult to recover and that may call into question the work of many years. The government has to intervene, the government must act much more than get parrot... [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u115	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u116	... the results that the sector has had over recent years, thanks to the reforms that have been made and to the dynamism that it was possible to give to the sector by entrepreneurs and regional tourism entities. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u117	I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who are standing or standing behind the Bureau, please sit down or leave the Chamber so that we can continue our work in good condition. Mr António Eusébio, from the PS, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since we are talking about tourism and since tourism is also culture and Portugal is in fashion, I begin to greet, because it was a historic day, the Salvador, who was a great artist and who took us all over the world with a great victory in Eurovision. Thank you very much! [[General applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have had a debate in which we have always returned to the discourse of the past to say that during the previous term, much has been done by tourism. Indeed, it was done a lot in some sectors, but let's also remember that at that time in 2011 there were 286 000 employees in 2015, while we now increase 40 000 in low season. That's the difference. Also in the employment sector, there's a difference. You know why? Because, as mentioned here today, there is a strategy. A strategy other than yours, a strategy different from the past. Your strategy is confused with freedom, freedom is confused with lack of guidance and vision is confused with market response. Now, Mr Cristovão Norte, the State does not have hotels, but, unlike the recent past, the current strategy is shared, involves all public and private actors — companies, institutions, regions, complementary sector players for tourism without forgetting the markets and tourism operators — with a view to identifying priorities and options, promoting the integration of sectoral policies that influence the activity of tourism and can ensure a stability of public policies up to 2027 based on five strategic axes, which are: valuing the territory; boosting the economy; boosting knowledge; generating connectivity; and designing, essentially, Portugal in Europe and the world. That's the big difference, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The Socialist Party remains concerned and seeking new measures to diversify supply.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u119	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u120	Finally, Mr President, many measures have been mentioned here today: the Revive programme, the Valuar programme, the All for All programme, the FormAlgarve programme, the 365 programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u121	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u122	Currently, we follow a path, a sustainable path, a strategy, which happily results, that generates trust in entrepreneurs, that generates increased investment, that generates increased profits and that is placing Portugal...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u123	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u124	...as a destiny that can no longer be visited. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u125	To conclude the debate, you have the floor of the Secretary of State for Tourism.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u126	Mr President, I would like to thank all the useful contributions that have been made here today to build this future together, which I think we all want in the same way for Portugal. This only denotes the broad consensus that now exists around the 2027 Tourism Strategy, a 10-year strategy, in which, I think, we all have a review, which only shows that we have a guarantee of stability here in the next 10 years that will also give comfort to all investors, but also trust to workers and those who believe in Portugal. The success of tourism in Portugal is due to everyone: to workers, to businesses, to those who risk, to those who innovate, to those who fight for what they believe. So I cannot but say that we have exemplary people here who are going to fight, who do not give up, who innovate, who reinvent, who are an example for what Portugal is living today, who is this reinvention of our country, people filled with a will to transform Portugal into a better country. [[Congratulations from the PS and Mr José Manuel Pureza.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u127	Mrs. Members, we have thus concluded the joint discussion of draft resolutions Nos 869, 871 and 872 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). Before we move on to the next point, I give the floor to Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, Bill No. 520 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Consecrates the special scheme for access to the invalidity and old-age pension of the workers of the quarry ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission and draft resolutions Nos 876 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — By valuing the teaching of the history of Portuguese emigration ( PS ), which goes down to 8. the Commission, and 877 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The creation of a national migration museum ( PS ), which falls to 12. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u129	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then move on to the voting period. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic picture records 208 meetings, to which they are added to those of the MPs Mariana Mortágua, BE, Amadeu Alberaria, PSD, Palmira Maciel, PS, and Bruno Dias, of the PCP, making 212 Members, so we have the quorum to proceed to the votes. Let us begin by voting No 312 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Despite the death of Nuno Gil Pires ( PSD ). I call on Secretary Duarte Pacheco to proceed with the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: "It was with deep regret that the Assembly of the Republic became aware of the death of Nuno Gil Pires last May 10. Nuno Gil Pires, a man of incomparable human qualities, performed various public positions, notably autorca, as President of the City Council of Chaves, Member of the Assembly of the Republic and Counsellor of Prime Minister Francisco Sá Carneiro. Natural of Torre Dona Chama, Mirandela, Nuno Gil Pires, to whom everyone recognizes the highest personal qualities, who, with an exemplary sense of civic duty, dedicated himself to the public cause, died at the age of 89. It is sad that the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, presents its heartfelt condolences to Nuno Gil Pires' family and friends, paying tribute to his memory and work for democracy. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u131	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute's silence regarding the vote we just voted on. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Let us turn to vote No 307 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Salutation to Salvador and Luísa Sobral, for victory at the Eurovision Festival, in Kiev ( President of RA, PS, PSD and CDS-PP ), which will be read by Ms. Secretary, Mrs. Idália Salvador Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Salvador Sobral was the great winner of the Eurovision Festival this year in Kiev, Ukraine. The music he played, Love for both of his sister's authorship, Luísa Sobral, with Luís Figueiredo's arrangement, was 1. the place, with a record of points for which it contributed not only the vote of national judges but also the ‘televote’ coming from 41 countries. It is the first time that Portugal has won this Festival, which for decades has left the country on the screen of television, as it has been happening again now. Until this edition, the best classification was 6. the place of Lúcia Moniz in 1996. This unique fact in the contemporary history of Portuguese music would always be a cause for joy more than enough. It adds to this the unusual personality and quality of this performer, capable of exciting a global audience that, mostly, did not know or dominate the Portuguese language. The recognition of the interpreter Salvador Sobral and the composer Luísa Sobral was thus also a moment of affirmation of the universality of music and a great victory for the Portuguese language, if we thought that in the last 10 editions there had never been a song that was not sung in English. the merit of the interpreter and the composer joins the professionalism with which the RTP organized the Portuguese participation in Kiev. For the year, the Festival will be held in Portugal. As an organizing country, we will certainly live up to our tradition of welcoming and organizing these great events. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, thus honours Salvador Sobral, and his sister Louisa Sobral, as well as the RTP, to whom we wish the greatest successes for the next year's edition of the Eurovision Festival. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u133	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and acclamation, standing.]] We turn to vote No 308 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Greetings to International and National Day against Homophobia and Transphobia ( PS, BE and PSD ). I ask the Secretary, Mr Moisés Ferreira, to proceed with your reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « International Day against Homophobia and Transphobia is celebrated worldwide and officially recognized in several States, such as Portugal and the European Union itself, pointing out the long course of combating homophobic and transphobic discrimination and the fight and recognition of rights before the law, recalling the day in 1990 when WHO removed homosexuality from its classification of diseases by overthrowing a violent barrier of homophobic prejudice. On 17 May it represents a mission of all states of law and therefore also of Portugal, which expressly enshrines in Article 13. that of the Constitution, the prohibition of discrimination based on sexual orientation. We are still witnessing a particular violence perpetrated against lesbian, gay, bisexual and transsexual people (LGBT), particularly through the practice of hate crimes, and hate speech, whose denunciation encounters multiple obstacles. The gross violation of the human rights of LGBT people is a reality that deserves our continued vigilance and that happens at this time, particularly in Chechnya and Russia. The way ahead is to fight discrimination, that is, that more and more countries are a good example. Portugal has stated itself in the matter of equality in the law, taking significant steps in all offices of relevance in the matter, such as family members. Legal achievements, in addition to their intrinsic value, have contributed to the social interiorization of the value of the equal dignity of all and of all. It is, however, necessary to bear in mind that each person can close multiple discriminations, which cross identity issues with issues relating to the starting socio-economic profile. It is essential that, having this data as an assumption, ensure effective access by people to all dimensions of the social state. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic welcomes the commemoration of the International and National Day against Homophobia and Transphobia and the determination of all people and movements of civil society who, in Portugal and on a global scale, seek to ensure the eradication of discrimination in law and in concrete life. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u135	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 309 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Greetings by National and International Day against Homophobia and Transphobia ( PAN and PSD Members Margarida Mano and Rubina Berardo ), which will be read by Mr. Secretary, Mr. Mois Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The National and International Day Against Homophobia and Transphobia was celebrated this week. Celebrating ‘May 17’ remains essential, not only to recall the date on which the World Health Organization finally removed homosexuality from its international classification of diseases, but also to reflect on the violence and prejudice to which lesbian, gay, bisexual and trans people continue to be subject all over the world. In Portugal, many have been the legislative advances towards guaranteeing the rights of LGBT people. The year 2016 was, in fact, historical in terms of the elimination of discrimination based on the law itself, either by the end of discrimination in access to adoption and co-ordination by couples composed of persons of the same sex, either by the extension of the techniques of drug procreation assisted to all women, regardless of their marital status or sexual orientation. Such advances are reflected in the very appreciation that several international entities have carried out in relation to the performance of our country in this area: ILGA Europe has assigned to us this year a 6. the place in the ranking of its Rainbow Map, already after ILGA World has placed Portugal among the countries that most protect lesbian, gay and bisexual people. But let us not fall into the comfort of international rankings. There are still many struggles to be waged in the area of human rights and, specifically, in the area of LGBT rights. It is urgent to ensure the self-determination of trans people in the recognition of their identities. It is urgent to fight hatred and ensure that LGBT people have access worthy of goods and services, without discrimination, without prejudice and always on equality. There is a need to continue work that is always below the requirements for professional training, awareness-raising of populations, the establishment of national and local public policies and practices that guarantee inclusion and non-discrimination. It is urgent for schools to reflect on the harmful impacts of homophobia and transphobia. It is necessary to know how to say the words lesbian, gay, trans and bisexual with conviction in equality and without a resistance to prejudice. Meeting in plenary, the Assembly of the Republic welcomes the celebration of this National and International Day Against Homophobia, Transphobia and Biphobia, praising the legislative advances and the essential work of civil society and associations in the ongoing struggle for the rights of LGBT people. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u137	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the PAN and the abstention of the Member of the CDS-PP Antonio Carlos Monteiro, having been acclaimed by BE and, standing by the Members of PSD Margarida Balsairo Lopes, Paula Teixeira da Cruz and Teresa Leal Coelho and the Member of PS Paulo Trigo Pereira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u138	Mr President, I beg your pardon, will you allow me to speak?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u139	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u140	Mr President, it is only to announce that on behalf of the CDS-PP we will present a statement of vote on the vote that we have just held.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u141	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to vote No 310/ XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Congratulations on the award to the Leiria Museum of the Silletto Prize of the European Forum of Museums ( PS and PSD ). I ask the Secretary, Mrs Idália Salvador Serrão, to proceed to your reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u142	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the content of the vote is as follows: « The annual ceremony of European Museums Forum awards, of which 40. the edition took place in Zagreb, Croatia, on May 6th, distinguished the Leiria Museum with the Silletto Prize, one of the most important awards of that ceremony. The Silletto Prize is awarded to museums that have demonstrated excellence in the community involvement, planning and development of the museum space, and/or that have ensured relevant support through work with volunteers, in order to promote the public quality of the museum. Founded about 100 years ago, under the name of Regional Museum of Artworks, Archaeology and Numismatics of Leiria, the Leiria Museum is installed at the Convento de Santo Augustinho, contemplating in that space a long-lasting exhibition for the general reading of the history of the territory and an area dedicated to temporary exhibitions. The Assembly of the Republic, in this way, congratulates the City Hall of Leiria, as the managing entity of the Leiria Museum and all its collaborators and officials, pointing out the indelible contribution of its work to the prestige and dignity of the Portuguese museum role at the national and international level. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u143	Let's vote, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 311/ XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Congratulations on the visit to Portugal of His Holiness Pope Francis ( PSD, PS and CDS-PP ), which will be read by Mr. Secretary, Mr. Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On the past 12th and 13th of May, His Holiness, Pope Francis, visited Portugal. Although this visit was assumed as a pilgrim at the Shrine of Fatima, Pope Francis was received with honours as Head of State of the Vatican by the authorities of the Portuguese State, besides having been fully welcomed in the heart of the overwhelming majority of the Portuguese people. Few personalities worldwide will have found such a great closeness and identification with the deepest desires of the peoples of all continents, ethnicities, cultures and even religions like Pope Francis. Overcoming his role as leader of the Holy See, Pope Francis has become a shelter of hope for those who believe and fight for a better, fairer, freer and peaceful world. It was clear that the Portuguese understood and embraced Pope Francis as a present symbol of the best in all of us. They did it in great number and offering their affection and devotion in the same way as Pope Francis teaches us to act daily: without asking for anything in return. But this papal visit was not safe, on the contrary. The world is increasingly a dangerous place and its targets, so often, are the multitudes of innocents and those men and women to whom they can entrust their breath, as it is, unquestionably, Pope Francis. Therefore, the safety risks were obvious and serious. Today, we can all recognize the competent and efficient performance of the various security forces of the Portuguese State, despite the difficulties that have been known in the meantime, either as regards the deterrence of the dangers to the security of all, or as regards the assistance and protection of the many thousands of people who wanted to be with Pope Francis. in this sense, the Assembly of the Republic expresses a vote of congratulation for the peaceful, participated and enthusiastic way of visiting His Holiness, Pope Francis, as well as its satisfaction for the inexhaustible performance of Portuguese security forces before, during and after the presence of Pope Francis in Portugal. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u145	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following vote No 313 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Greetings to the performance of the security forces, Armed Forces, local authorities and entities involved in ensuring the security of public events ( PS and PSD ). I ask the Secretary, Mrs Idália Salvador Serrão, to proceed with the reading of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The period between 12 and 14 May of this year recorded the holding in Portugal of numerous events in public spaces, at different points in the country, with the presence and displacement of many thousands of people and very significant logistical challenges, involving the articulation of services of central administration, local authorities and private entities and the mobilization of an extraordinary number of effectives. in this context, already complex, added the need to implement a demanding security device for monitoring the presence of Pope Francis in Portugal, implying, among other measures, the temporary replacement of border control, in accordance with the Schengen Agreements. The planning, preparation, execution and subsequent demobilization of all security devices was addressed by the security forces, Armed Forces and other entities involved with high professionalism, and in particular the dedication and resilience of all people involved and who ensured the course of events within all normality, without any incidents, ensuring the comfort of all those who, Portuguese or visitors from other countries, participated in them. The degree of success was, in fact, already — and well — the object of positive assessment and praise by numerous national and foreign observers. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, welcomes the security forces, the Armed Forces, the local authorities and other entities that collaborated in the numerous operations carried out at the end of the week from 12 to 14 May for professional activity, dedicated and exemplary in the exercise of their functions and for ensuring the safety of people in the various events in public space. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u147	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now turn to vote No 314 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Rejection of the extension of the operation of the Almaraz nuclear power plant ( The Greens ), which will be read by the Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The Almaraz nuclear power plant should have been closed in 2010. However, the Spanish Government authorised its extension until 2020, which means its operation under increasingly obsolete conditions, thus representing a greater risk and threat to populations, to the territory, to ecosystems, in particular the river Tejo. Meanwhile the Spanish Government has authorized the construction of an individualized temporary landfill ( ATI ) to condition nuclear waste resulting from the operation of this plant. Despite the obvious cross-border effects, given the proximity to the Portuguese border, Portugal was neither taken nor found in relation to this matter. For this reason, and pressured by public opinion, the Portuguese Government has opened a complaint with the European Commission, in order to demand the proper assessment of the cross-border impacts of the ATI project. Portugal gave up this complaint for having concluded an agreement with Spain, with a view to the technical reassessment of the project, in particular its cross-border impacts, as well as opening a public consultation in Portugal. The technical report, coordinated by the Portuguese Environment Agency, was produced but demonstrates the existence of gaps and contradictions, because at the same time it concludes that the ATI is safe and adequate, it states that there are a number of essential issues that have not been studied and in depth, such as permeability tests, made in small numbers and in uncontinuous manner, or the poor characterization of the permeability of soils and underground aquifers. In addition, the public summary of the study clearly indicates that the Nuclear Security Council identified gaps that may be relevant in the consideration of potential impacts, including on Portuguese territory. Therefore, Portuguese cannot rest on these findings. In addition, the ATI may have implications for extending the operation of the Almaraz nuclear power plant. These facts should lead the Portuguese Government to take a perennial position in order to ensure that the Almaraz nuclear power plant is closed in accordance with resolution No 76 / 2017 of the Assembly of the Republic. Thus, in constitutional and regulatory terms, the Assembly of the Republic meeting in plenary: 1 - Expresses its repudiation for the possible extension of the operation of the Almaraz nuclear power plant beyond 2020 ; 2 - Calls for this position to be taken fully by the Portuguese Government, at the next Iberian summit, to be held on 29 and 30 May in Vila Real. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u149	Let us then vote on the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following vote No 315/ XIII ( 2 ) shall be taken: ( a ) — Condemning for the repression of activists by democracy in Angola ( BE ), which will be read by the Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On April 17, Angolan police violently suppressed a demonstration in Cacuaco, city on the outskirts of Luanda, leading to the arrest of seven people who demanded employment and better living conditions as well as the holding of free and transparent elections in Angola. António Mabiala, Nzenza Mabiala (‘Lusto’ ), Paulo Mabiala ( ‘DMX’ ), Adam Bunga ( ‘Mc Life’ ), Valdemar Aguinaldo (‘ 27 May’ ), Mariano André and David Saley were tried in summary proceedings for alleged contempt of authorities and convicted by the municipal court of Cakuaco, on 19 April, at 45 days in prison and fine of 75,000 Kwanzas that these young people and their families have no right to pay. The young people were sent to the prisons of Viana, Kakila and Kalomboloko, where there is no water, food and medical care. The families of young people still report difficulties in visiting and assisting prisoners of the demonstration on April 17. This is not the first violent demonstration suppressed by the Angolan authorities this year. Even last February 24, the security forces suppressed a demonstration of young activists in Luanda, including Hitler Samussuko and Luaty Beirut, two activists persecuted in the process ‘ 15 + 2’. Several were wounded by the police dogs released against them. At that time the protesters denounced the lack of transparency and irregularities in the electoral process for the general elections scheduled for 23 August 2017. There can be no free and fair elections without freedom of expression and assembly, basic conditions for the exercise of democracy. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, condemns systematic persecution of civic activists in Angola, repression and violence over demonstrations and disrespect for the principles of freedom and democracy. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u151	We shall then vote on vote No 315/ XIII ( 2. ( a). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PSD, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, votes in favour of BE, PAN and the members of the PS André Pinotes Batista, Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Carla Sousa, Diogo Leone, Fernando Jesus, Isabel Alves Moreira, Isabel Santos, João Soares, Paulo Trigo Pereira, Pedro do Carmo, Rosa Maria Albernaz and Wanda Guimarães and the members of the CDS-PP Ana Rita Bessa and João Piinho de Almeida.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u152	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u153	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u154	Mr President, to inform the Bureau that we shall proceed with the delivery of a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u155	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 857 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) : — Movement of the President of the Republic to Saint Petersburg ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 858 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) : — Movement of the President of the Republic to the United Mexican States ( President of the RA ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[In the meantime, Vice-President Jorge Lacão resuscitated the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u156	We shall vote on draft resolution No 589 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Base of the Lajes ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We moved on to draft resolution No 866 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure the safeguarding of the inhabitants of the Azores within the framework of the use of the Lajes Base by the United States of America ( BE ). The PS Parliamentary Group requested the first vote on point 1 after points 2 and 3 and finally point 4. Let us then vote on point 1. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] Let us now vote on points 2 and 3. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the PSD were adopted.]] Finally, we shall vote on point 4. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, against the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PS and PS.]] We moved on to draft resolution No 868 / XIIII ( 2. ( a ) — On the future of the Lajes Base ( PS ). The Left Block requested the breakdown of points 1 and 3 and 2. We therefore vote for points 1 and 3. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the PSD were adopted.]] Let us now vote on point 2. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the BE and the abstention from the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u157	Mr. President, will you excuse me?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u158	Mrs. Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u159	Mr President, it is in order to transmit to the Bureau that the PS Members elected by the electoral circle of the Autonomous Region of the Azores will present a declaration of vote on draft resolutions Nos 866 / XIII ( 2 ). a ), of the Left Block, and 589 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ), of the Social Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u160	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u161	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u162	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u163	Mr President, it is to indicate that, on behalf of my bench, I will deliver a statement of vote on the last three draft resolutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u164	It's registered, too. Mrs. Members, there are three requests to apply to the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, without a vote and for a period of 90 days, one submitted by BE, concerning the projects of lein. 426 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Organization of the electoral process abroad ( amendment to Decree-Law No 95 - C / 76 of 30 January ) ( BE ), and 427 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Election review of Portuguese citizens living abroad ( BE ), another submitted by the PSD on the projects of lein. 516 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Uniformizes the exercise of the right to vote of voters living abroad by the twenty-first amendment to Decree-Law No 319 -A / 76 of 3 May ( Regulation on the election of the President of the Republic ), the sixth amendment to Law No 14 / 79 of 16 May ( Election Law for the Assembly of the Republic ), the sixth amendment to Law No 14 / 87 of 29 April ( Election Law for the European Parliament ), and the repeal of Decree-Law No 95 - C / 76 of 30 January ( Organization of the electoral process abroad ) ( PSD ), and 517 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — It makes the electoral census of Portuguese citizens living abroad informal and automatic, making the fifth amendment to Law No. 13 / 99 of 22 March establishing the new legal regime of the electoral census ( PSD ), and a third submitted by the PS on the proposals of lein. 77 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter the Election Act for the Assembly of the Republic and the electoral law of the President of the Republic and 78 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Alter the legal regime of the electoral census. We shall proceed to the vote together on these three requests. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We shall now vote in general on Bill No. 478 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Determines refusal of entry and residence into national territory to all foreigners who are convicted of the practice of terrorism under their law ( fourth amendment to Law No 23 / 2007 of 4 July 2007 — Approves the legal regime of entry, stay, exit and removal of aliens from national territory ) ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] The general vote of Bill No. 479 / XIII ( 2 ) was followed. ( a ) — Determines the loss of Portuguese nationality by anyone who is also a national of another State, in case of conviction for the practice of the crime of terrorism ( eighth amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October - Nationality Act ) ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, with votes against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 480 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Access to traffic, location or other related communications data by officials and agents of the information services of the Portuguese Republic ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstention from the NAP.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We shall then vote on draft resolution No 778 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government approve a security plan for each of the Portuguese international airports to ensure the sharing of information between their administrations and security forces and services ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 779 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen and expand all elements of the security forces performing functions of proximity police, specific training in the detection, prevention and combating of terrorism ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 852 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop strategies and action plans under the National Counter-Terrorism Strategy and adopts a strategic plan for the safety of airport infrastructure ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] The general vote on Bill No 79 / XIII ( 2 ) follows. ( a ) — Approves the special arrangements for access to basic data and electronic communications traffic data by SIRP. [[When put to the vote, the PS, CDS-PP and PAN and votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens were adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We shall generally vote for Bill No 77 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) — Creates the status of the professional dancer of the National Dance Company and the dance school of the National Dance Company ( PCP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from PS, PS and CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 10. the Commission. The general vote on Bill No. 324 / XIII ( 2 ) follows. ( a ) — Social security scheme, occupational reintegration and occupational accident insurance for dancers of the National Dance Company ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from PS, PS and CDS-PP.]] The bill also falls to 10. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote of Bill No. 518 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — establishes the specific conditions for the provision of work, social protection and professional conversion of the dancer of the National Dance Company ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS, BE and the CFP.]] The bill goes down to 10. the Commission. We shall also generally vote on Bill No 519 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — establishes the scheme for the repair of damage caused by occupational dancers' accidents ( The Greens ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 10. the Commission. The vote was followed by draft resolution No 547 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government reintroduce teachers at the corresponding level of teaching career ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 870 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Repositioning in the career of teachers who entered the frameworks — regulation of the status of teaching career ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] With regard to draft resolution No 873/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — proposes measures to enhance teachers and educators and improve their working conditions ( CFP ), the PS requested the autonomous vote of the four points. So we started by voting on point 1. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote on point 2 shall follow. [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 3. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the NAP Greens and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Finally, we shall vote on point 4 of draft resolution No 873/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and PS Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u165	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u166	Ask for the floor to what effect, Mrs. Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u167	Mr President, it is to be announced that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on draft resolutions Nos 547, 870 and 873 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u168	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, with regard to draft resolution No 859 / XIII — Consecrates on 8 July as the National Day of Mutualism ( PS ), a request was submitted by the PS requesting the discharge to the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without a vote and for a period of 60 days. Let's vote for him. [[Put to the vote, unanimously.]] The general vote of Bill No 303 / XIII ( 2 ) is hereby followed. ( a ) — Reinforces rights and income and ensures the right to collective bargaining in the business public sector by repealing the burdensome rules of Decree-Law No 133 / 2013 of 3 October ( PCP ) ( the initial text was replaced at the author's request ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 865 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends an amendment to the legal regime of the business public sector which respects the right to collective bargaining and a new orientation for the management of the business public sector ( BE) ( the initial text was replaced at the request of the author ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on an application submitted by the PS, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Economic Affairs, Innovation and Public Works, without voting, for a period of 60 days, of draft resolutions Nos 869 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement measures extending tourist demand throughout the national territory ( PS ), 871 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of measures promoting scientific tourism ( PS ) ( the initial text was replaced at the author's request ) and 872 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of measures promoting health tourism ( PS ) ( the initial text was replaced at the author's request ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 552 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create the conditions for ensuring the coexistence between safeguarding natural values in ZPE Mourão / Moura / Barrancos and Moura / Barrancos, Natura 2000 Network, and human activity, particularly agricultural activity ( CFP ). We have been asked to vote on the points as a whole, so we will vote on each point per se. So we started by voting on point 1. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on point 2. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS and the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 3 of that motion for a resolution. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]] We shall vote on point 4 of the same motion for a resolution. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We turn to the vote on point 5 of the same motion for a resolution. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on point 6, the last of draft resolution No 552 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS and the CDS-PP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 708 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government restore the system of support for the maintenance of indigenous breeds at risk, once again allowing applications and increases in effective measures 7.8.1 of PDR 2020 ( BE). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and The Greens, votes against the PS and the NAP.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 675 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends the strengthening of the means of operation of the National Centre for Water and Water Archaeology ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 820 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure full access to the right of participation of medicinal products ( BE ) for reformers of the laniphy industry. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens, the PAN and 2 PS (Euric Brilliant Days and Hortense Martins) and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u169	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u170	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u171	Mr President, it is to inform the House that Mr. Eurico Brillante Dias and I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u172	Thank you very much, Mrs. Deputies. We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 484 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government pursue the policy of former Executives in order to manage with responsibility and investment the resources of the National Health Service ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 486 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government pursue the policy of former Executives to reduce the use of doctors in the provision of services under the National Health Service ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We are now voting on draft resolution No 368/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Saving money to private investors in the National Health Service ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 541 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Greater autonomy for the conclusion of contracts by the National Health Service ( BE ) entities. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 834 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the recruitment of health professionals and the integration of health professionals employed under contingency plans within the staff of health institutions ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 812 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government forward annually to Parliament the evaluation of the implementation of national plans coordinated by the area of equality ( PSD ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 816 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Defends the completion of the construction of the Diogo Lopes Basic School in Sequeira, Alandroal ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 854 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to enable the construction of the gymnastic pavilion of the Diogo Lopes Sequeira Basic School, in the Alandroal ( PSD ). [[The vote was taken with votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions from PS, BE, the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u173	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u174	Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u175	Mr President, it is to inform that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on the last two draft resolutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u176	All right, Mr. Deputies. We move on to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Health Committee on Bill No 42 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Change the use of assisted medicinal product breeding techniques. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote, in a global final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works on draft law No 319 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amend the Road Code, considering as a serious counter-ordination the stop and parking place reserved for vehicles of persons with disabilities ( amendment to the Road Code, approved by Decree-Law No 114 / 94 of 3 May ) ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the comprehensive final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works on draft law No 320 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — establishes the obligation for public entities with user parking facilities to ensure free parking for persons with disabilities ( second amendment to Decree-Law No 307 / 2003 of 10 December 2003 ) ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall generally vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on draft law No 105 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — It deepens the legal regime of the special action for the recognition of the existence of a contract of work established by Law No 63 / 2013 of 27 August and extends the procedural mechanisms for combating « false green receipts » and all forms of undeclared work, including false stages and false voluntary ( BE) ( the author withdrew his initiative in favour of the replacement text ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, is there no opposition to the voting together, in the speciality and overall end, of this same text? [[Pause.]] If there is no opposition, then we shall proceed to the vote on that replacement text presented by the Committee on Labour and Social Security. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] I shall now give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco to read an opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which will be voted upon after its reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in accordance with the request from the 8th Section of the Lisbon Labour Judgment, District of Lisbon, Case No 15423 / 16.5T8LSB, the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Rui Riso ( PS ) to intervene within the framework of the reference car.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u178	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] At the end of the vote, Mrs Angela Guerra will make an oral statement on the proposal for a law No 42/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Change the use of assisted medicinal product breeding techniques. You have the floor for two minutes, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD Parliamentary Group voted against Bill No 42 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ), which extended the scope of the beneficiaries of assisted medical procreation techniques for two reasons. First of all, because the Government has chosen to withdraw parliamentary control from the regulation of Law No 17 / 2016, preventing Members from being able to request parliamentary assessment of matters that clearly involve fundamental rights and guarantees of citizens. This is what the Executive did when choosing to approve a regulatory act of an administrative nature — Regulation Decree No 6 / 2016 — and not a decree-law, as initially it was done publicly. Nevertheless, the PSD abstained in the vote, generally because it hoped to see the whole matter dealt with in the Commission. Secondly, because the Socialist Party decided to make proposals, on how to eliminate genetic material, on the very day when the bill was voted on in the Health Committee in the specialty, which, however, the PSD again accepted. But the PS then refused, with its extreme-left allies, that these new proposals would be appreciated by the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences. in this context, the PSD cannot be revised in the approved law, insofar as it is not acceptable for this majority to want, once again, to impose the « roll law », preventing not only Parliament but also the independent authorities of the State from fulfilling its mission. The National Ethics Council is not a decorative organ! It also has the task of deciding on the ethical aspects raised by the legislative proposals presented in Parliament. E, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, researching this participation is not a good service for democracy. the PC and the Left Block no longer expect great democratic sensitivity.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u180	Do PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u181	It's PC!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u182	So, you're PS!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u183	But seeing this new PS now is more than regrettable, a very worrying sign of these new times of political sectarianism, in which the social control of the country, by this new left-wing front, is becoming increasingly evident.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u184	You've wasted your time, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u185	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. The PSD will never deal with this way of treating Parliament and democracy! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-19.u186	It is extraordinary to have witnessed the availability, patience and attention with which young people in the galleries have attended our long voting process. We deserve a greeting. [[General applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work. The next plenary meeting will take place on 23 Tuesday at 3 p.m., with the debate on the agenda as the only item on the agenda with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure. I wish everyone a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 27 minutes.]]
