ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. Mrs. Members, let us begin today's agenda with the general assessment of Bill No 62 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — establishes the framework for the transfer of competences to local authorities and to intermunicipal entities, implementing the principles of subsidiarity, administrative decentralization and local power autonomy, and of the projects of lein. 383 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — decentralization of competences for municipalities and intermunicipal entities and in the fregeges in education, health, social action, territorial management, forest management, coastal management, veterinary medicine, animal health and food security ( PSD ), 442 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Framework Law laying down the conditions and requirements for the transfer of responsibilities and competences to local authorities ( CFP ), 449 / XIII ( 2 ). a ) — decentralization of competences for municipalities and intermunicipal entities in the field of education, health, social action, civil protection, beaches, forest management, animal health and food security, heritage and housing ( CDS-PP ), together with draft resolutions 628 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake the reorganization and provision of service services of the Public Administration ( PSD ), 629 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government continue the process of achieving decentralization in the field of health, education and culture through the conclusion of inter-administrative contracts ( PSD ), 630 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish shared service centres and value added at the level of intermunicipal entities ( PSD ), 772 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Decentralisation of competences for local authorities ( BE ), and 725 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government pursue the reformulation of the system of transfer of competences to local authorities and to inter-municipal entities ( NAPs ). For an intervention, Mr. Under-Secretary-General Eduardo Cabrita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate that we are going to have this afternoon on the proposal by the Government of the Framework Law on Decentralisation and a wide range of initiatives from the various parliamentary banks is a high moment of what is the constitutional values of a state's affirmation based on the principles of subsidiarity, the autonomy of local power and the democratic decentralization of the Public Administration. It is exactly the year in which 40 years are held on the first democratic elections for local authorities that this debate is the highest way to allow Parliament, with the commitment of the Government, with the commitment of all the banks represented by the people here, to assume our contract of trust with the unique role that local power has, over the past 40 years, played in the deepening of participatory democracy, so that, first of all, the fundamental elements of quality of life of the Portuguese come to all municipalities and to all the Freguess of the country and, in a second phase, to affirm the factors of economic, social and cultural development and, in more recent times, to take a central role in promoting local economic potential, investment and job creation. The autonomy of local democratic power is one of the most successful facets of Portuguese democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is mainly due to almost half a million Portuguese who over 40 years have served their communities on the basis of the democratic confidence of those close to them, who know them and evaluate them with an intensity and scrutiny that only the proximity allows. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a real reform of the state. On the basis of 40 years of experience, we are here affirming what is a plan of consolidation in a different way to exercise power with greater quality of service to populations, with greater proximity, with greater transparency. That is why, when we speak of a framework law of decentralization, we are, above all, fulfilling the Constitution, which in its Article 6. the, characterizes Portugal as a unitary State, but a unitary State based on respect for local autonomy, on the affirmation of the principle of subsidiarity and on the principle of democratic decentralization of the Public Administration. These are the principles that lead us to present here a proposal that arises at the end of an intensive year of work within the government, involving all areas of governance. But also, a year of intense work with the representative associations of the municipalities, both of the parish that allowed to create the contract of trust that led to the adoption, unanimously, of a position favourable to the realization of this reform either by the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ( ANMP ), or by the National Association of Freguesias ( ANAFRE ). This reform is based on clear principles, universality of access to public services, equal opportunities, equity in access to public goods, guarantee the public nature of the social functions of the State, which we believe to be better carried out at local level. This is neither a strategy nor a deresponsibility of the State nor a privatization of the State's social functions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why, with regard to this initiative, I would like to welcome all the political forces who have agreed to accompany us in this debate with their own initiatives, especially those that have done so in the form of a legislative initiative, telling the CFP that it has a diploma that establishes a set of structural principles, of which we share to a large extent, and we are available to deepen its debate. With regard to the PSD or the CDS, which present initiatives that accompany the key areas of decentralization indicated by the Government, I would also like to tell them that we will certainly have the full willingness to discuss which way to achieve a clear strategy of decentralization. Local authorities deserve this trust agreement, even by the way in which, in the past few years, they have contributed to the health of public accounts, always with positive budgetary balances. In 2016, a year marked by the best budget result of Portuguese public accounts in more than four decades, the municipalities contributed to this result with a positive budget balance of almost 700 million euros. They reduced debt overall by around EUR 800 million, reduced payment deadlines and reduced the number of municipalities in excess of indebtedness. Therefore, this proposal implements the principle of subsidiarity by identifying a set of competences which, from here on, should be the subject of deepening, either in supplementary diplomas with a structural character, such as the Law on Local Finance, in review, which will structure the own resources for the exercise of these powers, in a framework of strengthening local financial autonomy, or in a revision of the law on the organisation of municipal services, strengthening what has already been enshrined in the State budget, strengthening autonomy in the organisation and structure of the services of the various local authorities. This dialogue with ANMP and ANAFRE will also be continued around the sectoral diplomas that the Government undertakes to engage in debate with the authorship associations during the discussion phase in the speciality of the legislative initiative we are discussing today. This proposal for a framework law is not the end of a process, it is, on the contrary, a turn of page that opens up a path to intense work. An intense work to deepen local autonomy and the autonomy of schools in the area of education, which we still discussed throughout the day with representatives of both local authorities and the representative associations of school directors, teachers, education officers. This work opens the way for an increased intervention by health authorities, mainly in the area of primary health care; it places municipalities at the centre of local strategies to combat poverty and social exclusion, in conjunction with local social networks and with private institutions of social solidarity, which have a very relevant role at local level; it gives the authorities an added role in the management of the territory, whether these are coastal areas, beaches or the definition of rules in the management of the urban area, in the parking area or the regulation of national road management; it gives the authorities a fundamental role in the management of the returned public heritage, without use, abandoned, which we find in all municipalities and which, certainly, with local intervention can be valued and placed at the service of the populations with new public functions. This law is the condition for the immediate initiation of this second phase of the work, even more intense, in which it is necessary to involve all, of autarchs, representatives of all sectors involved, with a fundamental participation of all the benches represented in the Assembly of the Republic. We cannot say here that it is necessary to postpone further, that it is necessary to consider the preparation for the exercise of this power framework. at the end of 40 years, the decentralization time is now, it is today. And that is why, with an appropriate phase-up, with gradual participation of all, with a commitment to evaluate policies, with the participation of the autarchs, with the intervention of all sectors relevant to their development, with the evaluation by the Assembly of the Republic, through the competent parliamentary committee, through the ways in which they are more appropriate to follow up this process, what we are doing today is to give voice to the desires of a more decentralized state, a deeper local democracy for better quality of public governance, for greater transparency in decision-making, but, above all, to better serve the citizens and to ensure a better Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the times that are distributed can be guided by the honourable Members. Members in accordance with what they consider appropriate as long as they are able to have the overall time allocated. The same applies, of course, to the government. To ask Mr Minister questions, five are registered. Ladies and gentlemen. In the meantime, the Bureau was informed that Mr Minister will answer the first block of three questions and then the last two questions. That being the case, Mr Soares has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u4	Mr President, Deputy Minister, the first question we would like to ask is what we believe to be a contradiction. We are absolutely advocates of the decentralization process and we believe that in this essential aim of bringing citizens closer to the decision-making and monitoring capacity of the various bodies of the State, it would have been important for the government to have followed up on the possibility of reversing the aggregation of frequencies. The argument that the Government used to not do so was that we would be very close to the elections and that much work would be needed up to that point. Well, but we are here today dealing precisely with a structural change in the way authorities and their powers operate on the side of elections and with a lot of work ahead. Mr Minister, it was very important that there had indeed been the possibility of giving voice to the parish and that the churches which did not feel comfortable with the aggregation process could have decided a new reformulation of their territorial limits, which would have been very important and thus given a fundamental sign for the deepening of democracy, and that was not done. The Government must explain why it has not done so effectively. This country is clearly lagging behind in respect of compliance with the Constitution with the issues of decentralization. In order to comply with the Constitution at this level it must be said that the process of decentralisation must have as its object and as intended the local authorities, which, in constitutional terms, are the Fregueses, are the municipalities and are also the administrative regions. The fact is that we do not see the word 'decentralisation' in any government diploma once again for the administrative regions. It is not seen as a single objective, as a horizon the possibility of creating administrative regions. on the contrary: the Government has been involved in a complex situation of creating a sort of atypical, hybrid entities, which were the CCDRs, which, although they are decentralised bodies of the State, would be elected by the authorities. In fact, those committees were neither one thing nor another, and they did not comply with the Constitution's plan. For us, this is a fundamental issue. Decentralisation is to deepen democracy, to decentralize it is to bring citizens closer together, to give more opportunity to participate in the decision-making process and in the monitoring process. We have a fundamental disagreement with the government on this matter and we want to mention it with all the frontality: we do not believe that decentralization can have as object entities that do not have direct democratic legitimacy. Decentralisation makes no sense to non-elected inter-municipal entities, who do not have the direct scrutiny of citizens and in which their legitimacy is by inter-entity, which are the municipalities. decentralization must be democratized, decentralized must be for entities which have their own democratic legitimacy, it cannot be to create more or less gray entities, more or less without their own democratic legitimacy and which do not meet the objective of decentralization. This is a fundamental divergence that the Left Block has with the Government in this matter and we cannot fail to put it in full frontality. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u5	To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Eurídice Pereira of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u6	Mr President, Deputy Minister, the topic of decentralization has been recurrent in the political discourse over the years, but the fact is that, through various processes developed, with greater or lesser expression, they have always known little by little. The step that is now proposed, translated into the scope and determination of the Government's proposal, with which the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is revising, takes a very different character from the previous experiences. I recall that the time was great in 1976 when local power was established in the Constitution. Four decades ago, it is now in our hands to make the present moment another great moment with the deepening of the diversity of competences under the rise of the autonomy of local democratic power. It is possible that this is a promising bet — a witness to the involvement of the various parliamentary groups, which have brought in an expressive set of initiatives. I would like to point out a condition which presides over the Government's initiative: trust. I would point out that in the Government's proposal there is no lack of confidence in local authority as regards its training, which, as we all know, has not always been so. It is possible today to say that this reform can be regarded as inspired by the motto of Alexandre Herculano, for whom « it is the progress of ideas that bring about reforms rather than the progress of public evils that make them inevitable». This is not a forced reform, this is a desired and planned reform. I will say another way: it is the maturity of the democratic process that brought us here and that allows us to be available to discuss the empowerment of the principles of subsidiarity, until Portugal is of the most centralizing countries of the European Union, despite the identification of a wide list of competences with an inadequate scale. Having said this, Minister, I would like to ask you a few quick questions. The first question, which is about a particularly sensitive aspect and which has to do with financing, is very direct: how is the model of allocation of funds to decentralization developed? The second question, which is equally important and which should be clarified, has to do with investment: the level where the investment decision will take place depends on the value of this investment or will other criteria be taken into account? Finally, and I merely use, exemplifyingly, one of the areas to give better knowledge of the way and the options with which decentralization will be made: what specific model of competence distribution is developed for the health area? That is: how is the model marked and how far is it intended to reach? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u7	To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Emília Santos, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u8	Mr President, Deputy Minister, at the end of last year, we had the opportunity to state in this House that decentralising competences for local power is an act of State intelligence. Today, we have come to reaffirm it not in a free or circumstantial way but with the legitimacy of those who have always been on the front line in the process of decentralization, with concrete experiences that have yielded results and that need to be resumed. In addition, we have come here to reaffirm that the PSD did not only have a decentralizing speech, it had a practice of implementing reforms. We have work done, which makes us very proud. We are proud to have concluded negotiations for the implementation of pilot projects for decentralization in the areas of education, culture and health. We are proud to have completed the implementation of these projects. We are proud to close a contractual programme with 34 municipalities, covering 1, 8 million inhabitants. Also, therefore, the PSD has not only legitimacy as a heritage to raise the flag of decentralization and fight so that the will to adopt a framework law does not lie in the plan of intentions. Our willingness to work on a solution that serves Portugal better and Portuguese is public and has already been announced. It is the country and the Portuguese who ask the State to keep its duties properly in mind and to be able to place them in the hands of those who perform them best for the benefit of all. Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is with the authority of the one who did and did not merely give any hints that we have seen here expressing our concern, and even strangeness, in relation to certain matters contained in the Government's bill. We are, of course, surprised by the Government's position on inter-administrative contracts in the field of education. The Government has given express assurances to the municipalities that these four-year contracts are to be fulfilled. Mr Minister, I ask you whether the word will be honored. It is that this bill provides for the repeal of the decree of law which has entered into those contracts. And it goes further: it says that it will maintain the contracts until the full realization of the transfers of new competences, which means that contracts will immediately expire with that transfer which may occur soon in 2018. Having said this, it seems to us that inter-administrative contracts are at risk and, above all, it seems to us that the possibility of the delegation of competences, which was carried out as part of the pilot project, can become final, as they foresee and believe, and thus achieve the expectations of those involved and withdraw in the decentralization of competences. Question: Is the government fully aware of what you are doing or is this just another mistake of mutual perception that will have to be corrected immediately? Mr Minister, we also miss the Government's express will to transfer to municipalities the competence of the assessment of buildings for the purposes of IMI collection. And I'm surprised - because decentralising is not "striking to the corner" the skills that we do not like or are uncomfortable to us, decentralizing is a serious job for everyone who can perform it best. There must be gains in change and not retreat. in this case, this is not proven. We cannot therefore agree with this unexpected proposal, as we cannot promote inconsistencies in the accountability of the assessment of buildings for the purposes of the IMI. Finally, Mr Minister, we also find it strange that, in terms of housing, this proposal wants to decentralise what has been decentralised for a long time. The transfer of the state's housing heritage has already taken place since 1993 and has not been further because the municipalities themselves do not want it. I ask you: do you want to impose by decree what the municipalities have said so far they did not want? We also do not understand what is intended to be decentralized in the area of rent and urban rehabilitation. The municipalities already have full autonomy in these areas to develop the initiatives they understand, unless the government wants to put an end to public policies associated with urban rehabilitation financing and lease support programmes. Or does the government want to find a pretext for disinvesting national housing public policy? Oh, my God! I believe and hope that it will not be so. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Under-Secretary-General, we, PSD, have a path towards decentralization, we have concrete proposals and we are available to discuss them. We will be able to measure our intervention in this process by the degree of openness and dialogue that the Government and the Socialist Party demonstrate in their appreciation of our proposals. on our part, they don't have blank checks. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u9	To answer this set of questions, I have the floor of Mr Under-Secretary-General Eduardo Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u10	Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Members and the honourable Member for all the questions they have put to me. Mr Soares, we can no longer agree on the priority and importance of fulfilling the constitutional approach of the decision. That is why we do not cast any other debate. But this debate is about the transfer of competences and decentralization to the authorities that have four decades of evidence given and which is provided for in the constitutional framework in order to strengthen decisively the competences and conditions of their exercise by the municipalities and the parish. As I said, we do not cast any other debate and we believe that this is the right time, that we cannot add it, that this should involve the participation of all the banks. Let me now answer both Mrs Eurídice Pereira's questions and Mrs Emília Santos' questions. What we see is the government's commitment. We will be pleased - and so far I fear - if we also have a commitment on the part of all the banks to this goal, i.e. that the next autumn cycle 2017 / 2021 will be marked by decisive steps towards the expansion of the competences of both municipalities and of the parish. To that end, we must define the rules in this legislative session so that, when the elections are contested in September or October, anyone who votes will be fully aware of the rules on which his mandate will be exercised. With regard to the question of freguesa, what is included in the Government's programme is the undertaking of reassessment and, therefore, we have taken up here and we have seen ourselves here in the deliberations of the Assembly of the Republic precisely in the sense that, regardless of the positions we have not cast and the criticisms that have been made in due course, we can evaluate what has been done, how it is working and, above all, how we can do better. Mrs Eurídice Pereira, we have, in Portugal, at the end of 40 years of local democracy, the participation of the authorities in public revenues of just over 14 % and that puts us far away from the European average, which is 25 %. Our objective is that we gradually approach this European average and therefore enter into the National Reform Programme the intermediate objective of achieving, until the end of the legislature, 19 % of the participation of municipalities and fregueries in the management of state revenue. This is, of course, associated with new competences and is associated with a role that, today, municipalities already have in public investment, in which their participation is 46% in public investment. In fact, even yesterday in the debate on education it was emphasized that the intervention of municipalities is due to the fact that at present 150 schools are already in a process of requalification in which municipalities take half of the national counterpart, the other half being assumed by the central administration. Also in the area of health, we have to go further, especially in the area of primary health care, where we have established measures in this way, and a number of municipalities in the area involved have already designated an executive element of the management of local health units and have become chaired to the advisory councils, both of the EPE hospitals and of the SPA hospitals, or of the health centers groups. It is necessary to go further, mainly in intervention in primary health care. Mrs Emília Santos, I look very positively at the availability of her bench, expressed in her speech, in order, in the field of expertise, to work intensively towards an effective deepening of local democracy, because in this matter we have a history and we have commitments. So yesterday, in terms of education, throughout the whole day, we analyzed a little more than a dozen inter-administrative contracts, which he referred to, and the most one hundred municipalities that have been managing schools in the 2. o is 3. the cycles based on implementing contracts. They are more than a hundred municipalities that have been managing their competences since 2008. That is why what we want is not to eliminate experiences; it is to evaluate them, go further and do better, in the deepening of powers in the management of own tax revenue, in intervention in the area of housing, or in the management of the returned or abandoned public heritage, which has also been the target of an initiative of the Social Democratic Party. It is in these areas that, in the field of expertise, we will certainly deepen the debate to, on the basis of the need for more decentralization and more local democracy, without forgetting anything that has already been done and without taboos about the past, do better in the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u11	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u12	Mr President, Minister, today we have an important debate here, but we do so with a discussion that is still ahead of us: that of regionalization, that of the creation of administrative regions. To speak of the decentralization of the State, to speak of the administrative organization of the State also requires that we take into account the need for the creation of the administrative regions and the need for the implementation of regionalisation as reflected in our Constitution. Mr Minister, the process of transfer of competences, in fact, the processes of transfers of competences we have had in our country have not been positive, I would say, even that the evaluation is quite negative. In a synthetic way, what has happened is a transfer of charges without ensuring the conditions for the implementation of the competences, i.e. competences are transferred without their means. So it was with the 1st schools. the cycle and with the kindergartens, so it was with the implementation contracts in 2008, with a Government of the Socialist Party, and so it was with the inter-administrative contracts in 2015, with the Government of the PSD and CDS. So, as I said before, the charges and powers are transferred, but the conditions are not given, and we believe that this is not a good example, we believe that, in fact, a process of decentralization of competences must have a assumption and must be underlying a set of other principles. So the first question I would like to ask you is the following: what guarantees does this government give, what guarantees are put to us, in order to ensure that the process of transfer of competences or decentralization, which it is proposing, is not more of the same, and that indeed a set of issues, which they say and which they are to be resolved, are not, as they have been without resolution in view? We believe that it is important, when we speak of a process of competence, to have a diagnosis, to have a survey of the situation, to predict evolution, to evaluate impacts, to predict the conditions, because otherwise no powers are being transferred; charges are being transferred. We were aware that the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities requested this set of elements and, as we know, they have not yet been made available. It was about this which, secondly, I would like to hear from the Minister. A third very brief question: in a process of transfer of competences, in order for it to be participatory and truly democratic, we must involve the various entities and associations of our country. The point I put to the Minister is that in this matter, discussions have been made in the sectors as a whole, which is also reflected in the Government's own proposal. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u13	Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u14	Mr President, Minister, this matter is serious, very relevant and the CDS would like to make its contribution. In fact, it seems that it is too obvious that, as the Socialist Party was saying, this is a desired and planned reform. As far as it is desired, I tend to agree, even because the CDS has put forward proposals, the Social Democratic Party has put forward proposals and, as far as I have heard, the Members of all sides have suggestions and many doubts about the matter. However, that this reform is planned is that I already have the greatest doubts and that is what I wanted to focus on. If it is true that the CDS agrees with decentralization, it is clear that, yes, we want it - we do not want it - we do not want it to be any kind of regionalization, whether it is headed or not.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u16	Therefore, to any attempt at a regionalization in an encapsulated way, the CDS will not give its consent. However, with regard to matters of decentralisation, which have as principle, as Mr Minister said, the proximity of the decision, a coherence between the various powers, essentially legal certainty, clarity, certainty and, above all, an effectiveness of the services provided to the citizen, the CDS says 'yes'. So we need to know exactly what we are talking about what we are going to work on, in particular we need to know which areas are. It also seems obvious - indeed, all the banks asked questions about this - want to know what kind of financing these new powers will have. What is the funding? Because transferring to the authorities—and I'm not going so far saying that the government wants to transfer to the authorities what bothers it or what doesn't work for it, I'm going to believe that we're going to take advantage of the installed experience of 40 years of local power,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u18	... we will take advantage, including, of errors, overlaps and incompatibilities of some competences in various areas, and there are some that are not clear in the document, from the beginning the management of the heritage... The proposal refers to « all and any heritage classified in the municipality... » But what? Everything? From a municipal, national,...? Do you want to interfere where? Who interferes with what? Who has what? Questions have also been asked here about inter-administrative contracts or even property assessment. How will that be done? But I could even go further. Mr Minister, as has now been said by the CFP, and we also want to endorse this: how can we seriously discuss this subject in a coherent manner in a perennial way—because we cannot, either in terms of education or social action, always be in experimentalisms or there is no reason for this—without studies? Says the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities that has no studies. Mr. Minister created a number of specific study groups. Where are the documents? Where are the conclusions? How is it compatible with the CCDRs? The Minister had an idea, he went back to that idea and today we do not know exactly what is going to be done in the election, in the transparency of the CCDRs. How do the inter-municipal skills remain? How do they connect with those of the municipalities?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u20	Mr Minister, we have many doubts and very little certainty. Mr Minister, for the beginning of the conversation and, taking advantage of our goodwill and our willingness to work together in real decentralization, you have to tell us a little more and...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u22	...you have to promise us to send the studies. If we can't do everything we'll have to do less, but the little we can make it effective, that is sustainable, that strengthens the local power and also the necessary competences of the central power with the inter-municipal competences, with the regional competences and with the competences of the Portuguese municipalities. Mr Minister, you have our availability, but what we have is very little, we need much more, and I therefore leave a question here that Mr Minister can explain to us what is really in the head of the government and in the head of you Exa. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u23	In reply, Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u24	Mr President, I thank Mrs Paula Santos and Mr Hélder Amaral for the questions that have been raised, which, as you have mentioned, allow for a joint response, without any less consideration for the relevance of the issues they have both raised. It is that, essentially, what I interpret of the intervention of the PCP and the CDS is a profound willingness to be partners in this debate and, with the other banks and with the government, to participate in a project of deepening solidly a path of decentralization. Mrs Paula Santos has asked us, with all due respect, what assurance is that the Government could give it no more than that, except what has happened other times when the decentralisation will and the transfer of competences were not accompanied by the necessary resources. Mrs Deputies, we are presenting this initiative at the time when we committed ourselves, at the end of a little more than one year of government, because it was the time we needed to work intensively with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities and the National Association of Freguess, so that we could have unanimous support for this phase, with the commitment that in two years, to return autonomy to local authorities, increased resources and increased the capacity to access European funds and investment. Mr Hélder Amaral tells us that we are here before a framework law, a general law, and that we need to know much more. You are absolutely right, Mr President, just as you are right to Mrs Paula Santos. And therefore our commitment is that, beyond this stage, there is broad convergence in Parliament around the decentralising sense, during the specialized work, the Government will present not necessarily formal proposals, because some of them will depend on the final version coming out of the work of the Assembly. In other words, the Government undertakes to present proposals either to the associations of autarchs or to debate with the sectors — that of education, health, with the various sectors — or also to the Parliament of drafts of the Local Finance Act, the law on the organisation of municipal services, the sectoral diplomas on the various areas mentioned here. Like, for example, the sectoral diploma on education, the sectoral diploma on health, the sectoral diploma on heritage management, to express the areas which Mrs Paula Santos and Mr Hélder Amaral had the opportunity to question. But it's more, much more. So our commitment is, from this week on, to this debate, to further intensify the work with all of us. Either the work with the representatives of the authorships or the work with the various sectors, or the work, which is fundamental, with Parliament, because this cannot be a reform of the government, must be a reform of the whole Portuguese society. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u25	Mrs. Members, during the speech of the next speaker, the Bureau will accept the entries for the requests for clarification they wish to make. For an intervention, Mrs Berta Cabral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u26	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The PSD remains in line with local power policies. We were the first political party to place the decentralization of State competences on the political agenda of this Parliament, from then on in the discussion of the National Reform Programme and later on in the discussion of the State Budget in November 2016, in the form of proposals for amendments to the Budget, which were ultimately plunged by the left-wing majority. We have been defeated, but we have not been defeated, because, when we have the reason on our side, we persist until the force of reason overcomes the reason of strength! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u27	Last January, we presented our projects again and here we are discussing them in an open and frontal manner. Having returned 40 years of democratic local power is consensual that, the local power was a key piece in the democratization of the country, in improving the quality of life of people and in the development of the territory. The PSD, as a large party of local power, recognizes and takes pride in the contribution that the autarchs have made to our country at the same time that it recognizes that they have much more to give to Portugal. Someone has doubts that the result of the work carried out by 308 municipalities and by more than 3000 parish churches will always be incomparably higher than that developed by the centralized executive power in São Bento or in the Land of Paço? Oh, my God! Of course not! However, this consensus in the speech did not have the proper correspondence to the level of action. The truth is that the political will to achieve it has fallen far short of the oral consensus. And it is also true that it was during the last government, led by Pedro Passos Coelho, that we witnessed decisive progress in the process of decentralization.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u28	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u29	A reality noted by the current Prime Minister, at the time President of the City Council of Lisbon, who at a conference in Porto stated on this matter, and I quote: "I must acknowledge that I have found more good will of the current government than of the two previous socialist governments".
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u30	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u31	The work done by the previous Government, with regard to decentralization for local authorities of a number of relevant competences, has to be resumed, deepened and extended to the entire universe. That is what we propose with the four legislative initiatives that we bring to the debate. Projects that are included in the strategy of decentralization of the PSD, where they also cover the creation of the status of low density territories, and the draft law that aims to enable the use of public assets of the state by the local administration, both in discussion on the specialty in this Parliament. Education, health, social support, forest management, coastal management, territorial management, veterinary medicine, food security, are areas where municipalities can and should intervene, providing better services to the populations, with greater efficiency and efficiency, i.e. with the economy of means, rapid response, with face, sensitivity and responsibility. We therefore present concrete proposals for universal transfer of competences in those areas at the same time as we propose to maintain and extend the implementation of inter-administrative contracts in matters which, remaining in the field of national policies, can be advantageously delegated and executed by the local authority. Similarly, we consider it beneficial to enhance the creation of shared and value-added centres at the level of inter-municipal entities, which allow for scale gains and resource optimization, as well as we recommend the reorganization, extension and implementation of a public administration service delivery network, in line with the Approaching Programme implemented by the previous Government. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, after many and various announcements, the Government proposes to this Parliament a framework law on the transfer of competences to local authorities and to non-densified inter-municipal entities, which mentions competences that already reside in local authorities along with new competences to be transferred, creating confusion and interpretative uncertainty. A proposal for a law which has no immediate effect, making it dependent on its implementation of sectoral decrees. If it is understandable that the Government's bill does not delimit at all all all the matters to be transferred, we cannot, on the other hand, allow a margin of regulatory discretion as excessive as that proposed to us, particularly with regard to legislative authorization to amend the IMI Code. The PSD will not allow, because it cannot, nor will it ever, allow this Parliament to be instrumentalized. The PSD remains available, as a specialist, to debate and build the best policies and best solutions, but does not alienate the competences of this Parliament, nor is it in our aim to abdicate the intervention and parliamentary follow-up throughout the whole of the diploma. To ensure that the decentralization process is accompanied by the transfer of appropriate financial resources, by reviewing the financial arrangements of local authorities, is also one of the assumptions that the PSD does not abdicate either. in this process, the PSD is not on the side of party A, party B or government. The PSD is on the side of the autarchs, on the side of the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u33	We continue to consider that it is entirely appropriate for the new mandate to take place within a framework of new competences. One year has already been lost and we risk losing four more if we don't act fast and assertively. We consider it important that there is a parliamentary structure dedicated to this legislative process. The PSD proposes the establishment of a possible parliamentary committee for, within 90 days, the process of decentralization of competences in the municipalities, in the parish and in the intermunicipal entities. [[PSD applause.]] As I said recently from the rostrum, Mr Minister, and we follow, this is the beginning of a path and therefore we must work quickly to reach its end. The transversality of the topic, covering almost all areas of governance, the profusion of legislation that becomes necessary to adapt and produce and the tight timetable we have impose the involvement and dedication of Members of all parties and of all areas covered by decentralization, areas that transcend in great part what are the exclusive competences of the competent parliamentary committee. We therefore propose that this committee should be set up. Parliament and the Government, through the supporting parties, must be in line with the expectations that have been created on this issue, which is what the Portuguese expect. for our part, we, PSD, continue to believe in a truly representative democracy, decentralized, agile and close to people, so it is with us. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u34	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, to ask for clarification, Mr Pedro Soares. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u35	Mr President, Mrs Berta Cabral, had some hope that the honourable Member — with all sympathy, of course — would tell us, as a result of the region, of the benefits of regionalization, and that one thing is the autonomous regions, another is the administrative regions, but it would certainly be an excellent witness. And it is interesting that, like the Government, the PSD is not even able to verbalize the word « regionalisation », which well demonstrates the meaning of decentralization. The PSD clearly places in its intervention, and this was very evident, Mrs. Deputization, which is for municipalities and intermunicipal entities. And if we understand that decentralization should be for the municipalities, because we argue that, in terms of the local scope, management should be local, nothing more than that, we understand that beyond the local level, the supra-municipal and regional authorities must also have their own entities in order to be subject to this regionalisation. You consider these entities to be the inter-municipal communities. Madam Member, do you not worry that such important tasks are aimed at entities which do not have their own and direct democratic legitimacy, which do not have the direct scrutiny of the population, which are not subject to universal and direct assessment by the citizens? Oh, my God! It seems to me that this is essential in a democratic state! Yes, ma'am, you have put here the question that there has been a prospect of centralization in the Land of Peace. But what is the PSD alternative to centralization in the Land of the Peace? Is it decentralizing for entities that do not have their own democratic legitimacy? Oh, my God! In other words, these entities have less democratic scrutiny than the government itself. Is this what you are defending? Oh, my God! Is it a more gray State, a less scrutinised State, a State which, at the supra-municipal, intermunicipal or regional level, does not, in fact, have the very legitimacy conferred on it by democratic elections? Oh, my God! More: what is the PSD position in relation to the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto? Do you argue that there is a direct election? In fact, it was in the Government's programme that the direct election of the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto would be, perhaps, even the most interesting component of this process of decentralization, but that was precisely what fell, and it also fell — it is the perception that we have, but we may be wrong — by the pressure of the PSD, which does not want the direct election of the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto. This is an undemocratic perspective, Mrs Deputies, with regard to the process of decentralization, which we are deeply concerned about. We want decentralization to democratize, to bring citizens closer to decision-making and supervision and not to move them away. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u36	In reply, Mrs Berta Cabral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u37	Mr President, Mr Soares, I would like to start by telling you that I did not expect such a question from you outside the context. in fact, anyone who does not want to decentralise starts talking and discussing other matters. That's what the Block here brought us. He told us exactly that he does not want to decentralise and that he wants to talk about other issues. This debate is about decentralization! Decentralization in the parish, municipalities and municipal entities. And, in order to respond very quickly, the inter-municipal entities are exclusively composed of autarchs, legitimately elected autarchs. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u38	You now have the floor to present the initiative of the CFP, Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let us discuss this with the awareness of what remains to be done. The debate on the administrative organization of the State and democratic decentralization reveals the absolute need for the creation of administrative regions, which the Constitution calls for and which continues to be implemented. Looking at the organisation of the State taking into account the administrative regions enables a more coherent approach on which the most appropriate level of power for the exercise of each of the tasks and powers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u41	To advance with regionalisation is what creates the conditions for a regional development policy with the active participation of authorities and economic and social actors. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Constitution of the Portuguese Republic highlights the principle of the organization of the State to decentralization. As we have already stated here, a process of decentralization of competence requires the recovery and affirmation of the autonomy of the local authority, requires a clear and sustained framework of conditions for the transfer of competences, requires a system of financing with the necessary means, stability of implementation and predictable evolution and requires the replacement of organizational, material and human conditions. We want to contribute to this debate with concrete proposals. Today we present the draft framework law laying down the conditions and requirements for the transfer of tasks and competences to local authorities. in such a process, before defining what, it must be defined how, under what conditions, with what objectives and principles it must obey. This is what the CFP is seeking to answer, because we cannot decide which powers to transfer to the authorities without considering the conditions for their exercise. We believe that the transfer of powers must respect the following principles: the preservation of the administrative, financial, heritage, legislation and internal organisational autonomy of local authorities; the guarantee of universal access to public goods and services necessary for the implementation of constitutional rights; the national cohesion, efficiency and effectiveness of public administration; the unity of the State in the legal division of tasks between public and administrative entities and the adequacy of its exercise at the levels of central, regional and local administration; the adequacy of the means to the needs; and the stability of financing in the exercise of the tasks which are committed to them. Decentralising is not synonymous with deconcentrating or delegating. Decentralisation means the power to execute, but also the power to decide. We therefore propose that the protection to which the authorities are subject should be that of mere legality, respecting their autonomy framework. We also propose that the authorities that receive new tasks and powers have the powers of planning, programming, implementation, conservation, maintenance and supervision and that they be accompanied by all the means which affect them. As regards local finances, we propose that, in accordance with the constitutional rules, the authorities have their own revenue and participate by their own right in the proceeds of taxes and other revenue collected by the State, that there be a reversal of the allocations, if there be a reduction in their financial allocations, and that, when tax participation is found in the State Budget Act, the State shall be linked to the replacement of the securities concerned in the following three years. The full implementation and exercise of the tasks and powers requires that the financial resources take account not only of the expenditure associated with each specific allocation but also of the degree of implementation between the programmed and carried out, the amounts necessary to execute the programmed and the identification of deficiencies, in particular of human and technical means, increased from 5 % to 10 % for administrative expenditure.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Decentralisation cannot correspond to the deresponsibility of the government, nor to the transfer of charges and discontent from the central administration to the local administration, transferring the negative burden and problems that persist to the authorities. We are also in deep disagreement with the prospect of transferring competences to inter-municipal entities. These entities are not authorities, nor are they part of the State's organization. Decentralisation cannot jeopardise the universality of State social functions or fundamental rights. Decentralisation should help to combat asymmetries and inequalities and not to deepen them. in the limit, it is not acceptable that there are 308 education policies, or 308 health policies, or that the strategy of preservation of classified cultural heritage varies according to geographical location, without a national orientation. The State must ensure that no citizen is discriminated against according to the area of the territory where he lives and that the right to education, health, social security and culture must be guaranteed to all citizens on an equal footing.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u45	in the context of this discussion, we seek to give centrality to proximity. The proximity and knowledge of concrete reality are aspects that take on enormous importance, but they are not the central issue. What is the value of proximity when it does not correspond, in terms of conditions and means, to respond to the problems identified? Have implementation contracts and inter-administrative contracts resolved the problems relating to the school park or the lack of operational assistants? No, and it was not because of lack of proximity, but because it did not create the right conditions and means.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u46	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A true process of decentralization of competence must be broken by the political options of the past, by attacks on local power, by disrespecting and violating its constitutional principles, and by not allocating adequate resources to the authorities. A real process of decentralization alone, in fact, is that it will result in a better and more capacity to respond to the aspirations of the population, to the provision of quality public service, respect for workers' rights and their valorisation and the affirmation of local autonomy. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u48	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u49	Mr President, Mrs Paula Santos, the CFP is very pleased to say, and well, that the country needs decentralization. It needs decentralization in order to modernise, it needs decentralization in order to correct asymmetries, it needs decentralization in order to develop economically and socially. But then what does the PCP do? The PCP votes against! The CFP votes against all bills, all bills and all draft resolutions that deal with decentralization of competences and responsibilities for local authorities. The PCP votes against! [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] And he votes against, regardless of the areas in which this decentralization is called for. Whether in the areas of education, health, transport, culture, social solidarity, heritage management, civil protection, coastal or territorial management, the Portuguese Communist Party invariably votes against, and votes against the most varied and, let me say, wrong reasons. It votes against, because, it says, it disresponsibles central administration. It votes against, because local authorities are unable to support economic interests. She votes against because, she says, she attacks the social functions of the State. It votes against because, it says, it leads to the privatization of public services. It votes against, because it opens the door to local authorities' negotiations with the private sector. Mrs Deputy, for the CFP, the authorities are private companies and the authorates are dangerous people who sell themselves to the interests of the large economic groups. [[Congrats from PSD Members.]] [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] Madam Member, the CFP is the verbal champion of decentralization, but it is the last ranked in its action. in fact, in fact, Mrs Deputy, the CFP is the most centralist party of the Portuguese democratic regime.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u50	Mr President, in fact, nothing is added to the debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u51	Be at ease, because I am not talking about democratic centralism, this Leninist principle that, still today, is part of the genetic code of the Portuguese Communist Party, I am talking about centralism in the true meaning of the word. It is true that the PCP, Mrs. Member, seeks to disguise this particular feature, and the bill that today submits to this House is an example of this. Mrs Deputy, the bill of the Portuguese Communist Party does not identify a competence, an assignment to be transferred to local authorities. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u52	The bill of the Portuguese Communist Party, Mrs. Member, is not even able to identify a domain, only one domain, where this decentralization of competence could happen. So, Mrs. Member, I ask: is it today? Is today the day when the CFP will finally elucidate us on these issues? Is this the day when, perhaps, Mrs Deputy, the country, the Portuguese and the Portuguese autoarchs will be rid of the communist rhetoric on decentralization of competences? Oh, my God! Is this the day, Mrs. Member? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u53	In reply, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u54	Mr President, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, we already realize that the PSD does not want to do this debate in a serious way. [[PSD protests.]] He did not realize, or does not want to understand, the initiative that the CFP brought the debate, because it is contrary to what the PSD did, in particular when it was in the government, in which, for example, it approved or, better said, imposed a kind of « line fishing», to municipalities the transfer of competences in the area of education before checking whether the conditions were guaranteed so that this transfer of competence could be achieved.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u55	That's it! Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u56	Mr President, if the questions relating to the school park, which have already been transferred to the municipalities, are implemented and what means have been allocated.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u57	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u58	What was on your initiative was that there would be no increase in public expenditure. So, with the underfunding that education has been voted upon in recent years, in particular by your government, whose result is in sight, if you did not solve it, how would it be solved? Oh, my God! Problems persist! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u59	Is it today that you're going to clarify or not? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u60	With regard to operational assistants, what happened? The door is being completed. It would mean that, in fact, it does not respond to those who are the real needs of schools. Have the problems of the shortage of operational assistants with your process been solved, which they called « decentralisation », but which has not passed from a delegation, in which the competences continued, and continue to be the government? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u61	Attention to time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u62	I will finish, Mr. President. What they did was a contract with the municipalities for the municipalities to carry out your skills and, above all, with a guardianship of merit. Take a good look at the respect they have for the autonomy of local democratic power! [[PCP applause.]] This is how, over the years, they have reduced the transfers of money to the democratic local power, which has changed the Local Finance Law...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u63	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u64	... and that have decreased the participation of the municipalities. Are you guys coming to talk seriously now? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u65	Is it today or not? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u66	What the PCP brings here today is much more serious. What the CFP proposes here, and I will even finish, Mr President, is much more serious than your statement, Mr President. Let us see, but in reality, how we want the organization of the state. And it's not from a perspective like that of you, a regulatory state,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u67	Madam Member, I ask you not to abuse the generosity of the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u68	... that then transfer to the economic groups the implementation of a set of rights. Finally, Mr President, our perspective is quite different: the rights to public services must be guaranteed,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u69	It's not today!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u70	... but we must look at the organization of the state at the three levels, the national level, the local level and the creation of administrative regions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u71	To present the initiative of the CDS-PP, Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The theme we are discussing today is, in its essence, unanimously defended by all the parties represented in this House, i.e. all defend greater decentralization. The decentralization of central power powers to local and regional power is essential for the effective and better economic and social development of the entire Portuguese population. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u73	in the CDS, we have no doubt that this is the way, we have no doubt about the fundamental mission played by local authorities in offering quality public services to Portuguese, integrating the first line and closest to citizens. But if we all agree on the benefits of greater decentralisation, we have already differed in terms of how and matters to be decentralised. And these are, therefore, the object of fundamental discussion that we must all debate. The former PSD Government / CDS-PP has started this path of strengthening decentralization. For this reason, the XIX Constitutional Government, PSD and CDS-PP, developed and implemented a profound reform, in particular with regard to the responsibilities and competences of local authorities and intermunicipal entities, through Law No 75 / 2013 of 12 September. On the other hand, in terms of areas such as education, health, social security and transport, several diplomas were approved to implement the decentralization of these social functions. The path initiated by the previous government of decentralization should be further and concrete, which is why the CDS did not want to stop participating in this whole process and present a draft law on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u74	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u75	Thus, and to give continuity to the alluded path, we understand that in the context of education, health, social action, civil protection, beaches, forest management, animal health, food security, heritage and housing we must decentralize competences for municipalities and intermunicipal entities. We have a long work ahead, much to discuss and develop, with the intervention of all — the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, ANAFRE ( National Association of Fregues), authorships, but we understand that there are some basic principles and rules that must be observed and of what appears to result from the diploma presented by the government are not properly guarded. Thus, and from the point of view of the areas to be transferred to the municipalities, we understand that, before the transfer of any competence, all situations should be analysed and the effective performance of the functions in question safeguarded. To this end, we must take into account the specialties of each of the municipalities that make up the country, its valences, capacities, means and all the criteria that enable us to assess whether certain competence can, and should, be exercised at local level or by an intermunicipal entity. Moreover, in addition to these transfers, it must be duly safeguarded that the municipalities and the entities involved have all the financial, material and human resources necessary for the full performance of these functions. It is also necessary to safeguard that the exercise of competences by municipalities and inter-municipal entities does not involve an increase in public expenditure. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as we mentioned earlier, we will not give the Government a blank check on this matter, we want it to be discussed in this House, as well as all the fundamental legislation for the implementation of decentralization. We have many doubts about the many areas which the Government wants to decentralise, because one thing is decentralisation and another is decentralisation over the functions of the central State and which only the State should provide. In addition, it seems to us that the proposal that the Government brings here is not a properly analysed proposal, discussed with all partners, particularly with the municipalities. Mr Minister, the Government should have already submitted to this House a report on the transfer and delegation of competences carried out in recent years, highlighting the main weaknesses and virtues, but of what we understand, this has not yet been done. We hope that it will be done as soon as possible. The government, since its takeover in November 2015, tells us about decentralization and the importance it assumes in its policy. We agree with the principle. It happens that, of course, many of the skills they want to transfer to the municipalities, referred to in the proposal that they present to us today, have not even been discussed or analyzed with them or with their representatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u76	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u77	of what we know, the government has created working groups to discuss decentralization, but little or nothing has advanced, and according to public statements by the President of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities, it has never submitted to them documentation on the transfer of the competences we are discussing here. Mr Minister, in this way, it is not understood that the Government really wants to promote decentralization, leaving out the main protagonists. How does the Government, for example, intend for municipalities to evaluate and reassess buildings, in particular for the purpose of winding up the IMI (municipal property tax)? Most municipalities do not have the means to do this and national inequalities, caused by local interests, can be serious. Moreover, the President of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities has already publicly said that the chambers refuse to have the power to assess and reassess the buildings for the purposes of liquidation of the IMI. It will therefore be advisable, in our view, to maintain this competence in the central State. Also, the transfer of the buildings destined for social housing belonging to the State will be a poisoned gift to the municipalities, if the State does not rehabilitate these buildings which, in general, are in a state of great degradation and therefore its reception has been refused by the municipalities. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, these are some of our many concerns. Decentralisation will never take place without a commitment from all but above all from the government. However, that is not what this bill, which we are discussing here today, entails. We sincerely expected more of those who repeatedly claim that decentralization is the cornerstone of state reform. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u78	Mr. João Vasconcelos has the floor to present draft resolution No. 722 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ), BE.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The April Revolution, through the Constitution of the Republic, consecrated one of the main achievements, the democratic local power, emanating from the popular will of the citizens of this country and which, soon, celebrated 40 years of existence. A local power based on democratic legitimacy and participation, autonomy and rejecting central power centralism. During the lead years of the PSD government / CDS-PP, the local democratic power suffered one of the greatest attacks of memory: millions and millions of euros were subtracted from the authorities, through the failure to comply with the Local Finance Law; services were drastically reduced or degraded in a disastrous way; a false decentralisation was tested and more than 1 thousand phleges were extinguished at national level, the ruler and the frame by Mr. Relvas. The Constitution provides for the decentralization of competences for the municipalities, municipalities and regions, as organs directly elected by the population. Decentralisation is a priority for democratizing and deburocratizing the state apparatus. It is also known that the Government's Programme includes decentralization mechanisms, but always made for municipalities and parish, and that it also foresees the existence of a new authority, metropolitan areas, elected by universal direct suffrage, subject to decentralization of competences. If the government had already retreated from the replacement of extinct parish, there was a new retreat from the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto. Although critical of this model, the Left Block could always, and could, accept, because effective and true decentralization will only be achieved by the creation of the administrative regions. We unequivocally defend regionalisation, because only with the direct election of decision-making bodies will the best achieve the administrative decentralization and democratisation of the State. In any case, not advancing regionalization, we have nothing to object to the institution of metropolitan areas as local authorities. What is requested is an equal treatment for the entire national territory. But even in the metropolitan areas, the government has retreated. Today, we are discussing a number of initiatives from the government and from parties, and the Left Block could not miss this debate. We have nothing to object to the projects submitted by the PCP and the NAP, but we do not say the same about the proposed law, the government, and the PSD and CDS projects. The Government's proposal seems to be based on Decree-Law No. 30 / 2015 of the PSD Government / CDS-PP, which sought to materialize an alleged decentralization, better by saying, a municipalization of the social functions of the State in the areas of education, health, social security and culture. The government goes even further in other proposals for decentralization of competences for the bodies. If, in many of these areas, the transfer of competences is peaceful to the Left Block, in others we do not accept or deserve serious reservations. For example, the management of personnel in education or health, the management of educational resources, gambling, food security, the management of protected areas and the evaluation and re-evaluation of buildings should not be within the framework of municipal competences. Where the government says « kill », the PSD and the CDS say « spola », just look at their projects. [[PSD protests.]] The PSD presents the figure of inter-administrative contracts, which during its government were highly contested, especially in the education sector. Another concern for the Left Block is the foreseeable lack of a scale of resources, technical, human and financial. Another unacceptable aspect has to do with the decentralization of competences for inter-municipal communities. In short, the proposals of the Left Block are based on the following assumptions: that decentralization of competence promotes democracy, citizen participation and decision-making capacity and, as such, only local authorities (freguesia, municipalities and administrative regions) ; that decentralization does not include competences of public services whose exercise does not recommend a municipal scale; that in urban areas new forms of territorial organization, such as metropolitan areas, can be created; that decentralization of competences is aimed at maintaining the universality of public services; that decentralization of competences protects workers' labour rights; and that, finally, progress on the path of regionalisation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u80	Mr André Silva has the floor to present draft resolution No 725/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a), of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u81	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The NAP does not accompany the Government in the process of massive centralisation of State powers in camera presidents. The Government and the PSD want to put the presidents of the chamber to assume the full management of matters such as land, environment, protected areas, animal health, protection and animal welfare, food security or public health. But the unusualness of this process lies in emptying the State of control and protection of these matters, which, because of its importance, are in the field of central administration, and centralizes them in the presidents of the chamber. The presidents of the Chamber, who will take up the board of directors of the CCDRs (coordination and regional development committees), bodies without democratic legitimacy and political plurality, will monitor themselves. in the explanatory statement of the bill it is read that this process makes the state more intelligent, more modern and then stronger. For the NAP, on the contrary, Mr Minister, the obvious disregard for the principle of separation of functions and the existence of conflicts of interests that facilitate mechanisms of favour and corruption in the management of policies in universal areas and the common good is concerned.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u82	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Susana Amador.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u83	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members: The reform of decentralization and the path for us to point out, in our proposal, part of fundamental principles, such as autonomy, subsidiarity, universality of public service and equal access opportunities, without neglecting a fair allocation of resources. It is a reform that embraces the future, development and democracy. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group thus leaves for this debate with complete openness, with a view to obtaining a maximum common denominator, for it is a reform that requires broad consensus, audacity of what is to be said with ANMP, ANAFRE and other entities, scope and convergence. It is with great pleasure that we find that all parties have had legislative momentum and have wanted to bring this issue to discussion. It is thus with a constructive spirit that we welcome the debate. This political will reflected in the initiatives of all reveals the recognition of the importance of the role of local power, elected throughout these 40 years of democracy, and emits an unequivocal political signal: although, from different assumptions or drawing different solutions, there is an undeniable recognition of the importance of decentralization of competences to bodies closest to people, since proximity is the basic principle of true democracy and motor for progress. We know the proximity, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it strengthens economic and social development, deepens the national unity and solidarity ties between all Portuguese. We are sure that together, in the committee responsible, we do not see the need to use the establishment of another committee, since we have a committee for this purpose, we will be able to build the legislative building that will honour these 40 years of democratic local power. After 40 years of local power, we can and should go further in the implementation of Article 6. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. As the Prime Minister recently observed, the countries of Europe that went further in their development capacity were also those who managed to mobilize local energy, with higher levels of decentralization. So we have to move forward. A democratic, representative and participating State cannot devalue decentralization as an engine to assert itself as such, nor can it ignore the value and dimension that the local power in it should occupy. In particular, in the field of health, education, housing or social action, excessive centralization of competence is notorious, which does not allow such agile and timely action by the Public Administration in solving the problems and needs of citizens. So we must move forward. One of the areas that grows in skills transfer is that of education, where there is an accumulated experience in Portugal very significant and positive. The authorities today develop, with great dedication and competence, an ongoing expansion of pre-school education. They have a careful and consequent look at the construction and preservation of the elementary school park: they ensure food, school transportation and promote the success of our young people. Therefore, we must trust, prudently and serenely, with respect for the autonomy of the school and the teachers, as we wish to improve the public service of education, adding quality, specificity and openness to the school environment. It should be pointed out that this reform will never desensitize the State of its role in the educational, social or health system, which will remain in the path of pursuing a social and well-being state. In fact, this government has - it has proved to be exhausted - we have come to strengthen this social state. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, this reform opens up the doors of a new ambition and appreciation of the local power that is in a position to know deeply about the asymmetries and social needs, as well as the aspirations of people, which must always be the essence of politics. For them, we must open this reformist door, the key that opens it is called 'decentralisation', which is always rhyming with democratization. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u84	Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, the Government presents to us a proposal for a discussion which aims to transfer significant State powers to the management of the authorities and others that will still come, such as that of the forest or protected areas. As a central element of this discussion, the Greens want to reaffirm that decentralisation, in our view, should not lose sight of the creation of the administrative regions and that it should be presumed to defend and enhance the autonomy of local power, always in view of better meeting the needs of the people and to promote the quality of public services provided to the citizens. Decentralisation cannot and should not be seen as a way of disresponsibility of the central State of its functions. Decentralisation cannot occur only because the State does not want or cannot respond to what it intends to decentralise. And, in view of the proposal under discussion, the Greens cannot fail to record the many serious reservations and concerns it offers us. First of all, because some of these transfers affect areas that our Constitution includes in the social functions of the State, hence health and education. We are therefore talking about areas which the Constitution has chosen as fundamental to our quality of life and well-being and which should therefore be universally assured to all citizens and throughout the territory. On the other hand, this decentralization — it is said in the proposal — is intended to bring the management of citizens closer, but the proposals for transfer in the area of education, for example, totally contradict this purpose. The Government is proposing to withdraw powers that are currently provided by schools to move them to the management of the authorities. It happens that those who are closest to the students, families and those who best know and dominate the problems of schools are exactly the organs of schools and teachers. In fact, in the area of education, the current government is giving continuity to the municipalization process that the previous government has advanced in 15 pilot municipalities. But today, we are already getting the echoes of the pilot cases and the teachers' complaints are more than many, in addition to the autonomy of the schools being compromised, as is the case of Sousel, in the Portalegre district, where the autonomy of the school is being fully challenged.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u86	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u87	In addition, this proposal can enhance the untied management of national political strategies, where each one acts in its own way on its own, each one on its own. This issue is particularly important, especially at the level of education, health, culture or nature conservation. In addition, there are political decisions in certain sectors, which require a level of technical knowledge that must be taken by those who hold it, and this knowledge is neither, nor can it be, dispersed. In fact, even yesterday, in the debate of the Heritage Forum, promoted by the association platform in this area, this matter was very focused. Today, the decision is supported by a specialized technical hierarchical chain that is fundamental but that runs the risk of being broken. Therefore, in conclusion, I would like to say that the Greens are in favour of decentralization and are in favour of strengthening local power, but there is a lot on this proposal that is neither clear nor marked, and everything is open for further diplomas. As in the authorities, nor in the state are eggless omelettes, it would be essential to guarantee them, but the proposal does not guarantee them. More: if so far much has not been well done with the management of the State, this is not due to the structure that manages, but, yes, to the lack of means. Let me give two examples: in education, problems of lack of assistants in schools do not come from those who manage, but from the fact that they are not hired more auxiliary; in culture, the recovery of heritage is both well done locally, as at national level and with high levels of cooperation, in fact, between the two sides. Their abandonment is due more to the lack of money from the State budget for culture than to any other reason. Therefore, it will not be the decentralization that will solve the problem; on the contrary, it may even withdraw the knowledge that is very technical and centralized. The authorities, not having that knowledge, will have to resort to the private, spending even more money. On the other hand, this decentralization can lead to decisions being taken at random, depending on the location, without any national strategy, in areas and areas where this strategy is essential to ensure not only the same rights for all citizens, but also to manage knowledge, knowledge, reflection, in terms of national development and also in terms of resources. As you can see, all of this requires more debate and more reflection. in this matter, there can be no rush, there must be the involvement of professionals, authorities, associations and organizations representative of workers, without ever losing sight of the constitutional forecast of the creation of administrative regions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u88	For an intervention, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha has the floor of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u89	Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Minister, Mr. State Secretary for Local Authorities and Mr. State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mr. Members: Forty years after the first free elections, which were a clear sign of local democracy, came the moment of the great reform that decentralisation enshrines, at this time, that it is assumed by all political forces with parliamentary seats as of particular importance, since the strengthening of the competences of local authorities value its intervention and power the results of the management of public resources. The authorities have always called for new competences to strengthen local autonomy, aware that more responsibilities and means enable, in proximity, greater speed and effectiveness in solving problems and in implementing policies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u91	The assessment that ANAFRE and the National Association of Municipalities made of the proposed law presented by the Government, which today presents the debate in general, giving a favorable view and showing all the availability for the work to be followed, makes it clear that the authorships, through the structures that represent them, are in accordance with this proposal in general, awaiting the sectoral diplomas that will clarify the mechanisms of this same decentralization. In fact, we are faced with a legislative process that calls and — I would also like to say — brings together all the political forces. this is a good sign of the initiatives that all parties have entered the Assembly of the Republic and that, after the debate in general, will be examined with all openness and interest by the Socialist Party. The decentralization of competences concerns not only the municipalities, but also the parish that have in many cases been the only representation of the State and entity providing public services to populations in more distant, low-density territories and with difficult links. The Government of the Socialist Party recognises the importance of both the people's services and the dynamisation of the territory. It therefore proposes the strengthening of its own powers, absorbing in this framework many of those that are now delegated and allowing others to be negotiated between the municipalities and the parish, through the conclusion of inter-administrative contracts and after approval by their deliberative bodies. When we talk about the transfer of powers, we also talk about the transfer of financial resources that are affected by the new competences that will be duly safeguarded, such as the government's commitment, in every year in the State Budget Act, as well as the necessary human resources. There is a commitment on the part of the Government that the transfer of powers will not constitute an increase in duties for the parish. We note that it is still clear that transfers of new competences are differentiated according to the nature and size of the parish, considering the population and the ability to implement each of them. The Government of the Socialist Party, with this bill, gives the body a commitment to transform the model of operation of the State, beginning with the local authorities. We are living at a time that, after completion, will make history and will enable municipalities, municipalities and communes and communities to better service to populations and a better quality of life for all. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u92	Mrs. Members, it is not possible to postpone other requests for speech from other parliamentary groups, since the dynamics of interventions do not allow it. I therefore give the floor to Mr. João Torres of the PS for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u93	Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Minister, Mr. State Secretary for Local Authorities and Mr. State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mr. Members: Today we are discussing several parliamentary initiatives that seek, in the first instance, to achieve a common objective, to better serve citizens and to make the state more efficient and closer to people. It is not by chance that the discussion on decentralization deserves increased attention from all parliamentary groups, from society and from the Government. In addition to all the reforms that Portugal lacks, it is important to clarify the framework of competences of the direct and indirect administration of the State, as well as of the authorities themselves and their associated structures. For this reason, in its Programme, the Government has enshrined the transformation of the model of operation of the State as a zenith of its intervention, mobilising efforts to make possible a climate of frank and fruitful dialogue and search for the essential and necessary consultation which Mr Minister has mentioned so well. The bill presented by the Government to this House is, in this sense, not a starting point, not a point of arrival, but a solid basis of work which deserves the parliamentary agreement of the Socialist Party. It is a proposal that is defined in three essential elements: reformism, ambition and balance. Reformism, for the undeniable capacity to deepen the principles of subsidiarity, decentralisation and autonomy of local authorities, providing that who best can manage, who best can decide and who best can resolve has all the conditions for this purpose, including the human, financial and property resources that are necessary and essential. The ambition, by the range of domains covering health education, from culture to housing, without forgetting, for example, the port and maritime areas and so many others whose management is tangential to the planning policies of the territory and the environment. Finally, the balance, by the inevitable and essential safeguard of regional autonomy and by the consideration of the role of the parish, without neglecting, in due course, the presentation of sectoral decrees and the evaluation of transitional and phased periods in realisation, so that the desired efficiency and effectiveness are not at any time impaired. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, more than 40 years back on the Revolution of Cravos, which determined precisely the autonomy of local power, this is the right time to reflect, but, fundamentally, this is the right time to act. Local authorities are responsible for some of the most remarkable mutations that the country has known over the last few decades. To promote the extension of its powers does not mean simply to provide them with increased responsibilities, it precisely implies the valorisation of our democracy, and, Mr President, that appreciation is enhanced whenever the decision-making power draws closer to the citizens more a level, more a step, more a step forward, with transparency, rigour and weight. It is therefore democracy itself that today, more than ever, demands this transforming action for the benefit of the public and Portugal more prepared for the challenges of the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u94	Mr Norberto Patinho, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u95	Mr President, Mr Deputy Minister, Mr State Secretary for Local Authorities and Mr State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mr. Members and Members of Parliament : The decentralization and strengthening of competences and the autonomy of local power are, for the Socialist Party, structural themes, assumed as a cornerstone of State reform. They are represented in the Electoral Programme of the Socialist Party, the Agenda for the Decade and the Government Programme. in a state whose centralist trend, allegedly justified by the economic and financial crisis, has been aggravated in recent years, the government, with this bill, clearly takes a break with the ideological prejudice of those who see in the authorities mere services deconcentrated from the central administration, clearly assuming a new way of governing based on proximity, simplification and effectiveness, a way of governing that guarantees better public services for all citizens and throughout the country. in the Socialist Party, we believe, we have always believed, that the construction of a more just and more cohesive country will only take place with a clear and unequivocal participation of the local power. The path that is taken with the proposed law points to a universal decentralization, conducive to equal opportunities for all municipalities and for all citizens, based on the promotion of territorial cohesion, the improvement of the quality of services provided to the populations and the rationalization of available resources. By not confusing administrative decentralization with contractualization or delegation of powers, the document under consideration respects municipal autonomy and guarantees the integrity of the sovereignty of the State in all areas of the interests of the local authorities. With full respect for the authorities and authorities and their autonomy, greater proximity is fostered between public decision makers, citizens and territories, through the strengthening of the powers and powers of the municipalities and the parish. I would like to congratulate you, Mr Minister, and the Government, on the climate of trust that has been built and deepened in relations with local power and its representative associations and that makes it possible to respond to the demands and aspirations of many years ago. With 40 years of evidence given, the authorships are rightly worthy of the confidence that the Government gives them with this deepening and strengthening of the competences and corresponding human, material and financial means necessary for their exercise. More means, more competences, more responsibilities to better serve the people. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u96	Mr Pedro Soares, from the Left Block, spoke also for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is important that we all have the perception that it is important to move forward towards this reform of decentralization, but we need to have our feet firmly on the ground. That is not enough to say that we are available for all the debates, we must do them, we must promote them, and that is not the availability that I am seeing from some sides of this House. Note: about 70% of our municipalities have less than 30,000 inhabitants and what we see today is that the chamber presidents of these municipalities, and many others, are already the largest employers in their area. at this time, with this process of decentralization envisaged by the government and which has, for the visas, right-wing support, these chamber presidents will also be decisive in employment, especially in health centres and schools; they will be fundamental in determining the criteria for the allocation of social security allowances; they will have roles in inter-municipal committees in the distribution of Community funds and competences that are far beyond their own municipal legitimacy. We are suffocating local democracy and this must be an essential issue, because, as we know, less local democracy does not mean better public administration or better public administration. What we need to encourage and increase is more local democracy and for this there must be a scale, plurality must exist. However, we have the greatest doubts that this process of decentralization leads to this same local democracy or to the deepening of democracy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u98	For an intervention, Mr Carlos César now has the floor of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u99	Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Minister, Mr. State Secretary for Local Authorities and Mr. State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mr. Members : I would like to make a very brief final intervention, on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, to reiterate and stress the commitment of the PS in the process of dialogue and decision-making which we hope will achieve a historic and significant advance in the process of political decentralization for our country. First of all, we believe that this can and should be an appropriate time for us to seek and achieve the consensus that enables us to progress in the development of the acquis and the constitutional matrix of the Portuguese State in matters of proximity, efficiency and democratization of the State structure. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, we understand that the circumstances of the generality of the parties have contributed to this debate, through the presentation of projects, is a good sign, regardless of easily detectable differences.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u100	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u101	These are, after all, exceptionally relevant subjects for good governance and for the strengthening of citizenship. We do not ignore that in this Assembly of the Republic, as outside it, there are different sensibilities about the virtualities, models and the intensity of political decentralization. That is why it is the purpose of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group to consider all these contributions, without prior agreements or biases, in the work to be followed in the respective parliamentary committee. We will try to value what unites us most and not to argue over what is a cause for disagreement. We are in line with the necessary consensus and dialogue, as always. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we will do so because we understand that it is desirable and possible for the parties to conclude with firmness and legislative use the establishment of a new framework of competences for local authorities and inter-municipal entities, enhancing the value of the approximation of these decision-making levels, for better administration in areas relevant to local and regional development. It will therefore be important to deepen these new terms, either in areas such as the service of care to citizens and businesses, whether in diversified areas, from education, health, social action, the management of the territory, civil protection, the environment, housing or culture. In each case — I repeat, in each case — however, it will be important to make an effort to establish the level of responsibilities whose distribution we confirm as the most useful to regional realities and the country as a whole and also to safeguard the universe with its own and specific potential, in the case of autonomous regions. It is with this guidance that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will evaluate all proposals, including those of the Government. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the reform of the State, which has been discussed over the last few years without unfortunately having achieved the relevant realisations, cannot now dispense the effective deepening of decentralisation. on this exact day that another anniversary of the death of an extraordinary Portuguese woman, born in the parish of Fajã de Basso, is signed, about 1500 km from the assembly that brings us together here and of which was also Deputy, Natália Correia,... [[Congratulations from the PS and the members of BE José Manuel Pureza and PCP António Filipe.]] ... I finish, invoking not only his memory of autonomy, such as the word that, in this circumstance, she could use, of encouragement to the political decision-maker. Starting from Ode to Peace and paraphrasing: «Open the doors of history, let life pass through». Against fear, which I know is unfounded, I remember that there is both bad administration and good leaders at central and regional or local levels. However, a strengthened authority, such as a valued intermunicipal entity, such as a region that urgently decentralizes, are evidence of maturity and an increased engine of entrepreneurship, efficiency and equity. Well, I know we're not going to make it as far as we want, but I hope we stay closer. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u102	For an intervention, Mr Luís Montenegro, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that at the end of this debate we all realize the importance and interest of the matter we are discussing here. I am referring to the following: how can the State, the Administration be more efficient? How can the State, the Administration provide more and better services to citizens? How can it make effective use of available resources and ensure accessibility to the main public systems? But also how can the State, the Administration boost a healthier, more lasting and more marked growth in the economy? This is the focus of the debate we are having here today. Take care of territorial planning either in metropolitan areas, whether in low density territories, offer better services in education, health, social support, preserve and value culture and heritage, the environment, natural resources of the forest to the sea, all these purposes, all these designs require deep reflection and sound decisions. Decisions to think about the future and not tied to the present or the past. Decisions to think about people and local communities and not about governments or parties. Structural decisions and not merely conjunctural decisions. The PSD called you for this debate a year ago, when we discussed here the National Reform Plan. [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u104	at that time, they disenfranchised our intentions. The PSD called you again for this debate, when we discussed here the State Budget for 2017. The Government and the supporting parties rejected this debate on this occasion. The PSD now summons you again,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u105	The PSD looks like the school bell!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u106	...and we really hope that, at the third, it will be at once and that, this time, for once, the words may coincide with the acts. The Portuguese society and the people specifically considered deserve our dedication and deserve to be heard and integrated in our decisions. this legislative process must clearly result in how and in what ways the central administration may delegate to be able to be executed by the local administration. It must also be clear that financial, heritage, logistics and human resources will be allocated to the authorities to continue these skills they will acquire. The step that is now intended to be taken is great and must focus on a clear idea: to build an organization of the State appropriate to the country's social and economic progress, capable of, if not eliminating, at least mitigating inequalities and stimulating opportunities. from our point of view, the Government's proposal is clearly insufficient. In some moments, it even becomes inconsequential or, at least, ambiguous. But it is still a valid proposal, which must be taken into account in Parliament. But it is known that in the PSD we have gone further in this process of decentralization and we have brought to this debate four political and legislative initiatives, which are more dense, more ambitious and promote, more transparently, this decentralisation process. Of course, they will not be perfect and it is clear that they can also be improved in the debate that everyone here has been prepared to take place. Moreover, it is our understanding that all contributions are indeed welcome. All the contributions that may come from this Parliament — from Members and Members, from parliamentary groups, but also from outside this Parliament — from the local organisations, social institutions, from the academy, from all those who can bring this reflection and from this decision-making process positive contributions that can enrich the choices we have to make. for our part, we have all these contributions. And we also intend not to delay this process any longer. We really want to speed it up, because it is our understanding that there is no time to lose. So I'm done, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, by reaffirming here the proposal we have already made in this debate, of the method which, from our point of view, can be more effective and to make the debate that we can hold in this Parliament faster and deeper: to create a specific committee, possibly a committee, which, in a swift and exclusive way, can be devoted to the treatment of the initiatives under discussion today and of others which, perhaps, can still reach the Assembly of the Republic. This committee will therefore favour a cross-cutting discussion of all dimensions and sectors of activity that are based on the projects that the parties and the government have brought to Parliament. That is why we cannot expect anything other than this proposal to be viable. It's just, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, those who have the same interest in approaching positions, those who even want to contribute and help those who can consensualize decisions that can be planned in the lives of people and in the organization of the country for the next few decades, those who are "open-minded" in this debate and on this path, they will certainly not opt, as in the past, for the lack of appearance in an instrument of discussion and decision as simple as they can achieve.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u107	Don't hold grudges!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u108	It is the challenge that I am putting forward here, with the awareness that this time there will be no new obstacles that can discourage the deepening that the Portuguese require of a process which I repeat must have as a result a closer administration. And not only closer, because proximity itself does not build good decisions, proximity favors, but we have an obligation to go further than making decisions close, they have to reflect on each citizen's daily life, on the daily life of each community, on the life of the country, so that it can be more prosperous and that prosperity should not be harmed by political-party maneuvers. This is the challenge we present to you, aware that you will not waste it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u109	Mrs Emília Santos has the floor to account for the entry into the Bureau of an application.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u110	Mr. President and Mr. Members have submitted an application to the Bureau by the PSD Parliamentary Group, requesting that Article 96 be amended. the Rules of Procedure, be included in the vote script to be held tomorrow, 17 March 2017, draft resolution No 740 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Establishment of a possible committee for decentralization of powers at the level of local authority ( PSD ).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u111	I wonder if anyone opposes you. [[Pause.]] If there is no objection to this, this diploma will be included in tomorrow's vote script. You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Under-Secretary-General.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at the close of this debate, I would like to tell you that, from my experience of parliamentary experience of about two and a half decades, either in the benches, in legislatures with very diverse characteristics, or from the many times when I had the opportunity to speak as a member of the government, this day is certainly one of those who will mark what I think most will be the true heart of Parliament's competences and what is a meeting with history here we honour 40 years of democratic local power and, on the basis of a great convergence we have seen here about the decisive role of local authorities, we build, assuming what are different points of view, what are legitimate concerns and reservations about aspects in which it is fundamental to go further, to achieve better, to characterize more deeply what is the meaning of reform. But I find here a very significant convergence of all the benches around what is fundamental: to deepen local democracy, to comply with the Constitution, to give a stronger force to a democracy of proximity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who wanted to be very clear about the essential aspects of this debate. We are here to fulfil, in our own time, a fundamental and structural part of the Government Programme, which the Prime Minister has, in fact, always underlined, calling it the true cornerstone of our vision for the reform of the state. And we're doing it in our own time. We have launched this task since the first day of the constitution of the government. For a year, we worked intensively with the associations of autarchs, with all areas of government and with all areas of public administration. We do not act as those who have left such a theme relevant to recent times, to the last months of an absolute majority legislation. It is at this very time that we want to build with all the convergences necessary so that the next autonomous cycle, from 2017 to 2021, can be marked by the development of this project of local democracy. The second crucial issue is the responsibility of the State. There is no option here for the deresponsibility of the State. It is up to all of us to the sovereign bodies and to the Government to ensure equal opportunities, universal access to public services and social functions of the State to be exercised by public authorities. There is no process of privatization or de-responsibility here; there is a deep conviction here that it is at local level that in many of these areas we can better serve the people, with better quality of public service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The third essential issue of this debate is the effective application of the principle of subsidiarity. We have no doubt that there are functions that must continue to be exercised, by their nature, at national level, by the government, by their structures. This is how to define rules in the career of teachers, so to the matrix of the National Health Service, so to the establishment of fundamental rules of access to social benefits or the principles of defending the cultural heritage of national matrix. We have no doubt that there are better functions at regional level. And here we are to define, to discuss what are the functions of a regional nature. But there are functions that, even for a question of scale, have a supramunicipal nature. Thus, when municipalities understand it, it is up to metropolitan areas or intermunicipal communities to perform these functions that require a supramunicipal scale.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u113	You've outlived your time, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u114	I shall conclude, Mr President. That is also why we do not accept any lip service of distrust of local power, because it is at local level that scrutiny, accountability and supervision are more effective. We have no doubt about that. And if they fail, they will be these public policy agents responsible for all forms, until, unlike other kinds of powers, they are evaluated daily by the people and definitively at the end of each electoral cycle, as will be in a few months. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I leave here with a joy that I have rarely had in this Parliament, with the confidence that, with the critical participation, with the active participation of all benches, we will build, with a sense of urgency, with a sense of responsibility in the coming months, in this Legislative Session, the best solutions. thus, sector by sector, with the necessary resources, with clear and transparent legal regimes, we will achieve the best solutions to better serve local democracy, to consolidate a strategy of subsidiarity, decentralisation, to comply with the Constitution, but above all, to be better at serving Portugal, Portuguese and the state of democratic law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-16.u115	Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us therefore close our work today. I will announce tomorrow's agenda, beginning at 10 a.m. First of all, we shall proceed to the general debate of Bill No 50 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates the legal regime for transport by vehicle from an electronic platform and from draft law No 450 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establish a new legal regime for passenger transport activity in decharacterised light motor vehicles ( BE ), together with draft resolution No 724 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures that modernize and introduce transparency in the taxi sector ( BE). Secondly, we will hold a debate, scheduled for the request of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, on the CETA, the Global Economic and Trade Agreement, between the European Union and Canada. in the third point, we will generally appreciate Bill No. 416 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Establishs mechanisms to protect the blue heritage by proceeding with 13. the amendment to the Urbanization and Building Legal Regime ( PS ), together with draft resolutions 645 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Consecrate on May 6 as the National Tile Day ( PS ), 683/ XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Protection of Portuguese tile heritage ( PCP ), 720 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of Portuguese tile heritage protection mechanisms ( CDS-PP ) and 723 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Protection and enhancement of Portuguese tile heritage ( BE). Fourthly, draft law No 452 / XIII ( 2 ) will be discussed in general. ( a ) — Planning of the nuclear emergency and involvement of citizens ( The Greens ), together with draft resolutions 601 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends the establishment of an emergency response plan at the Almaraz ( BE ) and 726 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government draw up a radiological emergency plan for cross-border nuclear accidents (PAN). Regular votes are scheduled at 12 noon. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. Good afternoon to all. [[It was 17 hours and 27 minutes.]]
