ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 3 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. Before we come to the first item on the agenda, which is on the subject of recalling the 60 years of the Treaty of Rome, I give the floor to Mr Duarte Pacheco to take account of the dossier. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the projects of lein.os 464 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — establishes a legal regime for logging, re-arboring or afforestation actions ( BE ), which falls to 7. the Commission, and 465 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the establishment of forest management units ( BE ), which fall to 7. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Members : It is celebrated this March 25, 60. the anniversary of the signing of the Treaties of Rome. of the ruins of the II Great War emerged this unparalleled project in history. The European construction was born of the will of peace, freedom and democracy. The dignity of the person and the citizen is his DNA. It is also the result of the vision and wisdom of its founding fathers: Konrad Adenauer, Joseph Blech, Johan Willem Beyen, Winston Churchill, Alcide de Gasperi, Walter Hallstein, Sicco Mansholt, Jean Monnet, Robert Schumann, Paul-Henri Spaak and Altiero Spinelli. His existence created bonds of unity, he was wounded, brought prospects. the European economic and social model was born from it. Since his beginnings he faced crises, but he always knew how to overcome them and strengthen himself. Today the European Union faces complex and decisive challenges for its strength: to complete the architecture of economic and monetary union, ensuring stability, solidarity and growth; to preserve the social pillar and regional cohesion policies by correcting asymmetries; to welcome refugees, in the absence of armed conflict; to respond to environmental, energy challenges and the new industrial revolution; to make the voice of Europeans in a multi-centric international community in which respect for human rights is far from being acquired. The answer is not in reducing nationalism, centrifugal forces, fear of the other. Land of freedom, Europe will only be if it is true to its values. It is also a matter of realism. No partner, whatever its size, today has the means of facing the global challenges alone. The European Union is its best projection force. Without it the world would also be poorer, more divided and less human. For Portugal accession to the then European Communities was a meeting with the aspirations of its citizens, to which only democracy has opened its doors. It was three decades with moments of enthusiasm and others of discouragement. Even so, it has never made a sign of disbelief in European ideals and a large majority of our fellow citizens look at the aspiration of a strong and cohesive Europe, not seeing contradiction between its development and the affirmation of our identity. The words of Jean Monnet are now kept: « Nothing is possible without men, nothing is lasting without institutions». It is up to us today to continue the legacy we have received from successive generations of men and women, from various political beliefs and confessions, that all have worked to make the Union a condition of the present and promise of the future. [[PS, PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall now give the floor to the various parliamentary groups. by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Regina Bastos, who is also Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u4	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: 60 years ago, in the rubble of World War II, which made more than 50 million victims, six countries committed themselves to maintaining and consolidating peace, bringing European countries closer to a common project. First were the raw materials: coal and steel. Then closer ties between the Member States allowed political and social ambition and the vision of an enlarged Europe to other countries, promoting shared values and solidarity among peoples. It was never intended to build this political, economic and social construction, to erase national identities. He has always affirmed respect for freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and human rights. The achievements achieved for our citizens are visible: the common market, with free movement of persons, goods, capital and services; the single currency; environmental policies; security policies; protection of fundamental rights; equality between men and women. We have won European citizenship, which adds to national citizenship. When the time came for Portugal to consolidate its fragile democracy and to aspire to greater prosperity and social justice for the Portuguese, there was no hesitation from its political decision makers. The accession to the EEC in 1986 helped to realize a democratic model focused on protecting the full well-being of Portuguese citizens. During the years of Portugal's membership of the Union, PSD, PS and CDS led the affirmation of European values and participation in the deepening of the Union. But among the partisan forces that support the current government there are those who still reject the European project, who make a negative assessment of our participation and who depart from the dialogue of European families for the reforms and changes that are necessary. And this contradiction cannot fail to be noticed. Today there are complex times in the Union and we do not ignore that there is a differentiated agenda of the Member States. Portugal must contribute to an agenda of unity and solidarity so that together we will do more and better. We have to give the answers that citizens are looking for from Europe. It is necessary to end the political opportunism of governments which fear to blame Europe for its failures and to show as national praise the successes of a common Europe. The Union needs courage to make future reforms: complete unfinished projects, think of the younger people who are outside the labour market and seek solutions for the long-term unemployed. It is time to develop the European pillar of social rights. Europe needs to achieve economic and monetary union and create the European monetary fund. The challenges in the area of security and defence are there, and require immediate progress. Fair globalization does not sympathize with ideological prejudices, they come from the far left or the far right of Europe. Despite European and populist movements, the strength of this project remains present, 60 years later, and with the same values: peace, solidarity and economic and social progress. The Social Democratic Party knows Europe you want.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u5	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u6	I'm done now, Mr. President. We want a stronger and more united Europe. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u7	On behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr Vitalino Canas has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Those who propelled the Treaties signed on 25 March 1957 — and which Mr President recently recalled — are no longer among us, but if they could come back for a day, they would surely be surprised by the success of the work they started. This success can be measured through several indicators: the unprecedented duration of peace in Europe; the robustness of democratic practices and respect for fundamental rights; the prosperity achieved. Paradoxically, success is also measured by the resentment of those who seek to frighten us and defeat our values: terrorists attack innocent citizens in European capitals because they hate what the European Union can be and the reference that is for all those who, from the Western Balkans to the Caucasus, from the Bosphorus to the Don, aspire to integrate it. It would also surprise the parents of the European project: the circumstance of the greatest doubts, about the urgency and the inevitability of this project, come from the central core of the founding States. However, I am sure that this fleeting return will not hesitate for a minute: the contrast between the 60 years of war, persecutions, genocide, destruction, misery in Europe, which preceded them and who lived with the 60 years that followed in 1957. If this contrast exists, much is due to the institutions created by and from the Treaties of Rome. Today it is said that when there are elections in Europe, the European project is under scrutiny and perhaps even at risk. Each go to the polls is an episode that contributes to the feeling of permanent existential crisis. But this is not necessarily a sign of fragility. It is above all the demonstration that the European project is fully and permanently dependent on the citizens. There is a European Union because European citizens reaffirm it periodically. There are certainly hostile dynamics and movements to the European Union and to what it represents, but each electoral act, in which these dynamics and movements are defeated, reinforces the European project. The generations of the present are called upon to be no less daring or more fearful than their predecessors, to interpret the feelings of the peoples properly. Many disappointments, mistrusts and removals result from lack of sufficient European Union; these result from the lack of adequate mechanisms to safeguard the most deprived in crisis situations, subjecting them to uncommon sacrifices; the result of breaks of solidarity between the Member States; the European Union has thus far failed to create a defence and security architecture capable of effectively facing increasing threats; the removal of institutions, the lack of democratic accountability, the alienation of the national parliaments from European decisions. The sixth scenario, which will result from the debate of the five presented by the European Commission in its White Paper, must respond to these shortcomings. in this evocation of the 60 years of the treaties, more than half of which with Portugal at the centre of European construction, and of the women and men who imagined them...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u9	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u10	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, in this recall of the 60 years of the treaties, more than half of which with Portugal at the centre of European construction, and of the women and men who imagined them, the best honour is to refuse the absorption of the discourse of their detractors and accept the solemn commitment of renewal and improvement of the project that has been left to us. [[Congratulations from the PS and PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u11	by the Parliamentary Group of the Block of Left, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When the 60 years of the Treaty of Rome are signed, the European Heads of State met to affirm the divergence and securityism as the official policy of the European Union. The President of the Commission, Juncker, presented a white book where he presented five scenarios for the future of the Union. however, they are all a variation of the same: confirmation of a European Union at different speeds, which exchange cohesion for security policies and militarism. Long goes the time of the propaganda of the European solidarity project, which sought convergence among the peoples and which was a guardian of human rights. Long goes that time, but we're not surprised that it is either. Today — with more expression in recent years — is the division to reign, it is the time of endless austerity and of European institutions as propellant of the strongest countries, to the detriment of the weakest. There is no plan to reform monetary union or European treaties that will be able to respond to the needs of the peoples. Issues such as the restructuring of public debt, public investment or the public control of strategic sectors are furnished in the background and woes of those who dare to talk about it: it is persecuted and threatened with sanctions, which are no more than pure blackmail. Interventions such as that of Dijsselbloem, which demonstrate the spirit with which the European institutions reign, i.e. by prejudice and pre-power, but also those who support it, like Schäuble, are examples of how pillars such as cohesion or solidarity have been completely abandoned. Today, over 60 years ago, there is prejudice, closure, all-powerful austerity. The European Union celebrates the 60 years of the Treaty of Rome with an indelible stain: the policy of rejecting international conventions on human rights, the policy of building walls, not only physical ones, the policy of persecuting those who flee war and hunger, creating genuine concentration camps at their borders. While you do this, cover your eyes and say it's not your problem, because you've even made an agreement with Turkey. The European Union celebrates 60 years of the Treaty of Rome and, in the face of the problems highlighted, it does not point to any alternative, either to combat xenophobia or to the extreme right, whether it is of political will to restructure debts and bet on public investment. And wanting to be in the front line of such a project should not be a cause for pride. The Left Block rejects this path. In addition, it has always rejected it and has always proposed an alternative project, for the construction of cooperation that actually serves the interests of the people and that protects democracy and social, economic and environmental rights. This alternative, over 60 years of the Treaty of Rome, is needed more than ever and better than a birthday to kick off a Europe of peoples and peoples. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u13	by the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP, Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This 60-year evocation of the Treaty of Rome takes place within a few hours of the Council meeting the 27 Heads of Government of the European States. on this date, it is our duty to remember that the European project was the refoundation of the dream of a peaceful, democratic and prosperous Europe. It was the European project that guaranteed the absence of war within borders and there are already three consecutive generations of European citizens who had the happiness of being born and living without directly confronting the atrocities of war. It was the European project that built prosperity based on a political model of tolerance and a European social model, which is a unique heritage in the world, together with the social market economy. It was the European project that consolidated the new democracies in a Europe that was decimated in the 20th century by two of the worst forms of totalitarianism that the world has known. Finally, it was the European project that enabled Europe to be the world's largest trading power, to hold the second largest international reserve currency, to become a world-wide regulatory power and to assume itself as the world's largest single market and circulation. It is worth remembering these founding principles and the progress made in six decades, at a time when citizens look to Europe more as a burden than an opportunity. Looking at the progress that has been made so far, it seems to us that we are early on to announce the irreversibility of the end of the European project. The end of the European Union is possible, but it is not inevitable. The toughest years of the European economic and financial crisis have fostered feelings of return to a nationalist and protectionist Europe, as have caused a risk of division or perception between two Europes, one south and the other north, or, otherwise, between payers and debtors. These are divisions and prejudices that contribute so much to the erosion of confidence in the European project. It is understandable and legitimate the perplexity of European citizens in the face of the difficulties that the Union institutions have revealed in a response to a crisis that is very serious. Europe has been going through the biggest crisis since its inception and this crisis has become so long that it seems almost trivial. We hope, of course, that the European States will renew today's commitment to the ideals they have chaired at the foundation of the European project, but we also hope that this meeting will not only be a "family portrait" but that we will be able to re-acquire the awareness of the need to clarify, with unity and solidarity, where the European Union should go and how the reform of the European institutions will be carried out.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u16	Europe's management of the Brexit crisis will define its future as a credible, solid and sustainable political project. One of the greatest challenges facing Europe is to know how we can overcome and have common answers, for example with regard to economic and monetary union, banking union, deposit guarantee system and the European monetary fund, which are essential for us to refinance our economy. Portugal today has the authority of those who have gone through a crisis and of those who have managed to reduce their deficit by more than 11 % to less than 3 % to demand the completion of this same reform as well. We are also talking about a migration crisis of refugees that poses a very serious problem today from the point of view of the collapse of the European free movement system that was Schengen. There is also a serious and very serious security problem within our border. Portugal is fortunately far from this difficulty today, but we cannot consider this as definitive.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u17	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u18	I'm done now, Mr. President. in the space of two years, from Charlie Hebdo to London, 283 Europeans died, victims of terrorist attacks. It is also in this respect that we need to respond, from the point of view of coordination, to our difficulties. It was Jean Monnet who once said that « Europe will be forged from crises and will be the sum of solutions achieved in the face of these crises». Let us hope that these words are not empty words today. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PS and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u19	It is the time of the PCP Parliamentary Group. Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u20	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : 60 years of the Treaty of Rome is signed at a time of profound crisis in the European Union and the European Union. We found, 60 years later, that the promised European Union of rights, cohesion, solidarity, prosperity, progress and peace, after all, did not stop political propaganda to mislead the people. But reality is quite different. The peoples of the Member States of the European Union are confronted with unemployment, precariousness, poverty, inequality, social exclusion, an expression of the European Union's political options. In the face of the economic and social crisis, the refugee crisis, the growth of reactionary and xenophobic nationalisms, the European Union not only assumes its responsibilities, assigning them to external factors, as it intends to pursue the same political options, which have already shown that they are unable to solve the problems of the peoples. The so-called 'European construction process' has thus made clear its class nature. It is a process of economic and social domain, of concentration of capital and of power at the service of the interests of capital and the directory of capitalist powers, especially for Germany. The whole discussion about the future of Europe and the White Paper of the European Commission has only one objective: to save the European Union as an instrument in the field of transnational and large powers. What they point to the future is the deepening of the pillars of the European Union: federalism, with new qualitative leaps in the integration and withdrawal of new shares of sovereignty to States; neoliberalism, with the deepening of the single market and economic and monetary union; free trade agreements, such as the ECTA (Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement); the advance of the concentration of capitalists in sectors such as the environment and energy; and militarism, with foreign and defence policy, of interference in sovereign States, the growing cooperation with NATO and the call for increased defence spending. Moreover, they hypocritically address the social dimension to whiteen the consequences of their policies and at the same time legitimize them.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u21	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u22	The consequences of Portugal's integration into the European Union are clearly seen: destruction of the productive apparatus, destruction of jobs, attack on labour rights and social rights, withdrawal of sovereignty, greater dependence and economic and social backwardness. The constraints and conditionalities imposed by economic and monetary union, the budgetary treaty, the European Semester and economic governance are preventing the economic growth and development of our country. These are instruments and mechanisms that have been created to keep peoples and States on constant and unacceptable pressure and blackmail and to impose, for example, through the so-called "structural reforms", more withdrawal of rights and the return to the policy of impoverishment and exploitation that the Portuguese people rejected in the last elections. The statements made by the President of the Eurogroup, such as blackmails and interferences in a sovereign state such as Portugal, are unacceptable, as most recently did the European Central Bank. As the PCP campaign, Production, employment, sovereignty. To free Portugal from submission to the euro are fundamental conditions for development, investment in national production and employment and the affirmation of our sovereignty, the disruption to the constraints imposed by the European Union, the renegotiation of debt, the preparation of the country for the release of the submission to the euro and the public control of the bank. The European Union is not reformable. We must break this path and move towards a Europe of workers and peoples, a Europe that upholds and respects labour rights and social rights, a Europe that is truly cooperative and solidarity, a Europe based on mutually advantageous economic relations, a Europe of progress and peace. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u23	To conclude this item on the agenda, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Parliamentary Group of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At this time, in the Italian capital, European leaders mark the 60 years of the Treaty of Rome with a pump and circumstances. Outside the streets of Rome at this time, Europeans are protesting against the path Europe is following and accusing the European Union of being dominated by the bank. We believe that this date should be an opportunity to look back and rethink the future of Europe, of Europe worn out and not solidarity, which decides according to the great economic interests and always in favour of its stronger Member States. A Europe that continues to widen the gap between rich countries and poor countries, between rich citizens and poor citizens. An increasingly reduced Europe is protecting the interests of multinationals, as the negotiations around agreements such as CETA and TTIP ( Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership ) show. A Europe that continues to be built on the back of citizens, especially Portuguese citizens, who have never had the opportunity to speak on the path that Europe is following. An increasingly market Europe and less and less a people's and citizens' Europe. A Europe that has long removed from its vocabulary concepts such as social justice or solidarity, as, moreover, shows how it continues to manage the humanitarian crisis in the Mediterranean, with situations of violence and the imposition of discriminatory policies in the reception of refugees and which violate all the principles and values that are supposed to preside over the construction of a solidarity Europe that respects human rights. A Europe that finds its genesis in the demand for and the guarantee of peace with the creation of the European Coal and Steel Community, precisely so that the raw material needed for the belligerent claims is beyond the reach of the States, but that at no means contribute to the promotion of peace, on the contrary. A Europe that, by remixing, is showing the illusions that have been selling to us for decades. The euro, the last remedy or the last illusion, was presented to us as the solution for Europe. They thought there was going to be the solution to all the evils. With the euro, there was development, employment, kindness. It would be a joy! After 15 years of accumulated growth almost zero, with structural unemployment to double, with agricultural and industrial productions to retreat and with inequalities to accentuate, it is time to look back and learn how to make mistakes. But instead of rethinking this path, the main concern of you in Europe is to reinforce the path that has been pursued so far. Today, we are discussing the increase in competences at European level, i.e. less sovereignty for the Member States; we are discussing the existence of a finance minister for the European Union, perhaps to give greater strength to sanctions; and we are discussing whether the European Union budget should be redirected above all to the level of the structural funds in order, of course, to promote public-private partnerships. These are the priorities of you in Europe. And we believe that the reflection on the future of Europe should be the priority because, in continuing on this path, Europe cannot last much longer. It is therefore a question of survival. [[Applause from The Greens and Members of the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u25	Thus, at the end of the first item on the agenda, concerning the recall of the 60 years of the Treaty of Rome We will proceed to the appraisal of Decree-Law No 45 / 2016 of 17 August, which approves a set of complementary rules for the transition process of polytechnic higher education teachers, regulated by Decree-Law No 207 / 2009 of 31 August, as amended by Law No 7 / 2010 of 13 May [ Parliamentary assessments n. 22 / XIII ( 2 ). a ) ( BE) and 24 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PCP ) ]. To present the initiative of the Left Block, Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We could not start this debate without welcoming the presence of polytechnic teachers and also trade union representatives, the SNESup (National Union of Higher Education) and the FENPROF (National Federation of Teachers) who never gave up ensuring that these teachers and teachers were able to enter the career and stabilize their lives. The transitional policy regime has always been a struggle of the Block. We have been presenting, in this House, since 2009, multiple initiatives to combat precariousness in higher education. In good time, the Government extended the term of this regime by Decree-Law No 45 / 2016, which adopts a set of complementary rules for the transition process of polytechnic higher education teachers, regulated by Decree-Law No 207 / 2009 and amended by Law No 7 / 2010. The Bloc considers that this diploma is globally positive—we have also followed the whole process—and it constitutes the implementation of a resolution adopted in this House, which originated in a draft resolution submitted by the Bloc about a year ago and which had already been presented in previous legislatures. This is therefore a situation to which the Block has given special attention from the outset, in ongoing dialogue with teachers of higher education and their representative organizations. In short, this diploma is another tool for us to combat precariousness and we want no one to stay out of this struggle.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u27	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u28	To ensure that no one stays outside and that there is full justice in the measures to be taken, the Block presents a set of amendments. We cannot fail to point out a few issues that deserve our disagreement and for which we will present proposals for improvement. These amendments seek to correct the following aspects: firstly, the exclusion of teachers who, on 15 November 2009 had completed five or less years of full-time or exclusive-time work; secondly, the failure to allow remuneration valuations resulting from the transition to the categories of teaching career and to create injustices in the position of the teacher. These two aspects combine measures which, first of all, go against a law of strengthened value, the State budget, which defuses progress, and the question of exclusivity when entering the career, which questions matters enshrined in the career status itself. There is also the question of the time horizon necessary for public evidence of access to be pointed out to those who already have 20 years of service. We think that time is excessive—in fact, in 2010 it was 15 years, and we made that same proposal again, ensuring that the negotiations with the representatives of the sector themselves are to be taken seriously. Thus, to promote improvements in this Decree-Law is to guarantee stability to the teaching body of the polytechnic and to ensure this stability is to bet on the quality of teaching taught in these institutions. Here we are to dignify the teaching career of the polytechnic. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u29	To present the CFP initiative, Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u30	Mr President, Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education, Secretary of State for Science, Technology and Higher Education, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: On behalf of the CFP, I greet all the teachers of polytechnic higher education who, unjustly, were not covered by Decree-Law No. 45 / 2016 and those who were not properly valued and recognized and who are present here, as well as the organizations representing them. The diploma that adopts a set of complementary rules for the transition process of polytechnic higher education teachers represents a considerable step towards the existing situation, but there are still situations of serious injustices that affect many teachers and that need to be eliminated. There are teachers who have not been covered by any measure that would allow them to visualize the stability deserved and wage and professional valorization, and some have even abandoned the system. There were reports of a sense of revolt and a deep lack of hope among the teachers who were once again on the outside. And I remember some: « at the time of the conclusion of the doctorate, I was excluded: I was not enrolled in the doctorate on 15 November 2009 because I was a master’s degree and on 1 September 2009 was exactly five years old and not more than five years of service ». Or, also: « I have been a teacher since September 2007 in part-time and since 2008 in full time with exclusive dedication. In 2009, only returned from maternity leave (... ) was covered by the transitional regime under Decree-Law No 207 / 2009 of 31 August. From 1 September 2008 until 31 August 2016 I had full time with exclusive dedication. I had to conjugate hours, with no time, doctorate, maternity and two more daughters and a license for pregnancy at risk. I did not enjoy reducing time and paid propinas ( EUR 7000 per year ). I have a partial schedule of 50 %, which gives me a maturity of around EUR 540." Ladies and gentlemen. Members, these are real reports that mirror the dramatic reality of many polytechnic higher education teachers who, either because they have to pay propines, or because they are overloaded, rather than their reduction, or because they do not have more than five years of service on 1 September 2009, or for other reasons, have seen their vacillar lives and wages and professions be devalued with successive precarious contracts, as if they were meeting transitional needs. They are teachers who have been performing permanent functions for many years in institutions with qualified and valued work, which are needed by the institutions and who, in an administrative way, are in the immediate vicinity of losing their jobs, because they are covered by this diploma. We have concerns about the integration in the career of these teachers with regard to positions and due remuneration, considering that they have the right to be paid according to the work effectively provided. In addition, we consider changing the scope of public evidence at the level of teachers who can provide it and at the level of time needed to request it. We also advocate that the 15 years of the previous regime should be maintained for the application of public evidence until 31 December 2017. The proposals presented by the CFP today aim to respond to these and other problems of these teachers and definitely close a cycle of precariousness, instability and injustice, valuing wages and the profession of these teachers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u31	For an intervention, Mr. Minister for Science, Technology and Higher Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me an initial intervention today, March 24, the Student Day, which clearly symbolizes the role of students in the dignity of democracy in Portugal and the one that was the fight against dictatorship until the democratic regime installed on April 25, 1974. [[Congratulations from the PS and from the PS and BE Members.]] The issue that brings us here today is essential and critical of government policy. This is about valuing the political system and teaching in Portugal, effectively accumulating a measure that has been central to government policies, that of combating precariousness in higher education. Since the approval by the Government of Decree-Law No. 45 / 2016, it is important to say that they have already been able to enter the career 355 teachers, 140 assistants and 215 equivalent to deputies. This Decree-Law was indeed an important step in this process of valuing political teaching and combating precariousness, and indeed increased the period for the completion of the doctorate, but, on the contrary, we resolved the problem to many young people who had already completed the doctorate and who were not part of the transitional regime. Today, in addition to them, there are still 401 polytechnic teachers who are preparing their doctorate, and so if we add up to about 1523 teachers, who had already been integrated between 2009 and 2016, today we have about 38% of all career teachers in polytechnic education who, on the basis of this new regime, are now able to enter the teaching career. It is therefore an important step in the dignity of political education and also in what we are doing, stimulating research activity and its connection to the territory, businesses and social and cultural institutions. Polytechnic education is today a critical step towards our social and economic development and Portugal's training, certainly opening up the social base of support for higher education, attracting more students, because studying is necessary. Studying and learning is certainly the design of this government that clearly requires the strengthening of our teaching body. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u33	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u34	Mr President, Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education, Secretary of State for Science, Technology and Higher Education, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members : Today we discuss the Decree-Law No. 45 / 2016, which is due to comply with the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No. 53 / 2016, which, in turn, happens to the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No. 71 / 2015, which, in turn, seeks to overcome situations of unequal treatment resulting from the incorrect application of the transitional regime provided for in Law No. 7 / 2010, which, in turn, will amend the Decree-Law No. 207 / 2009, which amends the Statute of the College of Political Higher Education Teachers. I am going through all these diplomas and resolutions, because they well illustrate the awkward process that brings us here today and to which we urgently need to end. in the assessment of this diploma, there are, in fact, three interests to be guarded: that of teachers; that of institutions; and that of the financial sustainability of the commitments undertaken. As far as teachers are concerned, we cannot continue to use a transitional regime, which is almost 10 years old, to solve labour issues that are, in fact, structural, but it is also certain that the injustices that still persist must be corrected, preferably without creating new ones.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u35	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u36	As for the institutions, it is also necessary to meet the degrees of freedom due to the policies in order to be able to contract not necessarily who is, but who, indeed, has the profile necessary for the functions in the institutions. On the financial issue, in this case, it is perhaps the less active restriction, because the group of teachers covered is limited, because many are already in the institutions today, as well as much of their cost, and because the Act of the Budget of the State in force already allows many of the necessary corrections. All this transitional regime, which culminates in Decree-Law No. 45 / 2016, today under parliamentary review, should make us reflect on how we legislate and, from then on, as we will legislate in Decree-Law No. 57 / 2016, it also in parliamentary appreciation, because, in this relentless quest to correct injustices and in the exercise of possible, have constantly created new grounds for complaint and perpetuated problems that already existed. Therefore, the CDS expresses its willingness to assess the proposed amendments in the field of expertise and with caution, with the aim of first closing this transitional regime, secondly, finding the reasonable answers that are still missing and, thirdly, complying with the provisions of the State Budget Act that you, PS, PCP and Block, have approved in this Chamber. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u37	Mr Porfirio Silva, from the PS, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u38	Mr President, Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education, Secretary of State for Science, Technology and Higher Education, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The review of the Statute of the Master's Course of Polytechnic Higher Education in 2009 when introducing the doctorate, or the title of specialist, as a requirement for career entry, determined a transitional period during which teachers should acquire these qualifications. Upon arrival in 2016, after several legislative experiences, it was found that about 20 % of the potentials covered had not obtained the qualifications for entry into the career. This situation is not, in fact, beyond the right-wing government, which has substantially worsened the conditions for polytechnic teachers to do the doctorates, having discontinued the Protec (Protec Programme to support the advanced training of polytechnic higher education teachers) which guarantees financial support in the payment of tips, as well as financing the reduction of 50 % of the teaching service. In view of this situation, this House, in particular as a result of a draft PS resolution, approved by the parliamentary majority without the monitoring of the PSD and the CDS, recommended that the Government take action, which the Government did by Decree-Law No 45 / 2016. It is this Decree-Law that is here today in appreciation. It was thanks to this diploma that, in August 2016, the transitional regime was extended until August 2018. There was also the possibility of an additional extension to situations where the doctorate is in advance of preparation, an extension which can still be extended further, by 31 August 2019, to teachers awaiting the provision of evidence. In addition, this means that the transitional period can be extended for more than 10 years after the Statute has been revised. In addition, the diploma now under consideration introduced a significant extension of the scope of the scheme, covering a significant number of teachers, as a rule younger, who were not previously covered by the transitional regime. as a whole, the improvements introduced by Decree-Law No. 45 / 2016 opened the possibility of automatic entry into the career, since they concluded the doctorate, to more than 750 teachers of polytechnic higher education. The positive importance of this cannot be denied. This is what we are dealing with today: from the transitional period to career entry. We are not dealing with the general limitations in terms of career progression here, as we are not dealing with the most general problem of precariousness here. These are important issues not only for these teachers, but for many other workers, issues on which the PS is committed, but which are clearly beyond the scope of this diploma. The PS, being available for improvements that, within the scope of the diploma, have proved necessary, considers that Decree-Law No 45 / 2016 is producing very relevant positive effects and, as such, must remain in force. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u39	For an intervention, Mrs Nilza de Sena, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Teachers: Decree-Law No. 45 / 2016 is an attempt to solve a long process, which has created various entropies and injustices, almost since 2009 with the transitional regime in the Statute of the University Teacher Career and of the Teaching Staff of Polytechnic Higher Education. The assistant professors and guest assistants, the assistants and trainee assistants, within five years, had to deliver their dissertations to obtain a degree of doctor and thus enter the career. Nothing to oppose. On the contrary, already in this Chamber, in February 2016, this matter was consensual in the different benches, which reveals the concerted effort of the PSD and all other parties to solve the problem of these teachers and their announcement regarding the transition to the career of teachers in full time or in exclusive dedication. However, several hundred teachers remain in this situation, who did not finish their doctorates and did not have the support due to their institutions to be able to finish them. It is clear that, in the case of the polytechnics, and contrary to what Mr Porfirio Silva says, the end of the financing of the protec programme was decided by José Socrates and then Secretary of State Manuel Heitor, preventing support to teachers of higher political education and constituting a strong obstacle to the fulfilment of all deadlines. The PSD has contributed constructively from the outset in this area. It was with the PSD, with Law No. 8 / 2010, of May 13, that this period passed from five to six years in the case of assistants and trainee assistants. The PSD presented an initiative on 11 June 2015, also revealing its concern about the topic. The PSD has heard the unions and teachers at different times and situations on this matter and wants to see the situation of these people resolved. We've always been on the side of the solution! It is very important that the Government and its left-wing loved ones also realize that we are talking about teachers who need to see injustice overcome and have a serious debate here. But it is also important to be aware that all the exaggerations in this matter will constitute an injustice for those who have met all the deadlines. Now, the PSD is available to, as a specialist, analyze all proposals and be on the side of the solution, solving precisely this problem of these teachers so that they can finally enter the career and end the transitional regime. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u41	For a second and, necessarily, short intervention, Mr. Minister for Science, Technology and Higher Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u42	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Of course the impact this Decree-Law had and which resulted from a considerable consultation and consensus between institutions, trade unions and detailed discussions with many researchers and teachers. If there is something to clarify, it is only in terms of those who travel from part time to full time and, of course, their possibility to access exclusive dedication. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u43	Mr Ana Virginia, from the CFP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It has been worth bringing these proposals to debate because they have opened doors to end this precarious cycle. It was also worth the struggle of teachers, who never gave up trying to end the injustices they were subjected to over time. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u45	For an intervention, Mr Luís Monteiro, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Some final notes before the committee discussion. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, the freedom of the polytechnics to contract the profiles they understand well is safeguarded.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u48	What we cannot admit is that those teachers, with annual contracts, who were chosen for years by these same polytechnics do not have the profiles that these polytechnics need. If they do not, why did they continue to hire them annually? That's the discussion. The problem of precariousness is precisely this: the polytechnics have continued to contract without ever entering these teachers into the career. And this is a fundamental tool for ensuring stability. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u49	Mr Porfirio Silva, it is important to open both the Socialist Party and the other parties to discuss this matter in committee, and this schedule of the Block opens the doors—and still well! — in order for this to happen. In fact, we can just start by correcting some matters that are in the diploma and that are against the State Budget itself of the Socialist Party Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u50	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u51	That would be the basis for us to begin to correct, precisely, a law decree that is good, that responds to problems of precariousness, but that it can certainly respond to many other teachers who, even today, have come to the Assembly of the Republic with the hope of seeing their case solved. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u52	Mrs. Members, finished the second item on the agenda, with the appreciation of Decree-Law No 45 / 2016 [ Parliamentary assessments n. 22 / XIII ( 2. a ) ( BE) and 24 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PCP ), we move to the third point, which, as you know, integrates multiple initiatives — the CDS-PP, the Left Block, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN, on the theme of disability and the problem of disabled people. Let us then, in general, appreciate the projects of lein.o 453 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amends the Civil Code by strengthening the legal protection of prohibited or disabled heirs ( CDS-PP ), 454 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Sets out the conditions for the organisation, operation and installation of the occupational activity centre ( CAD ) ( CDS-PP ), 455 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The first amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code, to the fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April 2009 and to the third amendment to Decree-Law No 89 / 2009, increases the period of parental leave in the case of birth of children with disabilities or rare illness in 60 days and creates the parental leave for premature birth, associated with disability or rare disease, with more than six weeks before the presumed date of birth ( CDS-PP ) and 456 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates the exceptional scheme for indexing the social benefits of the disabled in the Armed Forces ( CDS-PP ) together with draft resolutions No 729 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, with the institutions of the European Union, not discriminate against the remuneration of persons with disabilities in projects financed by Community funds ( CDS-PP ), No 730 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government extend the National Early Childhood Intervention System ( SNIPI) for children up to 10 years or until the end of 1. the basic education cycle and flexibility and agile its structure ( CDS-PP ), No 731 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, with a view to operationalizing and implementing the Centre for Care, Monitoring and Social Rehabilitation for Persons with Disabilities and Disabilities, shall establish and determine in contracts to be concluded with the institutions a user/month value that enables the establishment of a link between the services provided, the levels of care and the follow-up carried out ( CDS-PP ), No 732 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create the guarantee plan for disabled children and young people ( CDS-PP ), No 733 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create a single document demonstrating the degree of disability and disability for all circumstances of the life of the disabled person accepted in all public services ( CDS-PP ), No 734 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure access to vocational training adapted to persons with disabilities and disabilities ( PCDI ), in particular to dual-certification ( level 2 ) ( vocational certification and academic equivalence to 9. the year ), in the region of Grande Lisboa ( CDS-PP ), No 735 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government regulate the terms and conditions for the access and exercise of the profession of personal assistant ( CDS-PP ), No 746 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote a true inclusive school, in compliance with Recommendation No 1 / 2014 of the CNE, and with the recommendations of the special education working group, established by Office No 706 - C / 2014 ( CDS-PP ), No 747 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the study of alternative methods for the exercise of voting rights by disabled citizens ( CDS-PP ), No 748 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop support for entrepreneurship and self-employment for people with disabilities ( CDS-PP ), No 749 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government encourage the establishment of the Portuguese self-representative platform for persons with disabilities until the end of 2. the term of this year ( CDS-PP ), No 750 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government that the value for the accumulation of disability benefit with work income is not less than the sum of the reference value of the social benefit for inclusion with the guaranteed minimum monthly remuneration ( CDS-PP ), paragraph 751 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government reformulate support for firms employing persons with disabilities ( CDS-PP ), paragraph 752 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government value the activity of assistive dogs training entities, in particular by defining a stable and continuous financial support framework ( CDS-PP ) and No 753/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop a national awareness campaign for compliance with the accessibility law ( CDS-PP ), with draft Regiment No 1 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Second amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2007, in order to include in the public discussion obligation the disability legislation ( CDS-PP ), in general with the projects of lein 461 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Extends parental protection to parents with children with disabilities or rare disease ( BE) and 462 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates a specific prematurity or hospital stay permit for newborns ( PCP ) and also with draft resolutions No 502 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government that persons with disabilities with a disability rate of 60 % or more be included in the protocol concluded between the INR and the CP in order to access the 25 % discount on tariffs ( BE ), paragraph 503 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by eliminating the sustainability factor applicable to disability pensions converted into old-age pensions ( BE ), No 506 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that light passenger or mixed motor vehicles for the use of persons with disabilities be integrated into Class 1 for the purposes of tolls ( BE ), No 721 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Classification of mobility scooters to allow them access to passenger transport ( The Greens ), No 754 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a Portuguese Gestive Interpreter Exchange in order to ensure the accessibility of public services ( PAN ), No 755 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, in the context of the revision of Decree-Law No 3 / 2008 of 7 January, promote inclusive school in a comprehensive manner ( BE ), No 758 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Extension of the service of the balconies of inclusion and recognition of all evidence of disability and disability, improving the conditions of access to them ( PCP ), paragraph 759 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Value of vocational training for persons with disabilities ( CFP ) and No 760 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strengthening the responses of the National Early Intervention System ( CFP ). To present the legislative initiatives of the CDS-PP, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS presents today an extended set of proposals aimed at improving the lives of Portuguese disabled people. Bringing the lives of these Portuguese people, the dramas with which their families are discussed, the difficulties facing the institutions that support them is to ensure that we will always be talking about the greatest political current. A society is only fair and supportive if it looks at disabled citizens with attention and seeks to develop comprehensive and integrated policies that correspond to their citizenship rights. The proposals presented by the CDS this week result in involvement with disabled citizens and their families and with various institutions supporting them on a daily basis. We know that the challenges we face and the hope they raise are always beyond our ability to answer, but it is our duty to take steps in the right direction, promoting the improvement of their living conditions. in some cases, we propose measures that solve concrete problems, with reachable solutions, without any significant cost increase. This is the case of the proposal that promotes the adoption of a single disability proof document, extending the use of the multi-use disability medical certificate. This is also the case with the proposal for the extension of the National Early Childhood Intervention System ( SNIPI ). As the National Early Intervention System in Children, created in 2009, consists of a set of support measures, in an interdisciplinary way in the field of education, health and social action. It is an integrated model that has shown positive results, in some cases, both in the early signage and in the progress of the development of children. It is precisely because it is a contribution in the development of children which, in our view and in the understanding of various experts, justifies their age extension. But the CDS proposals also seek to meet one of the greatest challenges facing disabled citizens, i.e. to promote their autonomy and professional training. We understand that it must be possible to accumulate social pension and professional remuneration up to a reference value and, in this context, we welcome the Government's proposal as a working document that goes in the right direction but that it is possible and desirable to go further, especially for people whose degree of disability is set below 80 %. In our view, the criterion for limiting the accumulation of social benefits with the employment income set very close to the national minimum wage should be revised because, if not, the employability of the person who loses the provision of disability will continue to be strongly discouraged. As regards the promotion of self-employment, the profession of personal assistants must be regulated, which is undoubtedly an important element that empowers independent life and currently has no specific framework. In addition, our proposals also focus on the family, which is the first to be called upon to intervene and is the most important support of the disabled. That is why it is important that an increase in parental leave should be recognised in situations of premature birth, rare disease or disability. One of the greatest dramas experienced by the parents of disabled citizens is the future and the living conditions after the parents have disappeared, their concern about the situation in which they will leave their children. They therefore need measures to encourage planning for the future. It is in this sense that we suggest the establishment of a guarantee plan, allowing the establishment of a savings fund by parents, family members or other citizens to meet the needs of the disabled person's future, without such donations being taxed or, in any way, penalized, and it is also in this context that we propose again strengthening the protection of banned or disabled heirs. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CDS presents here today an extended set of proposals that are transversal to many sectors and include education, citizenship and the right to vote, mobility, health, social security, without forgetting the particular debt that, as Portuguese, we have faced the disabled of the Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u54	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u55	As we approach the institutions, families and citizens, we are urgently questioned about their demands and we are faced with indignation at the inability of politicians to understand themselves in matters that involve the most vulnerable among us. for our part, we present these proposals with the same openness and humility with which we receive the proposals from the other benches of this House. our responsibility and our ability to look beyond party or ideological membership depends on the results of what we have the courage to approve. We will therefore continue to make politics for the positive, not considering us exempt from presenting constructive proposals for the benefit of Portuguese and Portuguese. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u56	Mrs. Members, to inform the House that, in respect of the assessment of Decree-Law No 45 / 2016 of 17 August, it approves a set of complementary rules of the process of transition of polytechnic higher education teachers, regulated by Decree-Law No 207 / 2009 of 31 August, as amended by Law No 7 / 2010 of 13 May [ Parliamentary assessments n. 22 / XIII ( 2. a ) ( BE) and 24 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PCP ), have entered in good time, i.e. until the end of the debate, proposals for amendments to that Decree-Law, submitted by the PCP, the Socialist Party and the Left Block, which fall to 8. Before using the floor, for an intervention, Mr. Jorge Falcato Simões, of the Left Block, I will give the floor to Mrs. Sandra Pereira, who had written a question to Mr. Filipe Anacoreta Correia. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u57	Mr President, first of all, I would like to welcome all the parties that have presented legislative initiatives and which have therefore promoted us to be here again today to discuss this issue, which is always current and relevant. The CDS presents us with numerous legislative initiatives. I will not discuss all of them, of course, but with regard to the initiative which recommends to the Government that the value for the accumulation of social benefit due to work income is not less than the sum of the reference value of the social benefit of inclusion with the minimum remuneration, which is draft resolution No 750 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ), I would like to clarify if there is indeed no such project and if it is not approved, a real accumulation of social benefits of inclusion with labour income, taking into account the existing limit, as the Government wants us to believe. The Government wants us to believe that this accumulation is real and we believe that this draft resolution has not been approved, that accumulation is actually compromised. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u58	To reply, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u59	Mr President, Mrs Sandra Pereira, I thank you for your question. in fact, one of the problems that often people living in this reality — people with disabilities, their families and institutions — transmit to us is that the current regime discourages the hiring and professionalization of people in this situation, as soon as people receive some salary allowance they lose the right to provide for disability. The Government is presenting a proposal which we believe is in the right direction, insofar as in the case of disability above 80 % of this benefit is attributed universally and without any reference to employment income. However, by establishing that, in the second degree, that is, the deficiency between 60 % and 80 %, this benefit already depends on a reference value, and having been set a reference value very close to the minimum wage, in fact, in these situations what the honourable Member mentioned here means that these people are exactly under the circumstances of being discouraged from taking a wage. And because we understand that this is and that this is a matter that goes far beyond the interest or the bias of each one of us, our expectation is precisely that our draft resolution will be accepted and can be consensual, since it is reasonable, it is sensible and, in our view, goes to meet what we consider to have conditions to be approved in this House. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u60	Mr Jorge Falcato Simões has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We welcome this initiative of the CDS, which allows us once again to bring to this House the needs and concerns of people with disabilities and their families, but we cannot fail to reflect here the perplexity that many of these people have communicated to us and that we share. We miss the interest of the CDS in these matters, when we remind ourselves that one of the first things the PSD/CDS government was to cut 3 million euros in the budget for the allocation of support products to people with disabilities. I remember, because I was with a group of men and women with disabilities who had to spend a very cold night in front of Parliament until the government was committed to putting that money back. After that, he did not keep his word, but anyone who remembers from the previous government will not be surprised at that. [[Greetings from BE and P.S. Member of Ascension Simões.]] This is a party that now says that the government has to listen to the organizations of people with disabilities, but has extinguished the National Council for the Rehabilitation and Integration of Persons with Disabilities, an advisory body where these organizations were represented. This party is now very concerned and wants to carry out a awareness campaign to comply with technical accessibility standards, but it was the responsibility of the Government of the CDS and the PSD that Decree-Law No 53/2014, which exempted and continues to exempt from compliance with these same standards all the rehabilitation operations of buildings that are intended for housing use and that are 30 years old or older or are located in areas of urban rehabilitation. in the opposition they worry, in the government allowed the exclusion of people with disabilities. If this interest were a little older, we would have long advanced for the realization of an independent life policy in Portugal, as they would have implemented the pilot project of personal assistance, envisaged in the National Strategy for Deficiency 2011 - 2013, which never came out of the role. In 2014, then Minister Mota Soares, if he was concerned about the situation of people with disabilities, could have required his Secretary of State Augustine Branquinho to comply with the promise formally made to the Movement ( d) Indignant Effectives, right here in this Chamber, to initiate the drafting of the legislation on independent life in the first quarter of 2014. As you know, this legislation does not exist, which is natural, because it never began to be drafted. In November 2012, they established a committee that would have to propose a new national disability strategy by October 2013 for the period 2014 - 2020, which to date has not seen the light of the day. A strategy that was and continues to be necessary to stop sailing in sight, of avulsive measure to avulsive extent, such as those presented today, some very interesting, others or so, but all avulsive. Of course, some of these proposals — and I am not referring only to those of the Left Block — will improve the lives of people with disabilities. It is for this purpose that we propose the elimination of the application of the sustainability factor when converting disability pensions into old age pensions, because it is not fair to lower income to these people because they have reached the age limit of the disability pension. And because families with children with disabilities need time to assist them, we propose to increase the time of parental leave, the period of reduction of working hours and the leave to care for children with disabilities or chronic illness. It is to improve the quality of life of persons with disabilities that we propose that vehicles classified as Class 2 intended for use by persons with disabilities be considered as Class 1 for the purpose of paying tolls. People who are obliged to have cars with these characteristics cannot continue to be limited in their mobility and to pay more than 75% of the value of tolls they would pay if they had an opportunity to use another type of car. It is in order to improve the quality of life of these people who propose that the 25% discount on CP tariffs be returned to which people with disabilities between 60 % and 79 % of disability are no longer eligible in the current government. Finally, it is in this sense that we present a set of recommendations on the aspects that we consider most important and urgent in the revision of Decree-Law No 3 / 2008 to have a truly inclusive school. Yes, it is true that these and other proposals will improve the lives of people with disabilities, but we must go further and deeper. The Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, in April 2016, has already identified the problem and reported the lack of implementation of the National Disability Strategy, which did not have sufficient funding to be implemented, nor the participation of organizations of persons with disabilities in its preparation, monitoring and evaluation. In the words of the Committee, which in the same document recommended to the Portuguese State a new strategy for the implementation of the Convention, in which the preparation, monitoring and evaluation of organisations of persons with disabilities participate, with allocation of funds and a timetable for implementation defined, having established a one-year deadline for the Government to present that strategy. This is the great debate that we need to start here in the government and in the country with the representative associations of people with disabilities, but also creating the conditions for people with disabilities themselves and their families to express their views and ensure that this opinion is effectively considered. The objectives to be achieved are already defined and have already been assumed by this House, when it adopted the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, in 2009. After eight years, it is more than time to comply with what has been approved here. We must build an alternative to institutionalizing, welfare and charitable policies, which maintain a situation of poverty, exclusion and dependence on most people with disabilities. Build a strategy that guarantees people's right to inclusive vocational education and training, employment, housing and use of cities. A human rights-based strategy is urgent. Defining actions, deadlines for realising them and money for executing them is indispensable. This is a claim from the community of people with disabilities, who are full of promises and who demand compliance with the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, a commitment we would like to see this Parliament take. In fact, it is a compromise which Parliament is obliged to make. It's time to meet. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u62	Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We recognize the importance of the topic under discussion today and, recognizing this same importance, we cannot fail to point out that we believe that the same was not treated with the seriousness due on the part of the CDS. Starting with a long-announced schedule, but of which the initiatives under discussion were unknown, and ending with the delivery of a series of initiatives, whose entry into the limit of the date makes it difficult to think more deeply about the proposed measures. But welcome the CDS to the concerns on this matter, which he did not have when he was in government with the PSD. Unlike what you say in the preamble to your diploma, you have abandoned disabled people, buried your concerns somewhere between social benefits cuts, cuts in public school, closure of public services, increase in unemployment and poverty. They have had a devastating action that has particularly affected more vulnerable social groups, as is the case with people with disabilities, and neither your words nor the initiatives brought here can erase it, because the consequences still feel today. In addition to the profound degradation of living conditions that you imposed on the Portuguese people during the four years they were in the government with the PSD, you have not achieved a single line of what you are proposing here today. It is appropriate to ask: where was the concern of the CDS at that time? Where was the purpose of the CDS, during all the time it was in the government, with the direct protection of this folder? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say a few words about the initiatives we are discussing. We note the change in the CDS regarding the discussion on prematurity and maternity and paternity conditions, recalling here that, when the CFP has repeatedly presented the initiative to legislate in this regard, the CDS, during the four years in which it was in government, has always voted against. But welcome, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to this debate! On the proposal for accessibility, we remember that this is a matter which, on the proposal of the CFP, is in the state budget standard, a concern that we have put at various times, understanding that it is important to break down the barriers that persist. As for the proposal for public discussion that the CDS here brings to legislative initiatives on disability, it was important to know, about the bills that the CDS presents, which were the ones that had public discussion. It is that neither the bill which provides for mandatory public discussion by amending the Labour Code was the subject of the same public discussion. With regard to the CAO ( Centres for Occupational Activities ), we understand that this is a discussion that must be held in a broad and in-depth way, not forgetting, of course, the need for these young people to follow up and the need to safeguard their future. with regard to the initiative presented by the NAP, we believe that it would be useful to join other initiatives on Portuguese gestual language, already under consideration in 8. the Commission, and in which there is also a proposal from the CFP that goes exactly that way. As for initiatives on special education, it is important to say and remember that the guarantee of an inclusive public school, which ensures and guarantees to all children and young people, irrespective of their characteristics, origins and conditions, who can learn together, in the public school of their communities, is inseparable from a strengthening of human, technical and pedagogical means that responds to the educational needs of all and of each one, as the CFP has pointed out several times. On this subject, and for all levels of education, beginning up to the early days, the CFP already has a proposal delivered in this House, which responds to a set of existing problems and concerns and which ensures an integrated and continuous response to children and young people with special needs and with disabilities. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CFP felt it was important to contribute to this debate today. We therefore present legislative and parliamentary initiatives. We defend that measures should be taken to recognise the documents that already exist that prove disability and disability are valid for attendance in the inclusion counters, as well as for access to the other public services and the support and benefits provided for disabled people. We also understand that, with regard to the multi-use attestation, it is important to take measures to ensure that they are free of charge. We defend the professional valorization of people with disabilities, and we must evaluate the training programmes for this social group and assess the extent to which they correspond, and correspond, to the needs of these people and to what extent they contribute to their best integration into the world of work. We also understand that measures must be taken to ensure that vocational training for people with disabilities corresponds to the acquisition of knowledge, skills and skills for inclusion in active life. We defend the strengthening of local intervention teams within the early intervention system and represent our proposal for the creation of a specific prematurity and hospital leave of the newborn, in addition to maternity and paternity leave, a proposal to strengthen maternity and paternity rights but, above all, to defend the best interests of the child. This is the contribution we have left here, this is the intervention which the CFP makes today, as it has always done, because we are in this struggle every day. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u64	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens begin by registering the importance of this debate and bring to discussion a legislative initiative on mobility scooters. It is recalled that mobility scooters are a equipment used by people with disabilities or with reduced mobility, since they are very difficult, or even impossible, to make trips on foot. First of all, it should be noted that, often, the mobility scooter itself is prescribed by the doctor, after the follow-up of a multidisciplinary team, which determines the need of the user to use this equipment. We know that more and more citizens have to use these equipment, but they also need to travel through public transport, and they need to use the mobility scooter when they leave public transport to continue their journey. There have been a number of cases where transport companies refuse to transport users who travel on mobility scooters, which, in fact, constitutes a discriminatory practice and in clear comparison with the law. However, these discriminatory practices happen because mobility scooters are not yet classified in order to allow them access to passenger transport, a situation that needs to be resolved in order to ensure the full right to mobility of disabled citizens or with mobility problems. It is recalled that accessibility and mobility are currently understood as human rights matters, including the right to equal opportunities, inclusion, non-discrimination and participation in all aspects of society. The promotion and guarantee of these principles constitute an essential condition for the full exercise of citizenship rights enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. The State should thus ensure and ensure the rights of persons with special needs, where persons with disabilities or with reduced or conditional mobility are included. Finally, it should be noted that passenger transport undertakings should promote the inclusion of persons with disabilities or with reduced mobility and that the Government should contribute to removing obstacles related to the mobility of these citizens. It therefore seems to us that the problems related to the classification of mobility scooters are urgently solved. The Greens therefore present the discussion on this legislative initiative for the Government not only to classify mobility scooters, according to their characteristics and dimensions, in order to allow them access to various modes of passenger transport, but also to develop efforts to eliminate barriers to access to various modes of passenger transport, through works at the stations, the adaptation of transport and the attention to have to take in the acquisition of new fleets, in order to allow the access of mobility scooters, with a view to raising the awareness of transport companies to this reality, since these companies should also promote the inclusion of all users. We now hope that the other parliamentary committees will follow the Greens on this legislative initiative, which aims to strengthen the right to mobility of citizens with disabilities or conditional mobility. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u66	Mr André Silva has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Do you know how a deaf citizen communicates in a hospital with the doctor to pass on his feelings? It may seem simple, but it is not. Either you are accompanied by a friend or family or you pay your purse to an interpreter; otherwise you do not communicate. Mrs. Gentlemen, do you think this is bad? Imagine, then, a scenario of medical urgency, in which this citizen does not have exactly time to prepare to go to the hospital. I remember that access to health is a fundamental right for all citizens. If accessibility means the possibility of accessing anything, then we will only be a truly accessible and inclusive country on the day when all people can enter a public service and be cared for and understood with all the normality with which each one of you is. Ladies and gentlemen, you do. Law No 46 / 2006 of 28 August prohibits and imposes discrimination on grounds of disability. But there is discrimination as long as there are citizens living outside the newspaper. Worse, this discrimination is part of the State itself, because it is not guaranteeing conditions of equality for all, as its duty is. The legislation in this area is 2004 and 2006, however, the barriers to communication remain. After more than 10 years, a deaf person continues to have no accessibility in hospitals, health centers, cabin services, municipal assemblies, libraries, higher education, and so on. In short, have steps been taken to improve the living conditions of disabled citizens? Yes, they do. Are they enough to ensure an independent life? No way. For this reason, the NAP considers it essential to take more of this step, among the many that still have to be done, with the creation of Portuguese gestal language interpreters scholarships. The barriers are not only architectural, they are also social, cultural and political. As long as there is discrimination, we are compacting with the system of first and second-line citizens, which is unacceptable! Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, all must have access to different opportunities, be it culture, spaces, communications, services, economics or political participation, on an equal footing, and as long as that does not happen, we cannot say that we live in an equal and just society. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u68	Mrs Carla Tavares has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Because we remember, I remember that it was in this House of Democracy that, eight years ago, the ratification of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of the United Nations was unanimously approved, which aims to launch a new paradigm for people with regard to disability. The Socialist Party has always been at the forefront of concern about the living conditions of citizens with disabilities or disabilities and their families. It was always during the governments of the Socialist Party that the greatest progress was made in this area. in the State budget for 2017, the government defined intervention in the area of inclusion of persons with disabilities or disabilities as a priority. The year 2017 will certainly be marked in the future as a milestone in how the State relates to these citizens. Two innovative measures were recently presented by the Government in the area of inclusion of people with disabilities: the model of support for independent life and the unique social benefit for inclusion, both based on pilot projects that have as their basis respect for the dignity, autonomy and independence of the disabled person. Also because we have memory, we remember that the CDS, after having already been known as the farm party, the reformers and having also tried to be the party of birth, comes to surprise us now—yes, because the CDS can still surprise us—trying again to make its flag the disabled people. This as if it had not been in the government between 2011 and 2015, having done nothing of what is now proposed here, presenting to this plenary, for discussion, nothing more than 20 diplomas between draft resolutions and draft laws, seem to ignore—but we know that the CDS does not ignore—all the work that, in a serious, deep and consistent manner, is being carried out by the current government as regards the protection of people with disabilities and their families. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The CDS also knows, because it could not ignore it, that the Government has recently created at least two working groups that aim to assess the current regimes for these people. And now, once again, in a coup of political opportunism, I want to make the Portuguese people believe that they have come forward and that they care a lot about these people, the same people whom, over the four years in which they have been ruling, little or little wanted to know. Once again, it comes in an atomic and fragmented way, to present a set of initiatives without underlying them a basic principle or a driving thread, lacking many of them a thorough and necessary prior work, to carry out in close cooperation with organisations working in the area of disability. In addition, many of the measures now proposed or merely recommended are already being implemented by the Government or with an expected response. This is the case with the creation of a single document demonstrating the degree of disability or disability and the development, within SIMPLEX, of the process of dematerialization and standardization of the emission and transmission of multi-use attestations data. It is also the case of the non-discrimination of the remuneration of persons with disabilities in projects financed by Community funds to be considered under the New Social Benefit for Inclusion and the existence, in the current tax legislation, of several mechanisms that allow to mitigate taxation in case of physically relevant disability, having been enshrined in the 2016 State Budget an increase in the deduction to collection, within IRS, for each dependent with disabilities. It is also the case of the amendment to the Electoral Law, which is being promoted by the Government and which aims to extend the participation of citizens in the electoral acts or the possibility, provided for in the law, to suspend the initial parental leave during the period of hospitalization, either of the parent, or of the child, in the period of delivery, provided that the parent's request and the length of stay of admission. But the CDS' greatest defeat arises in the draft resolution recommending the Government to ensure access to vocational training adapted to people with disabilities and disabilities in the region of Great Lisbon, manifestly in an attempt to whiten a problem by itself, while it was the government, by failing to plan, to ensure the continuity of support, because the allocation for Portugal 2020 for the Lisbon region has become manifestly insufficient. This is a situation that the current government is already solving and has been following very closely, making every effort necessary to bring about the constraints created. I cannot finish without talking about the launch of the Balconies of Inclusion, having overcome one of the major obstacles of disabled citizens — contact with the Public Administration services — and ensuring specialized assistance that improves the quality of service and solves problems for disabled citizens and their families. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Politics makes sense only if it is to improve people's lives, and the Socialist Party is building a more just and democratic Portugal. This year and half of government has already shown that it is possible to make other choices, define other priorities, make different. The former government has chosen to impoverish the country, while this government has shown that it is possible to govern with balance, respecting our commitments without jeopardizing the dignity and well-being of people. And the fact that this government has defined disabled people and their families as one of their priorities is a good example of these choices, that option to defend the dignity of people who, due to their weakness, need greater intervention. Could the CDS and the previous Government have developed, implemented, implemented and complied with all the measures that you have tabled here today? They could, but it wouldn't be the same. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u70	Also for an intervention, Mrs Sandra Pereira, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Eight years have passed since the ratification of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities by the Portuguese State. The Convention imposes on us the collective duty to ensure that people with disabilities or inability to fully enjoy all human rights and fundamental freedoms, in exactly the same way as other citizens. As the available scientific studies point to us, people with disabilities or disabilities are located in the most excluded social groups and more prone to the risk of poverty. According to European Union estimates, there is a higher prevalence of unemployment in people with disabilities, two or three times higher than in other citizens. For the PSD Parliamentary Group, the full inclusion of people with disabilities is a programmatic commitment that should unite us and therefore constitutes a matter which we regard as a reserve of unity, which reserves that which is above political combat. We must therefore mobilize society and all its agents to an inclusive attitude. We must draw up comprehensive and concerted public policies aimed at combating discrimination and promoting genuine equality of opportunity. The Convention on Persons with Disabilities establishes the need to promote employment and employability as instruments promoting the inclusion of persons with disabilities or disabilities. It also reiterates that access to the labour market, professional integration, lifelong learning and accessibility to physical space are fundamental principles of public inclusion policies. This means that the Portuguese State has committed itself to adopting and promoting policies for integration into society and combating discrimination; policies for inclusion and job qualification, recognizing the right to work of persons with disabilities, ensuring their training and adaptation to the job and encouraging their employment in public administration and private enterprises; policies for the full recognition of citizenship rights by people with disabilities who guarantee their effective participation in the various spheres of social life; and policies for accessibility, eliminating physical barriers, but also communication and technological barriers, in order to expand the use of Braille and gestal language, as well as the provision of content in the media, including on the Internet, in formats accessible to people with disabilities. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Eight years have passed on the adoption of this structural document for inclusion policies, but we believe that there is still much to be done. The road is long, it's still too long, but that's why we won't let it go. Today we are debating a number of legislative initiatives — in total, 31 — which, of course, is an important contribution to the continued deepening of these issues and also calls on us to take stock. I must tell you, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that this flag is not of the CDS, it is not of the Socialist Party, it is not of the Left Block, it is not of the left or right. It's none of us and it's all of us!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u72	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u73	Ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not enough to have a modernised legislative framework and in line with guidelines from international documents. It's not enough. This framework needs to be applied. The law on accessibility, which has recently been perfect for 10 years, set exactly that deadline — 10 years — to adapt buildings to people with disabilities. 10 years ago, it happens that the degree of compliance with that law is small. He fell far short of what was desirable and, worse, he was even worse than what was possible. The establishment of quotas for the hiring of disabled workers in the Public Administration is legislated, regulated, but not applied. Decree-Law No 29/2001 of 3 February 2001 provides a 5 % quota for workers with disabilities in recruitment in the Public Administration and there is not even a mechanism for monitoring compliance with this measure. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the State should set an example and we should make every effort to make this measure effective, especially because it is the State that imposes this obligation on the private as well. The absence of regulation of Decree-Law No 38 / 2004 of 18 August as set out in Article 28. it establishes exactly a 2 % share of disabled workers in private companies, has constantly been compromising their effective applicability and, consequently, the inclusion of work and collective responsibility. These are just a few examples that we have not done everything yet and that not all we have done is done well. The Social Democratic Party acknowledges that there have been recent contributions, such as the Social Inclusion Benefit, which we have already said deserves our sympathy, but will only be in full force in 2019, from two years ago. The model of independent life is undoubtedly an advance, but as presented to us, it has much less independence than it would be desirable and much more caregiver than we all would like. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: in recent years, the country has been under financial assistance, subject to the fulfilment of a Memorandum which has caused enormous budgetary difficulties, as everyone knows. Still, measures were taken to promote the inclusion of people with disabilities. in the labour market, active employment measures were launched, including the increase of vocational training to more than 5000 people with disabilities and the increase of vocational rehabilitation to more than 18 000 people, which constitutes a financial boost in the order of 50 % compared to the situation in 2011. in the context of financial support for the disabled, there was an increase of more than EUR 3, EUR 5 million in their respective financial allocations. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: We will continue to work together for this larger design, which is the inclusion of people with disabilities. The Social Democratic Party is a party of humanist and personalist genesis that does not relinquish its responsibilities, that does not resign and that always mobilizes against inequalities and discrimination. It will always and continuously be committed to the construction of a freer, fairer, more inclusive society for all and, above all, a society that values diversity and makes it a living force. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u74	For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Pontedeira of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome once again, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, the parliamentary groups for the legislative initiatives presented. The importance of inclusive school for all is undeniable, as regards some of these initiatives. But one question arises: where was the CDS for four years of PSD / CDS governance, period when the inclusive school suffered, as we know, a backwardness? Thousands of students with special educational needs and their families have been forgotten, abandoned. The CDS cannot merely pretend that it has not been in the Government for more than four years and today it wants to replace itself with initiatives that it recommends to do what is being done. The Government of the Socialist Party is developing concrete measures, like all of you. Members know, either to ensure compliance with the law, so as to comply with the principles of inclusive education, either to comply with the Government's programme presented and referred to in this Assembly of the Republic, measures to be developed within the time limit of the legislature, as this is the Government's commitment to the country. The review of Decree-Law No 3/2008 is under way. There has been constant scrutiny on this subject by both the Government and Parliament. A public discussion on legislative proposals will, as we know, be held. There is a work articulated between different ministries and many other measures have already been taken, all through the pursuit of public educational policies, promoters of greater inclusion. Yes, the Government is fulfilling its Programme and the recommendations presented today are already, as has been said in the vast majority, in implementation, discussion and implementation. For the Government of the Socialist Party, education is assumed as a strategic axis of the country's development and is a primary factor of social justice. We know we still have a way to go. in this way we will halt the fight for inclusive school, which requires the mobilization of all, from left to right. The Portuguese demand that this fight be serious and cause consensus, which, despite some legislative compulsivity, the Socialist Party believes that, on behalf of the entire educational community of the inclusive school, will take place. We are, of course, available to enable the initiatives that effectively compete for the enhancement of inclusive public school and not others and are thus committed to the affirmation of inclusive education for the construction of an inclusive society, which respects human dignity and is a promoter of citizenship and participation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u76	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would just like to reinforce that the proposals which the CFP brings here are intended to contribute to this discussion and to improve the living conditions of people with disabilities. We have done this today, we have done it in the past and, of course, we will continue to do it. We understand that it is important to effect in everyday life and in the concrete life of disabled people their right to a dignified, autonomous and independent life. The CFP will be here to make that way with your proposals. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u78	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, from the CDS-PP, now speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in particular Mrs and Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party : Have you asked here the question « where was the CDS...? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Now, the question we all have to ask today in plenary is: where is the government?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u80	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u81	Where is the government, ladies and gentlemen? There is probably no memory that there has been such a relevant package of proposals in this area that has been discussed and that the government has not been present. That is the question that the Socialist Party has to answer. That is the question that has no answer. The Government has 10 minutes to speak in this debate, but unfortunately it does not respond. Mrs Sandra Pontedeira, I believe that the Portuguese are expecting another kind of approach from us in these debates, and I have no difficulty in answering your questions. It is not true that the former Government has done nothing, and if the honourable Member has some knowledge of the area, for example, it will know that it has increased the number of vacancies for people with disabilities in these institutions by 5600; it will know, for example, that the participation of the State, with European funds, has increased from 75 % to 100 %; it will know that the budgetary values have increased from EUR 5 million to EUR 14 million. Ladies and gentlemen, you have to know this. But what the Portuguese expect of us today is that we go beyond this approach in which the government wants to close, which, instead of welcoming as positive and constructive the proposals that are brought by the CDS and also by other benches, looks at them with suspicion and shows very little openness to work with others. in the background, what shows is crispaction, revealing surprise by the parties to play their role, which is to present proposals. The government should be happy about that! for our part, we are pleased with our proposals and, as far as they say, the truth is that if they had not been these proposals, this work that we have done today would not have put on the agenda this matter, which is a matter of concern to the country. It doesn't matter to the CDS or this or that party, it matters to the Portuguese, families and people with disabilities. These are the ones we have to answer and it is in front of those that we have to overcome purely biased and ideological approaches that close and do not open up solutions for the country. for our part, Mr President — and I shall finish — we are vehement in criticism and supervision of the government, but we are also constructive in presenting solutions, solutions that represent value, improvements to the lives of Portuguese. Today we have done this here, with the issue of disability, showing that it is possible to be in politics for the good. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u82	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u83	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u84	Mr President, it is to make an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u85	Please, Your Honor. Is it about the progress of the work?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u86	No, Mr President, it is to ask that the Government's agenda be distributed today, particularly in the area of the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, which realizes that its members of the Government are today in Coimbra to discuss precisely issues related to disability.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u87	Madam Member, if you would like some document to be distributed to the benches, please deliver it to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u88	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u89	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u90	It is for the same purpose, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u91	Is it to request the distribution of the agenda of the Council of Ministers?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u92	No, no, Mr President, it is for a regimental clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u93	It's for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u94	I believe that Mr President, even for his experience as a former minister, or as a parliamentary leader, may clarify the honourable Member who has just spoken, as well as all the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. I think it's important to work.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u95	Our perplexity, sir, is that we did not reach the intention of your request. [[Laughing.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u96	If Mr. President gives me the floor, you may understand better!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u97	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u98	Mr President, in view of the progress of the work, Mr President, using his vast experience as an ex-Minister, I believe that with responsibilities in Parliamentary affairs, he may be able to clarify to the honourable Member that when there is a debate in the Assembly of the Republic the Government can represent itself and, even at the Conference of Leaders, it may not be present on that day but that it may be in another, provided that that is its will. And Mr President, as current Vice-President and participant in the Conference of Leaders, can also confirm that none of this has been said or raised by the current Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs. This request takes into account the good progress of the work and for those who are watching and listening to us to realize that the government's not here today is not a matter of agenda, but a matter of willlessness. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u99	As everyone understood, the clarifications that Mr Nuno Magalhães was seeking were given on his own. Mrs. Members, let us move on to the next item on the agenda, which is from the joint assessment, in general, of the projects of lein. 458 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Gives the nature of the executive title to the final decisions of the Act ( Labour Conditions Authority ) and amends the procedural arrangements applicable to labour and social security counter-ordinations by amending the second amendment to Law No 107 / 2009 of 14 September ( CFP ) and 105 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — It deepens the legal regime of the special action for the recognition of the existence of a contract of work established by Law No 63 / 2013 of 27 August and extends the procedural mechanisms to combat false green receipts and all forms of undeclared work, including false stages and false voluntary (BE). To present the PCP's diploma, Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This PCP bill is part of a fight that we must all block the false green receipts, i.e. situations that effectively configure, and in reality, subordinate work, in which workers have a contract of work that they fulfil, work subordinated to the direction of an employer, but, however, this situation appears illegally hidden under a false service provision. in this situation, workers have no protection, operating as if they were entrepreneurs, assuming themselves all the charges of their social security, exempting the patronage of this contribution. It is therefore manifestly illegal and must be intransigently combated. What is happening is that there is a great ineffectiveness in combating these situations of illegality and it is the Act itself (Working Conditions Authority) in its reports, which recognises it, when in the 2015 report it states that a total of 478 contracts of hidden work or false green receipts have been detected. But then we read in the same report that there were only 64 participations in the Public Prosecutor's Office, that is, the vast majority of the illegal situations detected by the ACT were not effectively reported and had no consequences. What the CFP proposes is that executive power be given to the final decisions of the ACT. In other words, if the Working Conditions Authority has found a situation of illegality, of false green receipt, then it is not understood the whole sacred way that the law requires that this situation be remedied, i.e. that there must be a communication to the Public Prosecutor's Office and that workers are dependent on the action of the Public Prosecutor's Office so that there is an action for judicial declaration of the falsity of these green receipts and for the recognition of the existence of a contract of employment. Therefore, what is proposed is that the conviction decision of the ACT itself has its executive force and that the worker may be recognized, for all legal purposes, by virtue of that decision of the ACT, the existence of a contract of work. Otherwise there are still situations of false green receipts, but then there are no consequences and the worker remains in the same situation and does not see the existence of a contract of work, which is the situation that actually exists and which must be recognised for all purposes. We know that there is another problem, which is that of the ineffectiveness of the ACT itself. We know that the participations that are made to the ACT, particularly by the unions, wait for more than one year for the response by the ACT – and that is when they have it! This situation must also be changed. But irrespective of this, there is a situation here related to the procedural regime of recognition of the existence of employment contracts in the case of false green receipts which must be altered in order to make effective the State's action in relation to these situations of illegality. That is what we propose here, and we hope that there will be an announcement from all parliamentary groups so that this situation can be effectively resolved. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u101	Mr José Moura Soeiro, from the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The generalization of precariousness in Portugal was largely due to the banalization of the breach of labour standards, i.e. a disregard of the law by employers whose effective and capable supervision does not correspond to. We speak of false green receipts, we speak of false temporary work, false outsourcing, false scholarships, false stages, false volunteerism, all mechanisms of concealment from a true subordinated work relationship, which does not correspond, but should, a contract of work. And we also talk about informal work, which continues to have a very large weight in Portugal. following the mobilizations against the troika, the mobilizations of « generation to scratch », the movements of precarious workers presented to this Parliament a legislative initiative of citizens, signed by more than 40 000 people, which gave rise to Law No 63 / 2013. This Law of Citizens' pulse was the only positive change in meaning that occurred in Portugal in terms of labour law. Its merit was to confer greater powers on the Labour Conditions Authority ( ACT ) to combat false green receipts and assume that it could not depend on the worker to bring to court the process of recognition of his employment contract because it was a cause of public interest and the State should assume the public interest of that case and the Public Prosecutor should assume recognition of the employment contract of these workers. under this law, about 2740 cases of false green receipts were detected and about 2000 workers were found to have recognized their contract of employment. Now, this is a little drop in the ocean of precariousness. But of course it is a mechanism that has shown to have potential and that has to be strengthened, it has to be deepened, because it is valuable. at the beginning of this legislature the Left Block has heard about the deepening of this Law and, in recent months, it has discussed with the Socialist Party and the Government, within a working group constituted for this purpose, a set of amendments capable of extending the scope and effectiveness of this Law. These amendments are based on the conclusions of the Working Party's report between the Socialist Party, the Government and the Left Block, to study measures to combat precariousness. And this commitment has already been transposed into the State budget for 2017. This work that has been completed must now become law. Therefore, in the context of the speciality of this legislative process, a joint proposal will be submitted between the Left Block and the Socialist Party to implement these amendments. And we are sure that, by strengthening the powers of the ACT, by giving more strength to the action of the Public Prosecutor, by extending the scope of this law, of this mechanism, of this special action for the recognition of the contract of work, not only to false green receipts but to all forms of concealment of the contract of work, which are forms of precarious labour relations, we will be taking a very important step in combating precariousness. We have discussed in recent months a programme to regularise precarious links in the State. In the private sector, too, the fight against precariousness must be seen in the light of the day, and in the private sector there must also be concrete measures, which change to labour legislation and reinforce these mechanisms. That is what we are discussing about the bill, about democracy against labour abuse, about respect for the basic rights that people have, about respect for the rights of precarious people, about the consecration of their right to work, is about their right to a contract that this bill deals with. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u103	Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : The Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party have resolved, today, to try to prove who, among them, screams louder in the name of the precarious ones. Let me tell you that you both have done a terrible service to those who have a precarious job. All this doesn't go through a simulation. We already know that these bills are to go down to committee without a vote. Left Block and Portuguese Communist Party are in a great hurry to press the Socialist Party. And the rush is so great that they're already bumping into each other. The PCP has scheduled its bill without even having had the mandatory public consultation and the Left Block has done the same without having completed its public consultation deadline. Now you don't yell that public consultation is missing? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u105	The public consultation on the left block bill ended more than a year ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u106	Left Block and Portuguese Communist Party, once again, run into social consultation, which no longer surprises us. However, they run over the Constitution, which they say defend so incarnately, is that it is already a surprise! The Left Block bill has been able to receive criticism from the CIP to the CGTP and is the CGTP that says the same violates Article 56. the, paragraph 1, of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. of the 14 entities that have already spoken, only one is in favour of the bill. What is it? The Association of Combating Precautionary - Inflexible Precautions, best known for Inflexible Precautions. Now, what it seems is that the Left Block wants to transform this association into its CGTP, giving it the rights of trade unions, which obviously the true CGTP contests because it is unconstitutional - and rightly so. But it wasn't enough for the Left Block to attack employers, now you also want to attack unions? Oh, my God! Now, what we know is that this is an unbalanced bill that promotes conflict. Now, in relation to the PCP, which required this schedule, the pressure was so great to run the Left Block that it is proposing in its bill that, before mere indications, ACT may become police, judge and executioner, violating the principle of the separation of powers. I am also surprised to see Mr António Filipe on the role of Dirty Harry from the precarious — make my day. That is, now the ACT, which is an organ of the Public Administration, is doing what only the courts, according to our Constitution, can do. Mr António Filipe, is the Constitution now useless? Is that what the CFP thinks our Constitution stands for? So, the administrative bodies are now courts and decide conflicts between individuals? I don't think it's a good situation. As for the Socialist Party, what will they do about what your understanding partners propose to you? Are you going to approve? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u107	For an intervention, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : As for these two initiatives, one by the CFP, and the other by BE, here under discussion, I must begin by saying that they are no more than a political 'number', a total demagogy, without rigor and with an excess of unacceptable populism. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u109	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you do not respect trade unions or courts and, above all, do not respect workers. What you say is exactly the opposite of what you put forward in these initiatives. I'll explain. As for the initiative presented by the Left Block, says the Left Block in the initiative—and just said here—which aims to extend the procedural mechanisms to combat false green receipts. Mr President, we have read the initiative and have found no extension of the mechanisms. What we have found was an extension to other entities — than the Members. Members do not say why or what they are — to intervene in the collective interest or in the interests of the worker. Mrs. Members, this is a total lack of respect for both the workers and the unions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u110	This is a right which already assists the trade union associations, but the honourable Members. Members, as I said, have only extended to other entities and have not strengthened any rights of workers, clearly showing that they are not concerned and acting in total disrespect for them. As for the initiative put forward by the CFP, what you say is one thing and its opposite. The gentlemen. Members have come to say that they want an act's conviction ruling to be executive. But what are you guys doing? Members, in fact, say that an act car, where there are indications that there may or may not be a contract of employment, becomes executive title. But, worse, it is: Mr. Members say that the same document is an executive title and, at the same time, we will discuss whether or not it is a contract of work. In other words, the worker has a document to say that it is a contract of work and the same document will be evaluated to determine whether it is a contract of work. Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, what are we staying in? Oh, my God! This is to create more problems, this is a total inconsistency, it is a disrespect by the courts and, as I said, and I stress again, it is a total disrespect by workers and labour stability. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u111	I would therefore like to tell the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen — like, in fact, the honourable Members. Members have already had the opportunity to point out — that this parliamentary group in the past, i.e. in 2013 had a strong contribution to the law in which a mechanism was created which, yes, effectively comes against the false green receipts. And we are available to work whatever is necessary to improve this mechanism. But it is not here, it is not with the proposals that you are proposing. Members now submit, that they have no rigour and that they are no exception to populist proposals, trying to deceive the workers and saying that they are concerned about them, when they actually do not create solutions for them, but rather more problems. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u112	For an intervention, Mrs Sofia Araújo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by welcoming the PCP and the Left Block for the initiatives that bring the debate. The CFP Bill aims to amend Law No 107 / 2009 of 14 September, which regulates the procedural regime applicable to work and social security counter-ordinations, limiting the situations in which it is possible to lift warning cars and confer an executive title on all decisions of the ACT. The Government of the Socialist Party is committed to strengthening mechanisms to combat precarious employment patterns and all forms of concealment of the labour contract. In fact, the inspection capacity of the ACT was strengthened with the launch of an invitation to tender for 80 new inspectors, and in the State Budget for 2017, approved by Law No 42 / 2016 of 28 December, a standard was introduced which authorises the interconnection of data between the ACT services, social security and the Tax Authority, with a view to strengthening the intervention capacity to combat labour infringements, including the misuse and illegal use of term contracts and false green receipts. At the same time, recognizing the need to strengthen workers'protection mechanisms, especially against dismissal in the course of the special action for the recognition of the contract of work, we want to work, as a specialist, to find the best solution in order to strengthen the enforceability of the verdict decisions of the ACT. This is what we will do with the PCP, making it easier to fight precarious situations in the private sector. The draft law of BE deepens the legal regime of the special action for the recognition of the existence of contract of work, established by Law No 63 / 2013 of 27 August, and extends the procedural mechanisms to combat false green receipts and all forms of undeclared work, including false stages and false volunteering. It is also a fight for which they count on the Socialist Party. in one of the working groups set up to deepen this theme, the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the Government have already reached an agreement to review Law No 63 / 2013, as it is also registered in the State Budget for 2017. In line with the conclusions of this group and the work carried out in recent months, we will now work together, in particular, for a joint text, signed by the two parties, which implements these amendments and reinforces the fight against precariousness. As mentioned above, Law No 63 / 2013 resulted from a citizen initiative dynamized by Inflexible Precaries, which created an administrative procedure to be adopted by the Act, in the event of verification of improper use of the service provision contract, and a new special action in the Labour Process Code, the "action of recognition of the existence of work contract", brought before the Public Prosecutor, of an urgent and informal nature, thus dishonouring the worker of the procedural impulse. This legal regime has already allowed, at least until 31 July 2016, the regularization of a significant set of false green receipts. According to data provided by the Act, 2740 irregular workers were detected following several inspection actions, and 913 workers were regularized at the administrative stage, corresponding to about 33 % of workers detected in irregular situations. We want to go further now and, within committee, we will work with the parties that support this government solution to find a legal solution, appropriate and prompt, to the problem we want to caution. I end by saying that, in this fight, the PS is, and will always be, present! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u114	For a final speech, Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u115	Mr President, Mr António Carlos Monteiro, certainly has already acknowledged that it is not in fact correct what he said, because the bill of the Left Block entered on January 19, 2016 and the public discussion ended a year ago, on March 25, 2016, so you can quote the opinions. I wanted to keep that on record. But what is loaded is the CDS coming to this debate, trying to make itself pass through the spokesperson of the CGTP and the trade unions. Mr President, it has been the most charged element of this debate!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u116	Charged is the Left Block!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u117	Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, the objective of the Left Block project is to extend the scope of the special action for the recognition of the contract of work, not only to false green receipts, but to all forms of concealment of a contract of work. Just see what the object of the bill is! The object of the bill is the application of this mechanism, not only to green receipts, but to all these forms of concealment of labor contracts. In addition, Mrs Deputy, there are concrete measures here that allow the employer, for example, not to use the 'atomic bomb' to fire the worker, or the dispensation, because there is no contract between the time the Act finds that there should be a contract and the time when the court decides. And this is the subject of a commitment that is established between the Left Block and the Socialist Party, which already has an expression in the State Budget and which will be the subject of a joint text between the two parties, which will be presented in the discussion in the specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u118	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u119	I conclude, Mr. President. Therefore, with the joint work of this majority, these amendments will be law soon. We have done this work for months and whether the PSD and the CDS want to refuse, there will even be changes to encourage the fight against precariousness and to guarantee the rights of workers. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Protests by PSD Member Adam Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u120	Mr António Filipe also spoke for a final intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u121	Mr President, Mr António Carlos Monteiro : the PCP bill does not directly affect labour, so it has not been submitted for public consultation. And the honourable Member will recognise that the CFP Parliamentary Group is not often distracted by these things! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u122	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u123	But the honourable Member and Mrs Clara Marques Mendes also said that it was a lack of respect for the courts that a conviction of an administrative entity, in the case of the Act, should not be recognised by the courts for executive effectiveness. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, would you like me to give you examples of administrative decisions that have executive powers? Mr. António Carlos Monteiro, try to stop paying the IRS (tax on income of natural persons) and see if the Tax Authority will have to use the courts to ask the Public Prosecutor to institute an action against the Member so that he has to pay the IRS. [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u124	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u125	I shall conclude, Mr President. You will try and see if the state needs to go to court so that you have to pay the fine you are obliged to. But the bottom line...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u126	And is the Administration solving the conflict if there's an accident between cars? It's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u127	Mr. President, I wanted to finish, but I needed Mr. Ladies and gentlemen would let me... [[CDS-PP laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u128	I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u129	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President, by saying that the conclusion of this debate is that the PSD and the CDS, in the face of a situation of manifest illegality, which is the use of false green receipts, do not want to change anything. I mean, for you, it's illegal, but it should stay the way it is! The position of you is the defense of illegality and the continuation of illegality with total impunity. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u130	Mrs. Members, we thus end the debate, in general, of draft laws No 458 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and 105 / XIII ( 1. ( a). As a fifth item on the agenda, motion for a resolution No 43/ XIII ( 2 ) is scheduled without time for discussion. ( a ) — Approves the European Agreement on Persons intervening in Cases before the European Court of Human Rights, opened for signature in Strasbourg on 5 March 1996. Before we proceed to the vote, I give the floor to Secretary Duarte Pacheco to make an announcement to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, he entered the Bureau and was admitted, draft resolution No 765 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Extension of the period of operation of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the Recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box and the Management of the Bank ( President of the HR ), which will be voted on today.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u132	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us therefore enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] The electronic table records 207 meetings, so we have quorum to vote. Mrs. Members, let us begin by voting No 263 / XIII — Condemning and regretting the London attack ( President of RA, PSD, The Greens, BE, CDS-PP, PAN and PS ). I call on Secretary Duarte Pacheco to proceed with the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On Wednesday, 22 March, terror returned to Europe, precisely one year after the Brussels attacks. The British Parliament, the seat of democracy and popular will, was the stage of a barbaric attack on the values of freedom and human life, once again claimed by Daesh. Four people died and 40 were injured, in a globally known scenario that joins Parliament, Westminster Bridge and Big Ben Tower. Among the victims are citizens of various nationalities, including one Portuguese, which shows the cosmopolitan character of London and the global dimension of the terrorist threat. at this hour, our thought is with the families of the victims. Our solidarity goes to the United Kingdom, a friendly people and our oldest ally. Our admiration is expressed in relation to the readiness and bravery of the security forces, who had a fatal victim in their ranks. As parliamentarians, we cannot but have a special word for our British counterparts, who saw their democratic debate interrupted by terrorist cowardice. It will continue in our memory the courage of the Member and State Undersecretary Tobias Ellwood to seek to revive Keith Palmer, a deadlyly stabbed police officer. These acts of courage should inspire the British police and judicial authorities in the search for truth and justice. It is this example of life and freedom that should make us reaffirm our democratic values when we seek peace and security. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its most vehement condemnation of the attacks in London and conveys its greatest sympathy to the families of the victims, the United Kingdom and the British people. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u134	We must make a correction to this vote. Unfortunately, there was another confirmed death, so the number of deaths caused by the attack went to five. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall enter the debate period of the votes to be voted on. As was deliberate at the last Conference of Leaders, we will divide them into subjects. in the first phase, votes n. 253 / XIII ( 2 ) are under discussion. ( a ) — Repudiation of the insulting statements made by the President of the Eurogroup, Jeroen Dijsselbloem ( BE ), 255 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Rejected by the public statements of the President of the Eurogroup ( CDS-PP ), 256 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Condemning the unacceptable statements made by the Dutch Minister of Finance and the President of the Eurogroup, Jeroen Dijsselloem ( PSD ), 257 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Protest and repudiation by the insulting words of the President of the Eurogroup and the new threat of sanctions on Portugal by the European Central Bank ( CFP ) and 258 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Condemnation by the statements by Jeroen Dijsselloem, President of the Eurogroup, on the countries of southern Europe ( PS ). Each parliamentary group has a total time of 4 minutes to make speeches on these votes. For the first intervention, Mr Miguel Morgado of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u135	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on this subject, I would like to reiterate the PSD position that the leader of my bench, Mr Luís Montenegro, had already made quite clear here in the Assembly of the Republic on Wednesday. Mr Dijsselbloem's statements, known throughout Europe, are unacceptable either in form or in content. in this way, they even address the dignity of the position he exercises and, in the content, are insulting, especially at a point that, for the PSD, is crucial. The PSD will neither tolerate nor tolerate mixing the efforts and sacrifices that the Portuguese have been doing for several years to this part, including today, to recover and rebalance the country. in this sense, the PSD takes the following consequence: the President of the Eurogroup has to leave. [[Congratulations from the PSD and CDS-PP Member Pedro Mota Soares.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u136	Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party reaffirms its condemnation of the insulting and shameful words of the President of the Eurogroup.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u138	He forgot to say that he too is a socialist!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u139	And they are shameful and insulting because they are xenophobic, racist and populist and tend to divide Europe and go against what has always been the design of the European project: a project of peace, solidarity and cohesion. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as Portuguese and Europeans, we must not fail to point out that these words are an insult to all those who, over the last few years, have been subject to enormous sacrifices and still today, we can confirm that the Portuguese State is fulfilling its European obligations and that the deficit is at 2, 1 %, or better, slightly below 2, 1 %. Therefore, the truth is that Portugal is fulfilling its commitments. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Dijsselbloem's words deserve the condemnation of the Socialist Party and also of the European Socialist Party. It does not matter whether these statements were made by a member of our political family, because they are, on the whole, absolutely reprehensible, insulting and, for the Socialist Party, they must immediately be removed from the presidency of the Eurogroup. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u140	You have the floor on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Mota Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The statements of the — so far — President of the Eurogroup are, in our view, unacceptable and must lead to their immediate resignation. The Minister — Socialist — of the Dutch Finances made statements that are sexists, which demonstrate a vision of the world that we thought was already exceeded... [[PS protests.]] Isn't he a socialist, perhaps? Oh, my God! But his statements are, above all, deeply prejudiced, being said by those who have great responsibilities in the European framework. These are statements that separate the north and the south, debtors and creditors, good and bad, and of what the European Union needs is solidarity, it is collaboration, it is not a division which, above all, is unfair and artificial. It is also evident from this that this prejudice is not exclusive of some political currents. But the worst thing is that these statements, in fact, open the way for populism, open the way for xenophobia, open the way for prejudice. That is exactly why the condemnation of the Portuguese Parliament must be strong, it must be vehemently and must call for the immediate resignation of this Mr of his duties, because he clearly has no dimension, he has no European vision to occupy such an important position as that of the President of the Eurogroup. With its statements, it opens a vision of xenophobia for Europe, which we cannot accept, and that is why our vote is so clear, so firm and so evident, both in condemnation and in the call for the immediate resignation of the President of the Eurogroup. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u142	To speak on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the House : The Left Block rejects all along the statements made by the President of the Eurogroup, Dijsselbloem. As we have already had the opportunity to say, statements with a highly prejudiced, macho, xenophobic content that directly attack all the peoples of the south and, in particular, Portugal. And all the more unacceptable are these statements as well as the largest period of austerity for which this country has passed has also been greatly boosted by the Eurogroup itself while you have been President. Therefore, these blackmails that were made at the time and now this type of preconceived declarations to the countries of the south and to Portugal are absolutely unacceptable.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u144	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u145	Today all parliamentary groups have voted against or condemned by the statements made. It seems that, however, we are not all in tune, not all votes are exactly the same, because, in our view, it is not possible to condemn form and not content or condemn content and not form or even condemn content only because it came from a certain political family. These statements, both in form and content, and regardless of who comes, are absolutely unacceptable and that is what the Left Block says in its vote. And now, with regard to the CDS vote, there is a division of spirit and feelings within the CDS itself, because leader Nuno Melo considered in an article statements « to a certain extent legitimate », and therefore that the problem was the form rather than the content. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] We must clarify whether or not we are here condemning the statements by Dijsselbloem, which are absolutely unacceptable, but which is clearly not so for the CDS. Finally, the Left Block rejects the form, content and prejudice underlying these statements and therefore he does not have the conditions to stand before the Eurogroup. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u146	Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens are associated with the votes of protest and repudiation for the unfortunate and unacceptable statements made by the President of the Eurogroup concerning Portugal and the other countries of the south. in this context I think it would be worth noting that when we talk about the President of the Eurogroup, we are talking about one of the great promoters of austerity policies that have done so much wrong to Portuguese in terms of rights and incomes, and that not only have they resolved as they have even worsened the problems. But more: when the President of the Eurogroup talks about the waste of money from the countries of the South, he should, because it would be more appropriate and more sensible, talk about the money that the countries of the South have wasted in helping the bank, particularly the Dutch bank. But I could also talk about the money that countries like Portugal have left and are still not receiving because the European Union continues to close its eyes to the shame it represents allowing Portuguese companies to move their tax office to the Netherlands so as not to pay taxes in Portugal and pay them in the Netherlands when they should pay them in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u148	All right! [[CDS-PP Protests:]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u149	These were the wastes that should be mentioned, but the President of the Eurogroup preferred the easy conversation on the subject that is outraged by all Portuguese and Portuguese. Therefore, from what I said, but above all from what I represent, the current President of the Eurogroup definitely ceases to have the conditions to continue in office and therefore the Greens demand that they immediately withdraw from the Presidency of the Eurogroup. [[Applause from The Greens and Members of the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u150	Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We will concentrate attention solely on the statements or the figure of whom you have given them, turning off these statements from all mechanisms and instruments of blackmail and pressure on our country, we only want to see a part of the problem. It is obvious that these statements are sovereigns, xenophobics, sexists, who are believed to be the owner of Europe and the owner of sovereign countries and states, of whom he considers that he can impose a single political solution as legitimate, which is the one which serves the interests of Germany or which serves the interests of the power directory of the European Union. But these statements, which are obviously unacceptable and which confirm that those who have given them do not have strict conditions to keep in office, are also the reflection of what has been a domain and control attitude of Member States over other Member States of the framework of the European Union and of the use not only of the institutions of the European Union as a set of mechanisms associated with them to impose decisions against the sovereignty and national interests of the Member States. These statements by Mr Dijsselbloem are not disconnected from the statements that the German Finance Minister Schäuble had made a few weeks ago, announcing or threatening the possibility of a new pact of aggression against our country. Nor are they disconnected from the recent position taken by the European Central Bank, which threatens a new process of sanctions, now in the name of a procedure for macroeconomic imbalances. This set of measures, the budgetary treaty, economic governance, a set of other instruments that are now within the reach of the European Union are effectively used as weapons of blackmail and pressure on countries such as Portugal and it is in this context that these statements are included. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on our part, as we have for four years denounced the policy of aggravating, exploitation, impoverishment and its brute consequences that were being carried out by the PSD and the CDS, giving voice to the Portuguese people when they were fighting against these policies and against the European impositions under which the PSD and the CDS were hidden, today we also give voice to all those who, by placing themselves in a critical and rejection position of those statements by Mr Dijsselbloem, do not cease to associate to this the defense of national sovereignty and the defence of the rejection of all blackmail, threat and pressure mechanisms on our country in relation to the sovereign decisions of the Portuguese people and their sovereignty. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u152	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then proceed to the vote on these votes. Let us begin by voting No 253 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Repudiation of the insulting statements made by the President of the Eurogroup, Jeroen Dijsselbloem ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[In an interview with the German newspaper Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, published last Sunday, March 19, the current President of the Eurogroup, Jeroen Dijsselbloem, decided to insult all the citizens of southern Europe and their democratic institutions. The Dutch Minister of Finance also stated that "no money can be spent on alcohol and women and then ask for help", in a simple and demagogic attempt to explain the reasons for the economic and monetary union crisis. These xenophobic and sexist statements are unacceptable and an insult to all the citizens of southern Europe. Respect among peoples must be one of the fundamental pillars of relations at European level. With this statement, Jeroen Dijsselbloem demonstrates a preconceived and chauvinist view of millions of citizens and their respective countries, full members of the European institutions. Then faced with his own statements by various Members of the European Parliament, Jeroen Dijsselbloem rejected any apology from the countries and peoples of southern Europe, demonstrating that his provocative statements were conscious and intentional. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its most vehement rejection of the statements made by the current President of the Eurogroup, Jeroen Dijsselbloem, and calls for his immediate portrayal.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u153	We turn to vote No 255 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Rejected by the public statements of the President of the Eurogroup ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[On 19 March, the President of the Eurogroup and Minister for Finance of the Netherlands, by the Socialist Party, Jeroen Djsselbloem, said that "you cannot spend any money on alcohol and women and then ask for help", referring to certain countries in the south of the euro area. These statements made by the Dutch Minister, a member of an integrated party in the European Socialist family, are inadmissible. First of all, because they are based on a bias of a sexist nature. Secondly, because they sit in an unacceptable stereotype that offends all the peoples of the countries of the south, in which Portuguese are included, how they can induce a division and fracture between alleged spenders and payers, undermining confidence among the Member States of the European Union. The dissemination of simplification and segregation visions, such as the one expressed by the President of the Eurogroup, is a dangerous archaism of those who have learned nothing from the crisis in the Eurozone. Financial crises are painful and take years to resolve, but cultural prejudices or with the intention of being civilizational can result in very serious divisions. Europe demands respect among all and the efforts and sacrifices made by the Portuguese people, with great dignity, in overcoming one of the most difficult and serious economic and financial crises the country has experienced, must be respected. So far, the President of the Eurogroup has not only been portrayed as he has not, as he should, made an apology. However, and regardless of what it will do in the future, it was clear that the Dutch Socialist Minister does not have the conditions to continue ahead of the Eurogroup. In this sense, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its most vehement repudiation of the public statements produced by the current President of the Eurogroup, repudiates the spread of cultural and civilizational prejudices between countries of the north and the south and calls for the immediate resignation of the President of the Eurogroup.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u154	The following vote No 256 / XIII ( 2 ) shall be taken: ( a ) — Condemning the unacceptable statements made by the Dutch Minister of Finance and the President of the Eurogroup, Jeroen Dijsselbloem ( PSD ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[It is as follows: The current Minister of Finance of the Dutch Government, who currently presides over the Eurogroup, Jeroen Dijsselbloem, has made statements that, in its form and content, are insulting and unacceptable to Portugal. In this way, statements are unacceptable because they have resorted to graces of a bad taste that are contrary to the dignity of the Europeans and to the position that the President of the Eurogroup still holds. In the content, statements are inappropriate and insulting for mixing the effort made by the Portuguese, and by other peoples who had to go through adjustment processes with great sacrifice and dignity. In addition, after the publication of its statements, the President of the Eurogroup, having the opportunity to regret or clarify them, finally reiterated them. Even though Jeroen Dijsselblo belongs to the European Socialist family, no one who holds such an important role in European structures, whatever their party origin, can make such statements without being subjected to political condemnation vehemently. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, rejects the statements made by the current President of the Eurogroup and considers them incompatible with the stay of Jeroen Dijsselbloem in his office within the Eurogroup.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u155	With regard to vote No 257 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — In protest and rejection of the insulting words of the President of the Eurogroup and the new threat of sanctions on Portugal by the European Central Bank ( CFP ), the PS calls for the vote on point 4 and then on the remaining points. Let us therefore vote on point 4. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] We shall vote on the remaining points of vote No 257 / XIII ( 2. ( a). [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP:]] [[The vote is of the following content: For several years, the people and the country have been subjected to a brutal policy of intensifying the concentration and centralization of wealth, of aggravating exploitation, impoverishment and submission to taxation outside their needs and interests, particularly within the framework of the euro and the European Union, with a view to looting and concentrating the resources of workers and the country in the financing operations of financial capital. The reality, however, has confirmed that not only the results announced as objectives of these measures have not been achieved, but also, as a result of these options, injustices and inequalities have worsened and the country has been economically and socially sunk. The popular expression of rejection of these policies and of the demand for their reversal has found translation in the remedies for rights and incomes achieved in the political framework resulting from the elections of 4 October 2015. During 2016, Portugal was struck by a variety of pressures, including the threat of sanctions to be applied by the European Union in the context of an excessive deficit procedure, which resulted in an unacceptable interference with the Portuguese people's options and in confirming a European Union stance to try to hinder, or even prevent, the realization of the replacement of Portuguese rights and income. Far from it being the pretext of the 'excessive deficit', in so far as Portugal has met, and has even surpassed, the demands for correction of the deficit made by the European Union, despite the constraints that this compliance has entailed for the national economy and the severe limitations that require the necessary replacement of rights and the improvement of the living conditions that the Portuguese demand and have rights, here the Portuguese people are again confronted with unacceptable insults and threats from the highest leaders of the European Union. At the same time as the President of the Eurogroup is allowed to accuse Portugal of spending money on 'alcohol and women', the European Central Bank is allowed to threaten Portugal with a new process of sanctions now on the pretext of 'excessive macroeconomic imbalances'. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic: 1 — Expresses its protest and repudiation for the insulting statements made by the President of the Eurogroup concerning Portugal and calls for his departure from that office; 2 — Repudiates the pressures which, in the form of a threat of sanctions, aim at conditioning the political debate and the decisions which only the Portuguese people and national sovereignty can take; 3 — considers that the possible application of sanctions to Portugal constitutes a form of interference contrary to the national interest, which must be rejected by the national sovereignty bodies and by the representatives of the Portuguese people in the institutions of the European Union; 4 — considers that the refusal of threats and pressure on Portugal should consider rejection of the mechanisms associated with it, including the budgetary treaty, the diplomas of economic governance and the process of the European Semester.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u156	The following vote shall be taken at vote No 258/ XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemnation by the statements by Jeroen Dijsselloem, President of the Eurogroup, on the countries of southern Europe ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[On 19 March, the German newspaper Frankfurter Allgemeine gave the print an interview with the Minister of Finance of the Low Countries and also President of the Eurogroup, Jeroen Dijsselbloem, in which he pronounced himself unacceptable on the Member States of southern Europe, claiming that "no money can be spent on alcohol and women and then asking for help."So far, no portrayal or note of regret has been produced on the words given. The European project, the 60th anniversary of which we celebrate in the next few days, was built based on solidarity, equality and respect among all Member States, and, on the basis of this spirit, contributed to the guarantee of peace and prosperity on the continent. The ghastly and insulting acts of populist animes and disrespect the citizens of southern Europe, many of whom have been subjected over the last few years to intense sacrifices, loss of quality of life and loss of social protection, can only contribute to poisoning the public debate. There can be no condescendence to those who have not been prevented from feeding artificial barriers based on prejudice and xenophobia, and who have no more than translated a simplistic and intentionally distorted reading of the complex of problems which, over the last few years, have been undermining the economic governance of the euro area, noting a radicalism corresponding to the most intransigent readings of the role of the European institutions in overcoming crises such as that which has been taking place since the middle of the last decade in Europe. Ideological differences and policies on public fiscal consolidation policies cannot be used to support the insult, disrespect and reduction of long-term partners in statements made by any political leader. In view of the responsibilities exercised by Jeroen Dijsselbloem in the government of his country and in the presidency of the Eurogroup, the declarations assume redoubled seriousness and demonstrate eloquently the unsustainability of his continuity in the leadership of that institution, determining for the future of the European Union. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, vehemently condemns the unacceptable statements made by the current President of the Eurogroup, Jeroen Dijsselbloem, and calls upon the self and the Government to which a request for public apology still belongs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u157	We now proceed to the discussion of vote No 254 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Solidarity and support for the Portuguese community based in Venezuela ( PSD ). I would remind you whether or not the parliamentary groups intervene, as they wish, in relation to each of these votes. For an intervention, Mr José Cesario of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Assembly of the Republic cannot make this situation clear. This is a very serious situation, which affects hundreds of thousands of our fellow countrymen who suffer — particularly in recent months — with a very serious and absolutely unacceptable situation. In May 2016, the Assembly of the Republic has already spoken on this issue, but the fact is that in recent months the situation has worsened, with the occupation of establishments and with the lack of essential goods and therefore the Assembly of the Republic cannot fail to reaffirm solidarity with this community and to give a word of strong encouragement to the government to develop all possible actions in the sense of our community to feel accompanied and that extreme situations can be avoided. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u159	Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u160	Mr President, there are not many ways to describe what is happening in Venezuela: social chaos, intense political disturbance, serious security problems, economic emergency. All together creates an unsustainable situation for the people and requires particular attention, especially in view of the vast Portuguese community that lives there. The hundreds of thousands of Portuguese living in Venezuela are now subject to serious contradictions, unbearable losses and unsustainable deprivations. They lost property, lost business, lost the money they had earned throughout their lives, and eventually lost family and friends. in this context, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group considers it essential — and even insurmountable — to find the paths that can contain these serious damage and, at the same time, to define a solution so that the Portuguese living in Venezuela can dream again and be happy in the country they have chosen to live. In addition to this profound solidarity, we express our commitment to a concerted action to help and support Portugal in Venezuela. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u161	Since there are no more entries, we shall therefore proceed to the vote on vote No 254 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Of solidarity and support to the Portuguese community based in Venezuela ( PSD ), for which the CFP requested first to be voted on in point 1 and then paragraph 2. Let us start by voting on point 1. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 2. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against the CFP and the Greens and the abstention of BE.]] [[In May 2016, the Assembly of the Republic approved a vote of solidarity with the Venezuelan people and the Portuguese community based in Venezuela. Since then, however, we have seen a clear worsening of the local situation, particularly in terms of insecurity, economic degradation and the living conditions of the population, which includes many thousands of Portuguese and Portuguese-venezuelan. Often, this House has been confronted with reports of very serious situations that strongly condition the day-to-day of this large community, which, like the generality of the Venezuelan people, experiences great difficulties in maintaining their professional and business activities and ensuring the safety of each family. In the last few days, serious pressures have been reported on entrepreneurs in the area of breadmaking, largely Portuguese, who are forced to sell bread without having access to the raw material necessary for their preparation. There are even extreme cases where some bakeries, owned by national citizens, have been occupied by the authorities and by members of popular committees. This serious social, economic and insecurity situation thus obliges the Portuguese Government to maintain permanent and very intense diplomatic action with the Venezuelan authorities in order to ensure maximum follow-up and support on the ground to the members of the most affected Portuguese community. In this respect, the Assembly of the Republic decides: 1-Reaffirming its full support for the Portuguese Community based in Venezuela at the time of a worsening social, economic and insecurity situation. 2-Incentivising the Portuguese Government to increase its diplomatic and political efforts in direct support of this community, developing all possible dyques in order to support the most serious cases, especially national citizens who are experiencing difficulties in terms of their livelihood, those who are the target of criminal actions and those who see their conditioned business activity, as in the present case, those in the area of breadmaking.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u162	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u163	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u164	Mr President, to report that the CFP has already made a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u165	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We now turn to vote No 259 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Greetings by Mediterranean Day ( PSD and PS ). I inform you that the vote is the authorship of the PSD Members who are members of the Delegation of the Assembly of the Republic to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean ( AP-UpM ) and the Delegation of the Assembly of the Republic to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean ( APM ). I ask Secretary Sandra Pontedeira to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u166	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « March 21 is the Day of the Mediterranean since 2008. In 2017, this date is dedicated to the role of education in combating radicalization and extremism. at a time when the situation in the southern Mediterranean countries requires a determined and effective action, the commitment of the Portuguese Parliament to this sea that unites peoples linked by cultural ties and affinity was strengthened with the recent election to the Presidency of the Mediterranean Parliamentary Assembly for the two years 2017 / 2018, on 11. the plenary session of the organization, which took place in Porto, on 23 and 24 February 2017. Also in the framework of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Union for the Mediterranean, the Assembly of the Republic renewed its commitment to contribute to peace, security, democracy and progress in the Mediterranean countries and in the world, through the Presidency of the Economic, Financial, Social and Education Commission, which will meet in Coimbra on 27 March, to promote dialogue and cooperation around Euro-Mediterranean projects in the field of education. The Mediterranean, the cradle of our civilization, sadly transformed into a stage of humanitarian tragedies, calls for the urgent construction of bridges between a Europe capable of welcoming those fleeing from fear, war and terror and a North African and Middle East committed to strengthening the institutions of the rule of law, based on law and order and respect for human rights, all united in the fight against the root causes of migratory flows and the promotion of human security. The Assembly of the Republic meeting in plenary therefore decides: 1 — Call for political and social transformations to be carried out in the southern Mediterranean to promote the inclusion of all social groups through youth policies and job creation and the enhancement of the role of women, promoting citizenship and human rights and actively combating the manipulation and propaganda of terrorist organisations. 2 — To call on the northern Mediterranean States to adopt concrete policies to combat the causes that lead to young people feeling excluded from society and leaving their families to join extremist and radical organisations, in particular by strengthening the role of education in promoting common values of freedom, tolerance and non-discrimination and in developing social cohesion and inclusive society. 3 — Call on the parliamentary assemblies to unite representatives of the two Mediterranean shores so that these forums for intercultural and inter-religious dialogue and combating fundamental rights can play an active and concrete role in combating radicalization and extremism leading to terrorism. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u167	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u168	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u169	To what end, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u170	Mr President, it is to inform us that we shall send a statement of vote to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u171	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we now turn to vote No 260 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Greetings by Student Day ( PSD and CDS-PP ), 261 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Greetings by Student Day ( PS ) and 262 / III ( 2 ). ( a ) — Greetings for the celebration of Student Day ( PCP ). Mr Diogo León has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On the National Student Day, the PS Parliamentary Group here, with just reverence, recalls the sacrifices of successive generations of students in the name of freedom of thought, opinion, assembly, decision, criticism, seeking democratic participation in the life of schools and universities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It also recalls other sacrifices, the consequences of which are still felt today in national life: the sacrifices of all Portuguese who were unable to study over 48 years of the New State. Today, the PS recalls and welcomes the student associative movement, recognizes that in our democracy the word "student" is synonymous with freedom, requirement, critical consciousness. We know how much they are committed to defending public school, open and inclusive, as teaching, lifelong learning, the right to which no one abandons studies due to economic deficiency. We share with the Portuguese these designs and urge all students never to lose their voice, even the voice that perhaps demands us, parliamentarians, at this moment, the impossible, because knowledge is the key to our future and what is impossible today, in the future, may already be passed. So we have confidence. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u173	On behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today's Student Day is celebrated. The student movement is a basic pillar for social transformation. We look at history and we proudly conclude that students were protagonists of the great struggles of their time, against war, in defense of freedom of expression, for scientific freedom and for the progress of the peoples. Half a century ago, in the 1962 and 1969 crisis, the students rose against the delay that fascism had imposed on the Country, the education and the development of a people. on 25 April, the struggle for education and development was rightly directed by this same student movement. in the 1990s, in the fight against the tips, the universities went out on the street and the courage of thousands of students faced the injustice of the measure. Today, we wanted to walk back a few years in order to avoid the cuts of 30 % that higher education and science suffered, the increase in propines and the abandonment of about 25 % of students from their degrees. Today, as never before, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is essential to fight for a higher education than the time we live in, capable of transforming society and not reproduction of its stigmas, as the students of that time dreamed about half a century ago. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u175	by the Parliamentary Group of the CFP, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: March 24, 1962, marks a historic milestone in the struggle of Portuguese students against fascism and freedom, by the right of assembly and association, by the autonomy of the university and the democratization of education. For months, through large plenary sessions, concentrations, demonstrations and strikes, students bravely faced prohibitions, closure of associations and academic facilities, police charges, mass arrests, disciplinary processes, expulsions and a whole arsenal of fascist violence and repression, on memorable days that contributed strongly to unmasking, isolation and weakening fascism. The academic crisis of 1962 is part of a long tradition of student struggle which imposed the legal existence of student associations and which was affirmed as an important component of the popular movement that led to the April Revolution. In 2017, on 24 March, 30 years of recognition and consecration by the Assembly of the Republic of Student Day, a date which continues to make all the sense to be celebrated, not only marking the events of 1962, but also the entire heritage of struggle of Portuguese students over the years. These are struggles that are being fought today, also at various points in the country, by the students of basic and secondary education and higher education.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u177	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u178	The current student struggle in defense of freedom, the right to access to education and the highest levels of education, for better conditions in schools, for more school social action, for democratic participation, must be seen as a factor of progress and development in our country. That is why the CFP proposes this vote saying that the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary today, precisely on March 24, Student Day, welcomes the entire student community and welcomes the commemoration of this Student Day. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u179	by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, March 24, we mark Student Day. It is a day to remember the battles fought and to remember the courage, determination and firmness of the student community for the defense of freedom of expression, association and assembly and democracy. It is a day for us to pride ourselves as a nation for the undeniable civilizational advancement that we have been able to give them over the last century. We recall here that in 1910 at the time of the establishment of the Republic, 3⁄4 of the Portuguese were unable to read or write and today we defined as ambition for our country, from just three years ago, we had 40% of graduates between 30 and 34 years old. Today is especially a day to reassess what we do and look forward to what we ambition to be as a nation. The PSD welcomes today's students and students of all time for their contribution to the civilizational advances that we have been able to make over the past few decades, because, as Bernardino Machado pointed out more than a century ago, university must continue to be the school of everything, but above all freedom. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u181	On behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u182	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Today is celebrated who, 30 years ago, was consecrated in this House as the National Student Day. It is time to update the fundamental assumption that he has, which is that of the centrality of the student in the teaching system, be superior, be not superior, and let us not forget, in this House, that it is for students that the systems are built and it is for their educational success that they should mobilize. We welcome on this day all students for their resilient contribution, for the good results that our educational system, superior and not superior, has been achieving. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. President. — Ladies and gentlemen, Members, we shall proceed to the vote on vote No 260 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Greetings by Student Day ( PSD and CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[It is as follows: On March 24, Portugal celebrates the Student's Day. This efemeride has been held for several decades, and in 2017 they spend 30 years on their institutional consecration by the Assembly of the Republic as the National Student Day. In 1962, the regime banned students from celebrating their day, resorting to violence and arresting students, in the middle of what would be known as the 1962 academic crisis. The student community, which, being heterogeneous, is mainly marked by its determination, by its courage and firmness, has made a fundamental contribution over the last decades to higher education reform and to the improvement of education, society and the country. Commemorating and celebrating the date is important not only to remind us of the obstacles to the freedoms of the time, but mainly to make an important and necessary exercise: to reassess what we do and position ourselves in what we are. It allows us to reflect on where we were, and where we are, understanding the contribution of several generations to Portugal that is freer and fairer than we intend. The Assembly of the Republic welcomes the students of today and those of ever for their invaluable contribution to the civilizational advances we live in. Commemorating the Student’s Day is also a commemoration of the qualitative leap we have made as a nation.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u183	Mrs. Members, let us now vote on vote No 261 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Greetings by Student Day ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[It is as follows: The commemoration of the student's Day, officialized 30 years ago in 1987, but already held freely since the end of the New State regime, is a translator of a long journey of affirmation of civic, association and academic freedoms, in order to recall the importance of the student movement in decisive moments of combating dictatorship and emphasize the role of students in the lives of institutions. At a time of increasing tension between university students and dictatorship, the prohibition of academic associations signaling the Student Day, on March 24, 1962, marked a escalation in the challenge to the regime and the repression exercised in higher education institutions, which would extend until July and would be marked by strikes at classes in Lisbon, Porto and Coimbra, street events and concerts, subject to violent repression by the New State. The student crisis marked the awakening for the political activity of that generation of students, whose political and physical courage must be remembered and honored by those who today live and study in freedom. Today, in a time away from the need for resistance to a oppressive and petty dictatorship, the Student's Day should be marked not only by the memory of the struggle of the time, but also by the encouragement to participate in the life of the institutions, in the construction of a democratic and inclusive education system, of which the students form a decisive part. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, welcomes the commemoration of Student Day, addressing its tribute to all those who have fought for democracy and freedom in the student association movement and addresses its encouragement to all who, daily, ensure the representation of students in their educational institutions and contribute to their development.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u184	Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on vote No 262 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Greetings by the Student Day Commemoration ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[It is as follows: March 24, 1962 marks a historic milestone in the struggle of Portuguese students against fascism and freedom, through the right of assembly and association, through the autonomy of the university and the democratization of education. For months, through large plenary sessions, concentrations, demonstrations and strikes, students bravely faced prohibitions, closure of associations and academic facilities, police charges, mass arrests, disciplinary processes, expulsions, the entire arsenal of violence and fascist repression, on memorable days that contributed strongly to unmasking, isolation and weakening fascism. The academic crisis of 1962 is part of a long tradition of student struggle that imposed the legal existence of student associations and affirmed itself as an important component of the popular movement that led to the April Revolution. In 2017, 30 years of recognition and consecration by the Assembly of the Republic of Student Day, on March 24, the date which continues to make all the sense to be celebrated, not only marking the events of 1962, but also the entire heritage of struggle of Portuguese students over the years. The current student struggle in defense of freedom, the right to access to education and the highest levels of education, for better conditions in schools, for more school social action, for democratic participation, must be seen as a factor of progress and development in our country. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary on 24 March 2017, welcomes the entire student community and welcomes the commemoration of Student Day.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u185	Mrs. Members, let us vote on draft resolution No 765 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Extension of the period of operation of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the Recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box and the Management of the Bank ( AR President ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the general vote on Bill No 416 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establishs mechanisms to protect the blue heritage by proceeding with 13. the amendment to the Urbanization and Building Legal Regime ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The diploma goes down to 11. the Commission. We are now voting together on draft resolutions Nos 645 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Consecrate on May 6 as the National Tile Day ( PS ), 683/ XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Protection of Portuguese tile heritage ( PCP ), 720 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish mechanisms for protecting the Portuguese Azulejar Heritage ( CDS-PP ) and 723 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Protection and enhancement of Portuguese tile heritage ( BE). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on Bill No. 452 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Planning of the nuclear emergency and involvement of citizens ( The Greens ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The diploma goes down to 11. the Commission. Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 601 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends the establishment of an emergency response plan for incidents in the Central Nuclear of Almaraz ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 726 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government draw up a radiological emergency plan for cross-border nuclear accidents (PAN). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, let us now vote on draft resolution No 677 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government that the unemployment allowance may not be less than the IAS ( indexing of social support ) ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote on two requests submitted by the Left Block and the PCP respectively, asking for the discharge of the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without voting for a period of 60 days, of the projects of lein. 382 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Eliminates the reduction of 10 % to the amount of unemployment allowance after 180 days of concession ( BE) and 398 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Renouncing 10 % of the amount of unemployment benefit after 180 days of its grant ( second amendment to Decree-Law No 220 / 2006 of 3 November ) ( PCP ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Bills are down to 10. the Commission. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 762 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop a specific qualification programme for long-term unemployed 45 years of age ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 596 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government comply with Law No 65 / 2015 of 3 July and establish the year 2017 / 18 as a date to extend the universality of pre-school education for children 3 years of age ( PSD ). The PSD and the Left Block requested that points 1 and 3 be voted on first and then points 2 and 4. First of all, we shall vote on points 1 and 3. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us now vote on points 2 and 4. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were rejected and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 352 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — proposes the universalization of pre-school education from three years of age ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 690 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the universality of pre-school education at the age of 3 be achieved by 2019 and the requirement at the age of 5 ( CDS-PP ). The NAP calls for joint vote on points 1 and 2 and only after point 3. We shall therefore vote on points 1 and 2. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the CDS-PP and the PAN, and abstention from the PSD.]] We are now voting on point 3 of the same motion for a resolution. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, with votes against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] The vote on a request by the CDS-PP shall follow, requesting the discharge of the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, without a 30-day vote of draft resolution No 669 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government grant a new period of temporary exemption from payment of social security contributions to milk producers ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote together three requests, submitted by the authors of the diplomas, asking for the discharge of the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, without a vote, for a period of 30 days, of draft resolutions Nos 667 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government partially exempt the payment of contributions to social security for milk producers raw cow ( PSD ), 757 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government support for national dairy production, the fight against speculation of large distribution and the conciliation of positions for the replacement of a regulatory regime ( CFP ) and 761 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create the partial dispensation of social security contributions to producers of cow's milk ( PS ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 453 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amends the Civil Code by strengthening the legal protection of prohibited or disabled heirs ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN, votes against the PS and BE and abstentions from the CFP and the Greens.]] This diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. Then we will vote for Bill No. 454 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Sets out the conditions for the organisation, operation and installation of the occupational activity centre ( CAD ) ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] We shall proceed to the vote on an application submitted by the CDS-PP, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without a 60-day vote of Bill No 455 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The first amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code, the fourth amendment to Decree-Law No 91 / 2009 of 9 April 2009 and the third amendment to Decree-Law No 89 / 2009 will increase the period of parental leave in case of birth of children with disabilities or rare illness within 60 days, and creates the parental leave for premature birth associated with disability or rare disease, with more than six weeks before the presumed date of birth ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall generally vote on Bill No 456 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates the exceptional scheme for indexing the social benefits of the disabled in the Armed Forces ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS and BE.]] This diploma goes down to 10. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u186	Excuse me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u187	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u188	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will deliver a vote on the previous vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u189	Be registered. Mrs. Members, let us now vote on draft resolution No 729 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government defend with the institutions of the European Union the non-discrimination of the remuneration of persons with disabilities in projects financed by Community funds ( CDS-PP ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against the PS and abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 730 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government extend the National Early Childhood Intervention System ( SNIPI) for children up to 10 years or until the end of 1. the basic education cycle and flexibility and agile its structure ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 731 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, with a view to operationalizing and implementing the Centre for Care, Monitoring and Social Rehabilitation for Persons with Disabilities and Disabilities, establish and determine, in contracts to be concluded with the institutions, a user/month value that enables the establishment of a link between the services provided, the levels of care and the follow-up carried out ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and the NAP abstention.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 732 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create the guarantee plan for disabled children and young people ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 733 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create a single document demonstrating the degree of disability and disability for all circumstances of the life of the disabled person accepted in all public services ( CDS-PP ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP and PAN and votes against the CFP and the Greens.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 734 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure access to vocational training adapted to persons with disabilities and disabilities ( PCDI ), in particular to dual-certification ( level 2 ) ( vocational certification and academic equivalence to 9. the year ), in the region of Grande Lisboa ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN, the PS, the PCP and the Greens and the Abstaining of BE.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 735 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government regulate the terms and conditions for the access and exercise of the profession of personal assistant ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was taken with votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions from PS, BE, the PCP and the Greens.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 746 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote a true inclusive school, in compliance with Recommendation No 1 / 2014 of the CNE, and with the recommendations of the special education working group, established by the Office No 706 - C / 2014 ( CDS-PP ) ( the initial text was replaced at the request of the author ). Mrs. Members, the Left Block asked for the vote, first of paragraph 7, after point 8 and at the end of points 1 to 6. In this way, we shall begin by voting point 7 of draft resolution No 746/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN, the votes against the BE, the PCP and the Greens and the PS abstention.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 8. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the NAP and the PS, BE and the Greens.]] Finally, we shall proceed to the vote on points 1 to 6 of draft resolution No 746 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, the CCP and the NAP and abstentions of the PS and the Greens were adopted.]] We shall then vote on draft resolution No 747 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the study of alternative methods of exercising the right to vote by disabled citizens ( CDS-PP ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 748 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop support for entrepreneurship and self-employment for people with disabilities ( CDS-PP ). Mrs. Members, the PS requested the vote on point 2 separately. We shall therefore vote on point 2. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We turn to the vote on points 1 and 3 of draft resolution No 748/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a). [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and votes against BE, PCP and Os Verdes were adopted.]] The vote on draft resolution No 749 / XIII ( 2 ) was followed. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government encourage the establishment of the Portuguese self-representative platform for persons with disabilities until the end of 2. the term of this year ( CDS-PP ). Mrs. Members, the NAP requested the separate vote on points 1 and 2. We shall therefore first vote on point 1 of draft resolution No 749/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN, votes against the CFP and the Greens and abstentions of the PS and BE.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 2 of the same motion for a resolution. [[The vote was taken by votes to the PSD and the CDS-PP, votes against the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions to the PS and BE.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 750 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government that the value for the accumulation of disability benefit with work income is not less than the sum of the reference value of the social benefit for inclusion with the guaranteed minimum monthly remuneration ( CDS-PP ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against the PS and abstentions of the CFP and the Greens.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 751/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government reformulate support for firms employing persons with disabilities ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP and the PCP's abstention.]] We shall then vote on draft resolution No 752 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government value the activity of assisting dogs, in particular by defining a stable and continuous financial support framework ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 753 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government develop a national awareness campaign for compliance with the accessibility law ( CDS-PP ) ( title and initial text replaced at the author's request ). [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes against BE.]] Mrs. Members, let us vote on draft Regiment No 1 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Second amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic No 1 / 2007 so as to include in the public discussion obligation disability legislation. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote on two applications submitted by BE and the CFP, respectively, requesting the discharge of the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without voting for a period of 60 days of the projects of lein. 461 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Extends parental protection to parents with children with disabilities or rare disease ( BE) and 462 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates a specific preterm leave or hospital stay for newborns ( PCP ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 502 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government that persons with disabilities of a disability rate equal to or greater than 60 % be included in the protocol concluded between the INR and the CP in order to access the 25 % discount on tariffs ( BE ). [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 503 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by eliminating the sustainability factor applicable to disability pensions converted into old-age pensions ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 506 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that light passenger or mixed motor vehicles for the use of persons with disabilities be included in Class 1 for the purposes of tolls ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and PSD abstentions.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 721 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Classification of mobility scooters to allow them access to passenger transport ( The Greens ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from the PS and PS.]] We shall now vote on a request by the NAP for a discharge to the Committee on Education and Science, without a 45-day vote of draft resolution No 754 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a Portuguese Gestive Interpreter Exchange in order to ensure the accessibility of public services ( PAN ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, let us vote on draft resolution No 755 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, in the context of the revision of Decree-Law No 3 / 2008 of 7 January, promote inclusive school in a comprehensive manner ( BE) ( initial text replaced by the author's request ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and with abstentions from the PS and PS.]] With regard to draft resolution No 758 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Extension of the service of the balconies of inclusion and recognition of all evidence of disability and disability, improving the conditions of access to them ( PCP ), the PS requests a separate vote of points 1 and 2 and then points 3 and 4. Let us then vote on points 1 and 2 of the draft resolution. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the PSD were adopted.]] We shall proceed to the vote on points 3 and 4 of draft resolution No 758/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a). [[Subject to vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the PSD.]] We moved on to draft resolution No 759 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Valuation of vocational training for persons with disabilities ( CFP ), for which the PS calls for the autonomous vote of paragraph 2. We shall therefore vote on point 2. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall vote on points 1, 3 and 4 of draft resolution No 759 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the PSD were adopted.]] With regard to draft resolution No 760 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strengthening the responses of the National Early Intervention System ( CFP ), the PS calls for the vote on point 6 first and then on points 1 to 5. Let us therefore vote on point 6 of the draft resolution. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] Let us now vote points 1 to 5 of draft resolution No 760 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the PSD were adopted.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u190	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u191	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u192	Mr President, it is to announce that the CFP will deliver a statement of vote on all the draft resolutions, which have been voted on in the context of disability.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u193	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, let us now vote on two requests, submitted by the authors of the diplomas, on the basis of a discharge to the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without voting, for a period of 60 days, of the projects of lein. 458 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Gives the nature of the executive title to the decisions condemning the ACT and amends the procedural regime applicable to labour and social security counter-ordinations by amending Law No 107 / 2009 of 14 September ( PCP ) and 105 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — It deepens the legal regime of the special action for the recognition of the existence of a contract of employment established by Law No 63 / 2013 of 27 August and extends the procedural mechanisms for combating « false green receipts» and all forms of undeclared work, including false stages and false voluntary ( BE ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We shall now proceed to the overall vote on motion for a resolution No 43/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the European agreement on persons intervening in proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights, open for signature in Strasbourg, on 5 March 1996. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the CDS-PP and the NAP and with abstains from BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 736 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Acquisition of motor vehicles for the provision of household care in primary health care ( BE). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we turn to draft resolution No 428 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake commitments with the timing of the construction and qualification of the road network of the Beja district, according to the needs of the population and economic agents of the region ( CFP ), for which the PS requested the autonomous vote of paragraph 6. So let us first vote on point 6 of the draft resolution. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We turn to the vote on points 1 to 5 of draft resolution No 428 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a). [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS were adopted.]] As regards draft resolution No 431 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Defends the valuation of the Alentejo railway line and the promotion of rail mobility in the Beja district ( PCP ), the PS requested the vote in three blocks : first, points 1, 2 and 5, then point 3 and finally point 4. We shall then proceed to the vote on points 1, 2 and 5. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS were adopted.]] We shall vote on point 3 of the draft resolution. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We shall vote on point 4 of draft resolution No 431 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 548 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — São Bento Station ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, the PS, CDS-PP and votes in favour of BE, the CCP, the Greens and the NAP were rejected with votes against the PS, PS, CDS-PP.]] We will vote for Bill No. 594 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — by defending and valuing the station of São Bento ( Porto ) ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, the PS, CDS-PP and votes in favour of BE, the CCP, the Greens and the NAP were rejected with votes against the PS, PS, CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 627 / XII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government include a specific point on the agenda of the next Luso-Spanish Summit on the Almaraz nuclear power plant, as well as the need for its closure ( PSD ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the PS deputy Helena Roseta and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u194	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u195	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u196	Mr President, to say that the Socialist Party's parliamentary group will present a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-24.u197	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We move on to the overall final vote of the final text presented by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 22 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — The second amendment to Law No 7 / 2007 of 5 February 2007 establishing the Citizenship Card and governing its issue and use, to the first amendment to Law No 37 / 2014 of 26 June 2014 establishing an alternative and voluntary system for the authentication of citizens at the portals and websites of the Public Administration called the Digital Mobile Key and to the sixth amendment to Decree-Law No 83 / 2000 of 11 May approving the legal regime for the granting and issuing of passports. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] Let us now vote in a comprehensive final vote on the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on the proposal for a law No 43/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Approves the scheme for the professional valuation of workers in public functions and to the projects of lein. 74 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Revokes the legal regime for retraining workers in public functions ( CFP ) and 93 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Revok the requalification scheme ( BE). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, paragraphs 45 to 56 of the Journal are hereby approved for plenary meetings of 1, 2, 3, 8, 9, 10, 15, 16, 17, 22, 23 and 24 February 2017. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it remains to inform me that the next plenary meeting will take place on Wednesday, 29 March, with the following agenda: political statements; joint assessment of petitions Nos 13 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — They request the amendment of the General Law on Public Works ( Article 2 ). o ), in order to be excluded from its scope staff with police functions of the Judicial Police [ Trade Union Association of Criminal Investigation Officers of the Judicial Police ( ASFIC-PJ ) ) and 99 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — They request the exclusion of the elements of the research and surveillance career of the Foreign and Border Service from the scope of the General Law on Public Works ( LGTFP) ( Union of the Research and Monitoring Career of the Foreign and Border Service ) ; and assessment of petition No 165 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — They request that the Portuguese Air Force return to combat directly the scourge of fires in the Portuguese forests ( Jorge Manuel dos Santos Pereira and others). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 34 minutes.]]
