ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 3 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. Before we get to the agenda, Mr Duarte Pacheco will report on a report and opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the report and opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees refers to the waiver of the mandate in accordance with Articles 3. a is 7. the Statute of the Deputies of Mr António Borges ( PS ), an electoral circle of Viseu, being replaced by Mrs Lúcia Fernanda Ferreira Araújo Silva, with effect from 24 February 2017, including. The opinion is that Mr António Borges resigns and his replacement is to be admitted, since the legal requirements have been met.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[Subject to the vote, it was adopted unanimously and the absence of the NAP was recorded.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the first item on the agenda include the thematic debate required by the Left Block on public schools. Starting by congratulating the honourable Members. Members of the Government present, I give the floor to open the debate to Mrs Joana Mortágua of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : In recent years, the public school has been under fire. « Sacrificing the public school », the President of the CDS said. And we could not condemn her honesty, because that is exactly what happened: they sacrificed the public school in 1300 million and in many, many, many, many mistakes. PSD and CDS changed everything they could. They called it a requirement, but they chose the easiest way. Nuno Crato developed a cheap educational model, which corresponded to a poor view of education, based on the selection of students and the competition between schools. It is easy to cut into education when there is no pedagogical differentiation, as if all students were equal, with the same paths, the same origins, the same rhythms, the same interests, the same contexts. But this myth of homogeneity, which is not the same, of a myth, drags the danger of exclusion with it. in a class of 30 students with only one teacher, who has goals to meet, an exam at the end of the year and a position in the ranking to defend, that student who does not follow the others stays behind. « Not everyone can be doctors», Nuno Crato would say, leading us to question whether this will be, after all, the demanding school. What is, after all, the demanding curriculum? Is that the one that's so hard that most kids lead? Is it the demanding curriculum that has a math program that, as teachers now tell us in schools, has been made for only 30% of students to succeed? The demanding curriculum is the one where only those who have explanations are going through? Is it demanding a school that promotes the culture of retention and that eventually push to teaching ways without alternative students who are held? And what is a quality school? Is it a school where arts and citizenship are at the door, where Physical Education has no value and where History is reduced to minimum? Cristina Roldão is a researcher at the ISCTE — Instituto Universitário de Lisboa — who recently released a study telling us that 78 % of the students of the Portuguese-speaking PALOP (African countries) in Portugal are in the professional way. Is this the quality school? Is this the demanding school? « Not everyone can be doctors», Nuno Crato would say, ignoring that the public school exists so that everyone can choose what they want to be and that, regardless of that choice, knowledge is not a privilege of some, but a right of all as an instrument of emancipation. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The discourse of the requirement and the discourse of quality were a mistake. Transforming the school into a training center for exams is the easiest, cheaper and poorer way, it is the path that leads to the dismissal of teachers, the precariousness of employees and the degradation of the physical conditions of schools. This majority has led to this path. With the fall of the right-wing government, it also fell its Programme and the insistence on teaching cheques, which was no more than a quick way to privatize education in Portugal. When he committed himself to the valorization of public school, this majority committed themselves to the most difficult. The most difficult task of a school is to take each student as much as possible and evaluate him not because of his ability to be equal to others, but because of his ability to overcome himself and his context. A demanding school is the one that, respecting the difference, overcomes inequalities. So the opportunity is here. The question is whether, unsurpassed from the past, we are able to take on what we want for the school of the future. For this, a consensus is needed, the consensus of more public investment in education is needed, and no one can be proud of a deficit for Brussels to see, which is achieved at the cost of public school. The school we want does not have no nomad teachers, there are no precarious psychologists, there is no need for operational assistants, unjustly paid. A quality school is not compatible with classes in containers or with classrooms where it rains. A demanding school is more than a refined version of how to read and count the other times. An amputated curriculum is the first step towards an intellectually poor society. Mathematics has arguments, Biology is disputed, History has versions. Public school must have scientific quality, but if it does not promote the critical spirit, it is the knowledge that is being lost.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u6	For too many years, successive governments have forgotten that democratic consciousness is either built in school or can no longer be built. The school has to be democratic, it has to recognize and value the pedagogical autonomy of teachers, it has to promote the participation of students, it has to make the students co-producers of their education not only academic but also civic. in a quality school, there is no space for lack of transparency, there is no space for submission, there is no space for bureaucratic centralism, there is no space for positions for inertia, nor for powers that are eternal. The Block will present a project on the democratic management of schools and expects Parliament to open up for this debate. The democratic quality of schools will tell a lot about the quality of democracy in our future. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the public school has already been subjected to too many sacrifices and too many attacks, but it is not lacking in public schools who have resisted these attacks and are now in expectation of change. If it is necessary to debate, let's do it without fear, but let's not let it escape...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u7	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time. From now on, the time you spend will be discounted in the first round.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u8	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, if it is necessary, let us do so without fear, but let us not miss the opportunity to build a quality public school that is demanding with inclusion and with democracy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u9	At the opening stage of the debate, Mr Tiago Brandão Rodrigues has the floor on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We know well how our citizens give great and fair value to public school and therefore demand that we be up to the high responsibilities of those who work in and by the National Education Service. Therefore, I should just like to thank you for having scheduled this debate today, looking for citizens and their elected representatives to get to know and contribute to strengthening the quality, scope and accessibility of the Portuguese public school. The defense and consolidation of the public school are clearly visible in the government practice that we have developed and which is characterized by three fundamental concerns: to defend the public school from the attacks that have caused it to perish; to rescue the public school as the central service of the State of its citizens, focused on the efficiency of management, the quality of achievement, success, ambition and equity in inclusion; and to ensure that the National Education Service is irreversible, stable and in-depth within this legislature and create the conditions for it to continue beyond it. It was undoubtedly the long continuity in the essential of the state's commitment to public education that allowed Portugal the success in the way that it traveled in general the parameters measured by international organizations and reports, with a remarkable and dramatic exception: the previous legislation, during which education was the unfortunate chosen as the first example of public policy beyond the troika. This radical ideological option left sequels: economic inefficiency, social injustice, class failure, insufficiency of financial, human, physical and even anemic resources. These sequels of political indecency...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u11	Indecency? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u12	... led to entities of a marked non-partisan nature such as the Court of Auditors, the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) and even the European Commission, to warn of the irreversibility of the structural damage being promoted to the education sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was therefore necessary for us to make a barrier to the destruction of the public school, by consolidating those who are its essential foundations. There is a need, of course, for us to put a stop to the continuing and dramatic budgetary amputation, increasing the investment of public resources allocated to education. By naturally wanting more and certainly justifying more, education has again gained means, instead of continuing to lose them. Next, we were forced to block the obsession by turning schools into factories and students into workers and to an educational calibration based primarily on exams, as if they revealed everything and solved everything. By keeping the exams where they make sense they exist, the return to the paradigm of measurement was redeemed to education to correct what is lacking in correction, rather than to punish those who were seen as excluded from any salvation. It was also necessary for us to block the classist exclusion from the success of the National Education Service of the many who still refuse, as if its retention were the vocation of those who reprove and not an alarming symptom of the perverse iniquity and injustice of a National Education Service that has to be based on equity and social justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u14	For these, for all, we built a system of individualized tutoring and called the schools to build their strategies to achieve the success that their students deserve, that all students deserve. Finally, we were forced to make a barrier to chaos and waste: to successive chaos at the beginning of each school year, regulating and stabilising the teaching contract, not treating teachers as enemies and involving them in educational policy as partners indispensable to their realization,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Pedro Alves.]] ...and waste, complying with the Basics Law and allocating all of us' money only for the financing of association contracts that are really complementary to the coverage of the public network and that are not redundant, so that everyone's money really pays what the country needs. This dam was made here, as was also made the payment of the debts inherited from vocational education and artistic education, the strengthening of school social action and the progressive universalization of pre-school education,... [[Protests from PSD Members.]] ... the return of investment in the school building and the fulfilment of success and equity as fair and imperative currency of exchange in relation to the 12 years of schooling, to which we demand our students to devote themselves in full time. This dam was made because it was vital to put a stop to the destruction of our National Education and Public School Service, so that it can fulfil as much as its citizens expect and, in an important way, demand. That is precisely what we are committed to, and that is what we are working with and will work with, because we have to be able to educate active, critical and prepared citizens for the requirements of the present, which we already know, and for the requirements of the future, which we still do not know. We need to have clearly defined the profile of knowledge, skills and values that we require those who complete compulsory education,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u15	... because the State guarantees services that are essential to all. We need to guarantee the success of all on equal terms, regardless of whether they study in public or private schools, if they have more or less money,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u16	Minister, you've wasted your time. From now on, the time you use will be discounted at the time of the first round.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President. As I was saying, we need to ensure the success of all on equal terms, regardless of whether they study in public or private schools, that they have more or less money regardless of whether they have more or less favored educational and cultural contexts. The school is everyone's and aligns itself above, by success, not excluding those who are successful, because the state is, and must be, a person of good,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Protests]] ... I repeat, because the state is, and must be, a good person,... [[Protests by PSD MP Emídio Guerreiro.]] ... contracts with those whose dedication and professionalism the state needs with the greatest stability and predictability possible. Therefore, in less than half the legislation, we linked almost as many teachers as those linked to the entire previous legislation. We therefore repudiated and extinguished processes of humiliation, which, inevitably, were indecisive in chaotic, austere and so late contracts that they were often no longer necessary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u18	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u19	Because the state has and thinks of everyone, we rescue from the ear something that should be so obvious to all: education does not run out in compulsory education, not in children and young people. All Portuguese deserve lifelong education, as well as second and third qualification opportunities. from there the priority bet on the qualification of Portuguese. The Portuguese require of us, of all of us, a national education service that focuses on success, that guarantees equity in access, that involves and that dignifies their teachers and their non-teachers and, finally, that it is addressed to all, as well to us, to adults. It will be for the strength with which we are able to run the National Education Service that you and your colleagues are able to do. Members representing the Portuguese, finally the Portuguese judge us and they will judge us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u20	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us start the first round of the debate. To intervene, Mr Amadeu Alberbergaria of the PSD Parliamentary Group is inscribed. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Today we watch another play of the Left Block theater. They say they are concerned about public school, but they are complicit in all the degradation in the public education service that we have attended in the last 15 months. Let us be clear: the daily reality of the lack of conditions, the lack of officials, the lack of money for simple current expenses is the direct result of your government or, better, your failure to govern. Mrs. Joana Mortagua,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u22	Hello!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u23	...don't try to fool the Portuguese. These are problems created by the Block, this is your government and, well, this is the Ministry that, with the Orthodox communists, you protect. Yes, the Ministry which the Socialist Party handed over to the extreme left and to an obediently communist union leader in order to survive politically. [[PSD applause.]] Yes, this is an accusation! You used the Portuguese students as exchange currency to occupy power. The gentlemen. Are Members concerned about the lack of operational assistants? It can only be theater. You swung to the side while the Minister since February 2016 has done nothing but devalue the lacks, accuse schools and resort abusively to cleaning hours to try to hide the obvious: it was this government and not the previous one that aggravated the lack of employees.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u24	It's true! [[Protests from PS, PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u25	When, a year ago, the PSD here warned this minister that, in order to guarantee the same level of response from the public service provided, more than 2000 employees would be required than in 2015, you swung to the side. You see, in the middle of the school year, say there's no staff left? Now? They're missing, and it's the Ministry's fault they're protecting. They solve the problem that they have created and, in the next school to be made aware that they are opposition, say first how they will solve the problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u27	The gentlemen. Are Members concerned about the lack of resources and investment in public schools? But where were they when we watched the lowest public investment in the last few decades? You are complicit in the lack of school maintenance. You are complicit by slowing down the activity of the School Park, which halved the average number of schools requalified in 2016. You are complicit in the delay, the escape from the responsibility and blackmail of the government over the municipalities for the works of schools mapped to Community funds. in this « new time», all this is understandable, all this is acceptable, all this is unacceptable, because the public school is private property of the Left Block, the PCP and the Socialist Party. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS laughter.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you were very concerned about adult education, but this government is halving the number of subjects, and there is no reaction anymore. That is even acceptable for you. You were very concerned about early school leaving, but he gets worse and you pretend to believe in the alternative reality of the government, and they don't say anything. You were very concerned about the poor families, but the government has frozen the nominal value of social action support and is six months late in paying school textbooks, and it is not serious. It is not even serious that now the second calls of national examinations must be borne by families. The government gives 1 € per student for participatory budgets and takes 3 € for families. [[PSD applause.]] You were very concerned about the lack of information and today we have a minister who is the champion in the non-response to this Parliament. But that is no longer important! There is an accomplice silence for the duality of criteria of this extreme left,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u28	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u29	...a silence bought by the PS, who abandoned and ignored his own past. We saw this at the end of the external evaluation at the end of the cycles. We saw this at the end of the possibility of international certification in English. We saw that in the test for the teachers. Portuguese students significantly improve international examinations for the application of knowledge in Mathematics, Reading, Science and PISA 2015, students of 4. the year, in Mathematics, they stand in front of the Finns and what does Mr. Minister do? It announces the reduction in hours for Mathematics and Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u30	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. From now on, the time you use will be discounted in the next round. Please continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u31	The educational communities ask for stability in the curricula and what does Mr. Minister do? Changes and more changes in programs, curricula and goals. You don't want citizens thinking of their own heads;... [[PS rice, PCP and the Greens.]] ...what you want is to bring your ideology into schools. [[PSD applause.]] They are not interested in the results, they are not interested in verifying that we have improved; what is important is to reverse — point! Mrs Joana Mortágua announced that they will move forward with a project on democratic management in schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u32	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u33	in fact, what they want is to return to the old days; in fact, what they want is to shape the school to your image; in fact, what they want is to send, party and union in schools. The exercise they do here today is purely political hypocrisy, a piece of theatre. This is your government, this is your minister, these are the problems that have created. Mrs. Joana Mortagua, don't hide your hand. Take your responsibilities on behalf of your party and stop pretending. [[Congratulations from the PSD and CDS-PP Member Pedro Mota Soares.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u34	It is the turn of the PS Parliamentary Group. Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When we talk about public school, we talk about learning more, learning better, as a right of everyone. And for this, we must place the promotion of educational success at the centre of action. To this end, this government has contributed: there have never been as many teachers in schools as in this year; it is working to solve the lack of operational assistants; we are investing again in the requalification and modernization of schools; it has returned the investment in continuing teacher training; it is promoting the participation of students.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u36	It's the tape!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u37	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as much as has been done by the public school as it already does in the legislature, I want to underline a specific aspect today. The previous team of the Ministry of Education, consisting of parties that were initially skeptical about the extension of compulsory education to 12 years, complied with this enlargement but never promoted a thorough reflection, nor a clear decision on the knowledge and skills that students should acquire until the conclusion of the extended compulsory education. We must now do better on that point. On the basis of the results of the working group set up by the Government for this purpose, the « Profile of students out of compulsory education » was recently put into public discussion. The working group coordinated by Prof. Guilherme d’ Oliveira Martins, and of which were consultants, in particular, the Director of Education and Skills of the OECD and also Prof. Joaquim Azevedo, of the Portuguese Catholic University, presented a decisive document, which should enable an intelligent and integrated management of the curriculum, turned to the students of the 21st century. This is a process that has been developed with great prudence, good sense and wisdom and has already taken a year of consistent and serene reflection and dialogue. It started with an inquiry into teachers, who deserved overwhelming adherence, with tens of thousands of responses. It has counted on the active and decisive commitment of the various professional associations of teachers, who, in addition to their own knowledge and experience, have mobilized partnerships, involving, in particular, scientific societies and other experts. It is a process in which government members themselves have invested in an in-depth dialogue with parent associations, dozens of pedagogical councils, with students. The Government has thus come to respond to a recommendation from this Parliament, adopted unanimously in 2016, which called for a reflection and debate leading to a real and profound curriculum reform. I repeat: a resolution adopted unanimously by this Parliament! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u38	Hello, hello, hello!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u39	because of the crucial importance it will have for the whole learning improvement strategy, the debate, now focused on the « Profile of students out of compulsory education», will not forget the autonomy of schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u40	Well, there it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u41	If the mission of schools is to promote the best learning, this increasingly requires a local and contextualized anchorage of processes, contents. It is therefore important that the sustained construction of the autonomy of schools be stimulated, that it be given pedagogical substance and curricular to this autonomy and that it no longer turn to the old talk of talking a lot about the autonomy of schools and then refuse that autonomy in what it has of essential and that it has to do with the construction of learning, with the contents, with the integration of knowledge. It is very important that this process continues as it has been so far: focused on building consensus among professionals, seeking solutions based on the best available knowledge, in the best scientific and technical understanding, far from the small opportunistic policy, which is the opposite of true policy. We cannot talk about learning as a TV commentator, because our children and our young people deserve more because the country deserves us to deal with these serious issues with the greatest seriousness. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the commitment to promoting educational success is a matter of justice, it is a matter of equity. Those who repeat and those who abandon are always the ones who were already most disadvantaged at the start. And that's why we don't get along. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, the Socialist Party is against facilitation. It is easy to make school a machine to reproduce social inequalities, it is easy to make rankings that hide the complexity of problems. It's hard to give everyone the same opportunities and not leave anyone behind. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u42	It's just conversation!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u43	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. From now on, the time you spend will be discounted in the next round.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u44	I'm done now, Mr. President. It is easy to put on the role programmes that cannot meet or whose compliance degrades the pedagogical relationship or depends on explanations outside. It is difficult to think of an effective, integrated curriculum, oriented to the integral formation of the individual. It is easy to draw pseudo-solutions and apply them from 5 October and expect an equal measure for all to serve very different situations. Hard, but necessary, it is to work in respect for the diversity of situations, trust in schools and trust teachers to build the necessary autonomy and promote pedagogical differentiation. It is easy to make as if the scientific-humanistic profile were the real way and the other ways were second. It is difficult, but necessary, to value in the same way the various ways to complete compulsory education, also vocational education and artistic education. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why we are against facilitation, because we are for public school, without which there will be no freedom to teach and learn, without which democracy will not be complete. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u45	It is the time of Mrs Joana Mortagua of the Left Block Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in preparing for this debate, I read some interviews with Nuno Crato and I found one thing I agree with the former Minister. When asked what was the great challenge of the Ministry, whether it was to please teachers, parents or to create stability in schools, Nuno Crato replied: "The greatest challenge is to change things. That's the biggest challenge. Do not keep on seeking. ” It is the only thing I agree with Nuno Crato: change things. And the Left Block will be hit by the changes that count for the improvement of the public school. I am obliged to debate with Nuno Crato, the former Minister of Education, because the PSD does not say what comes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u47	The honourable Member has to debate with the current Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u48	The PSD does not say what it defends for public school, does not demarcate, nor does it support what happened. For example, in 2013 former Minister Nuno Crato said about special educational needs and their inclusion — now so expensive to the PSD... [[PSD protests.]] Hey! As I was saying in 2013 former Minister Nuno Crato on special educational needs and their inclusion — now so expensive to the PSD! — it said: 'They are integrated in the class, but they are not in fact. Of course, what happens is that those students belong to the class, but, given their needs, they do not live with the students of that class. It is therefore more an administrative issue than any other. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Do you agree?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u49	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u50	Is the inclusion of special educational needs an administrative matter or are they demarcate from what was the policy of Nuno Crato? [[Protests by PSD MP Pedro Alves.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u51	Sir, learn to listen!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u52	It's important to know what the PSD wants. What we realize is what the PSD doesn't want and, by irritation, you notice what the PSD is afraid of. What the PSD is afraid of is democracy in schools,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u53	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u54	... what PSD is afraid of is what teachers have to say about the programs they have implemented, what PSD is afraid of hearing students about the school they want, because it is diametrically opposite of the school that PSD imposed on them.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u56	That is what the PSD is afraid of: it is democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u57	Authorities!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u58	what the PSD is afraid of is to listen to schools that call the pedagogical staff council of the director. what the PSD is afraid of is to hear in schools that the general council elections are one party elections. what PSD is afraid of is to hear in schools that departmental elections are more complex than an election of CRESAP ( Public Administration Recruitment and Selection Board ) for a public administration leader. That's what the PSD is afraid to hear. But that's why we're going to hit each other for what's more difficult. Mr. Minister, I recognize that there is a heavy inheritance. in an interview with Nuno Crato, in 2014...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u59	But we are in 2017!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u60	... the interviewer said: "There is a lack of employees, parents demand the maintenance of schools, lack teachers and even always demand their resignation. Do not keep on seeking. ” Minister, it's a heavy inheritance, but that can't be an excuse. Investment in public school is necessary,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u61	Where is he?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u62	...it's necessary to end the precariousness of teachers, it's necessary to hire employees for public schools...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u63	Mrs Deputy, you have already exceeded your time, which will be discounted in the next round.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u64	Thank you, Mr. President. As I said, it is necessary to hire employees for public schools and, therefore, if the PSD is concerned about this situation, what you can say is how many million you think should be invested in the next education budget and we will be here to do this debate. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u65	It is the turn of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group. Mrs. Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mrs Joana Mortágua spoke about the subject of precariousness and I would like to take advantage of the ride. in the pamphlet of the Block of Left on Precautionary, it states in very large letters: « Now it is with us».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u67	We're screwed!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u68	If the Government permits me, and as the Left Block assumes itself responsible for the solution to the precariousness, I would like to address the Block because it seems to me that they are not doing a great job in this matter, now that it is with you. Let us look at two themes, the first on the linkage of teachers. Mrs Catarina Martins said in a 15-year debate on 7 December: «The teachers must be linked. All those who meet permanent needs, all those who have long-term contracts and should already be bound and not perform a cosmetic operation that only insults teachers and teachers. There are more than 20 000 teachers in this country".
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u69	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u70	Words, words!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u71	And Mr. Prime Minister agreed and even added: "No, it is not acceptable. The quality of public school would be better if teachers were not subject to this instability».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u72	Go on!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u73	What's going on out there? It is planned to link 400 teachers through the train standard and more 3000 by extraordinary competition — 3400 to 20 000...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u74	And just do the math!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u75	Applying the reasoning they usually use with us, you — Block, PCP and PS — have just fired at least 16,600 teachers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u76	Collective dismissal!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u77	Is this your contribution? But let us consider another example, now on teacher training. I would like to bring to the attention of Mrs Joana Mortágua a statement of 30 December 2016, signed by the Secretary of State Alexandra Leitão, which reads: « The Legal Regime of Continuing Training(... ) recognizes the important role of the career teacher as a trainer, since the provision of the training service requires a stop and permanent investment in its scientific and pedagogical qualification and updating. This order states that those who cooperate in the provision of this continuing training service, and I quote, ‘without any financial contribution’ —...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u78	No financial compensation!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u79	... I repeat, ‘without any financial contribution’ — the ‘Very Good’ classification is directly assigned to them. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] I well remember Mrs Catarina Martins said that, and I quote, "voluntary work is bullshit". If it is now with you, how do these things happen?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u80	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u81	What do you say? Is this your fight against the precariousness and dignity of teachers? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is certainly not the right formula to ensure the training announced and promised to teachers in our schools so that they can do tutoring or develop such active teaching methodologies within and outside the classroom. Making an order that establishes the training of teachers at the expense of the volunteer work of colleagues was already questionable, but doing so by using a muscular persuasion, basically, say: “Look, giving training is free, is your passport guaranteed for a ‘Very Good’”, ie, sorry, very bad. [[It's a shame!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u82	So now that you recognize that it is with you, tell me, Mrs Deputy: is this the contribution of the Block to the quality of public school? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u83	Madam Member, you have also exceeded time, so you will be discounted in the next round. Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Education matters are of great importance to the CFP, so we welcome today's opportunity to look at them again. I would like to begin by saying that the CFP Parliamentary Group, already in December, presented an initiative on the democratic management of schools, so this issue, at all levels of education, is very positive, as we also consider it positive that there are more voices that join the claim in this matter. We have already taken advantage of it to announce that the PCP has entered a project that repeals the foundational regime and establishes a model of democratic management in higher education, amending the RJIES (Legal Regime of Higher Education Institutions).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u85	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u86	with regard to the subject of operational assistants, it is already shaped, we recall, at the initiative of the CFP, the rule establishing a review of the ratio of these non-teachers. It is therefore necessary to comply with the State budget and to review the ratio, according to what has already been approved by this Assembly of the Republic. [[PCP applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, as a result of the policy on the right of successive governments, the public school has suffered with the uninvestment attempts of its decharacterization and mercantilization, democratic emptying, attacks on workers'rights, particularly by the PSD/CDS government. Many of the problems caused or deepened by the last government now, as always, have proposals and initiatives from the CFP, which allow the direction to be different and make a way for the public school to be valued, but which they need, Mr Minister, for the action and commitment of the government to achieve it. And the book of charges for investment in education and public school is vast: it goes through the fight against precariousness, the binding of teachers, operational assistants, the democratic management, the reduction of the number of students per class, the promotion of school success, the recovery and preservation of the school park, the response in terms of school social action. As regards the democratic management of schools, we believe that it is a matter of urgency that comes from a generalized feeling of the school community. Teachers, non-teachers, students, parents have come to defend a model of democratic government of schools based on school organs and not on the unipersonal organ of the director. The emptying of democratic participation in schools is a impoverishment of our democracy and reveals the fallacy of speech focused solely on the autonomy of schools, as it is, thus, without resources, impoverished and, without any possibility of government by the collective of the school community. The exercise of democracy must be done, encouraged and taken from schools, listening to different voices, sensibilities and experiences in college bodies, as proposed by the CFP in its bill. But there is, after all, anyone who thinks, like the PSD, that this thing of democracy should start right away by the schools that is not even a good idea!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u87	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u88	As regards the linkage of teachers, Mr Minister, it is important to take decisive and more ambitious steps to solve this problem that affects thousands of teachers who have been in a precarious and unstable situation for years, giving more and more of a response to permanent needs. For the CFP, the solution goes through the implementation of a national public competition, ordered by a graduated list based on objective and transparent criteria. Alongside this, other moments of extraordinary bonding cannot be excluded by a question of the most elementary justice for teachers, but also to respond to the effective needs of the public school. The construction and formation of the individual's integral culture is also due to the general improvement of teaching-learning conditions, among other issues, by reducing the number of students per class. This measure should be implemented from the beginning of the next school year. To conclude, the CFP will contribute, as it has done, constructively and committedly, to solutions for the valorization and dignity of the public school. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u89	Madam Member, in your case too, the time has been exceeded, so you will be discounted in the next round. Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that on the right hand side the intervention of Mr Amadeu Alberbergaria of the PSD has been deeply enlightening of the differences that separate us from the school vision. And yours, Mr President - I regret to say - is deeply retrograde and dangerous. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u91	We're going to vote. Mrs. Deputy won't go!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u92	It should be noted that in your speech, Mr President, you are almost sorry when you talk about the democratic management of schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u93	Go vote with your party!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u94	What's that about the collective organs? What is this about the participation of students and employees in school management? That's not for the gentlemen! You talk as if the arts, this sport thing, this citizenship thing was going to make students waste time, because the bulk of time is for Mathematics and for Portuguese and the rest is conversation! [[PSD protests.]] No, sir. The school must fully train students — young people and children — who are citizens, and they will be fully entitled to participate. That's what you want! Everything summarized in the exams, the evaluation... what is that of the measurement to try to understand where our schools are failing to, then, be able to improve, create policies to be able to improve? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u95	Go to vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u96	Don't! That's not with the gentlemen. But it is also no novelty, because that is the policy that you have implemented.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u97	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u98	Go to vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u99	By the way, Mr President, I shall say that your speech has been a great undoing, but a great undoing! [[PCP and PS applause.]] So, the gentlemen, who fired teachers as there is no memory in the country, who reduced the number of employees in schools — psychologists and they didn't want to talk! — do you now say that this is the top priority of our school? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u100	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u101	Look, I think so too. But, you know, Mr, I already found the same in the legislature in which they were government. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u102	Go to vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u103	Well, but there's enough talk for the PSD, because your policy we already know it and we don't want it,... [[PSD protests.]] ...and we feel that educational communities don't want it either. Mr Minister, a question that is fundamental to the learning of students is related to the conditions they have in school for this learning and, among these factors, the conditions of the school building are decisive. There are students who have classes, for years and years, in containers and, on the south bank, this is perfectly well known. Just go to Monte da Caparica or Corroios. Minister, what solutions are we going to give these educational communities and these students in particular? The second question which I would like to ask you, also concerning these conditions, is that of safety and rest of the school communities, is about asbestos. Mr Minister, what concrete answers—and I would like you to make an update on this issue—is the government giving about the removal of asbestos in schools? [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u104	I inform the honourable Member that the excessive time will be discounted in the last round. Mr. Education Minister Tiago Brandão Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all the speeches you have made. Mrs Joana Mortágua, yes, this government has received an impressive legacy with regard to public school. We had the opportunity to see Mr. Amadeu Soares Alberdaria talking about the real devil that arrives in our country, which is the bet and defense of the national education service. Every time in this House and in the media the expression « national education service» is repeated, Mr. Amadeu Soares Alberdaria, as Mrs. Heloísa Apollonia of The Greens said,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... feels that your truth turns into something that questions you, as well as everything you truly believe in, in an absolutely baffling speech, into a speech that shows us that the post-truth,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u106	Post-truth! Is that what you're talking
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u107	... the reverses and alternative truths also exist here, in Portugal, and not only on the other side of the charco. [[Protests by PSD Member Amadeu Soares Alberaria.]] It is impressive to see how different truths are built on the qualification and training of adults. Since we took possession, adult qualifications and training have experienced a real positive increase in the number of students, just as there has been a strong wager in vocational education. Mrs. Members, I would also like to talk about the noise that exists in relation to changes to the curriculum structure of basic and secondary education.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u108	What about school dropout?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u109	contrary to what is suggested, and to make it really clear, the Ministry of Education is not revoking any curriculum structure, nor doing any kind of abrupt, uncoordinated or uncontextualized changes. [[PSD protests.]] What has happened is that a true process of long-term reflection has been initiated, gradually, with a well-founded amplitude and latitude and with great openness to the whole community and which essentially aims to strengthen the integration and coherence of a true integrated profile of competences, responding to what our society really needs for the challenges of education in the twenty-first century and which, among other things, raises these issues of curriculum nature.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u110	That speech is disgusting!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u111	This is a process that is under way and which convenes the entire educational community. We have talked to professional associations, we have talked to scientific societies, we have talked to directors, we have talked to the academy, we have talked to the parents and those in charge of education, we have spoken, Mr. Amadeu Soares Albertaria, and you can repent, you can imagine, just, Mr. Members — so that they really understand that they can be participants in thinking and thinking democratically. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] We have given these same students tools to think about their school and so that their citizen sensitivity and construction as citizens can happen. What this government will not do, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, this is precisely what some of us are accused of, perhaps because of confusion, as was said here, with previous governments. [[PSD protests.]] We've been in a new government for 15 months, we've been in a new reality for 15 months, but there are Mrs. Members in this House, who remain absolutely in a previous reality, in a reality that was absolutely comfortable with them and that clearly was killing our public school. What they did was to revoke the national curriculum of basic education without having defined, because they did not believe in it, a true profile for compulsory education, which we require our students to be now 12 years old. They also extended this compulsory education without having defined any desired profile of student at the end of those same years. Therefore, we are making changes in education that are clearly built gradually and involving people, schools and all educational agents. With regard to non-teaching staff, we all know that many of our schools were absolutely impoverished with regard to operational assistants. in this legislation, we renewed 2621 contracts, transforming them...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u112	There they are! These contracts already existed!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u113	They were employment-inclusion contracts, Mr. Pedro Alves! Now contracts have another level of dignity! We have also made competitive procedures for 300 operational assistants. [[PSD protests.]] I wanted to tell you, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, and I am sure you know the State Budget Act, that this government... [[PSD Protests and PS Protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u114	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to create conditions for the Minister to be heard. Please proceed, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u115	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as I was saying, this government has already undertaken, in the State Budget Act, a commitment to review the portfolio of the ratios. We all know that this is absolutely fundamental, we all know that there are schools that meet the ratios, but still because of the many medical lows we know, what happens is that they are not enough. Until the spring of 2017, taking into account the real needs of student follow-up, in particular and in an important way, of students with special educational needs, we will work so that this portfolio of ratios can respond more effectively to our educational communities. With regard to questions relating to teaching staff, I wanted to say that we have worked in an absolutely transparent and completely open manner with trade union organisations so that at the moment, when we have not yet reached the middle of the legislature, we can have more teachers linked than at the same time in the previous government and almost the same number of teachers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u116	Almost!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u117	We also worked so that permanent links could be more waved. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to say that — and yesterday it was said here in this House, and it is very important — that we finally work towards the creation of a recruitment group for Portuguese-speaking teachers and the strengthening of conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u118	That's just for 2019!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u119	Better late than ever, sir! If you were part of a parliamentary group that supported the government, that would never happen. We all know! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u120	You don't know what you're saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u121	On the other hand, in an important way, there was also a strengthening of the mobility conditions of teachers with permanent disabilities, whether visual or motor. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I also want to say that we commit ourselves, with the teachers and organizations that defend their interests, to open new moments of extraordinary linkage in the coming years. Finally, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa spoke here about training and I want to tell her that at the moment a competition has been opened for continuing teacher training which will grant EUR 19 million for effective training in our schools. So far, Mr. Member, there was, and there was not for four years,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u122	You know perfectly well that's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u123	... a single free continuous training event for our teachers, and it is important at this time to rescue this issue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u124	It's fake! You don't know what you're saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u125	With regard to the building, and I repeat everything I have already said, we need to make clear interventions in our school, and we are doing so, Portugal 2020, with money from the State budget. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, in all the interventions now being made, is absolutely priority, and is included in all the legislation, the removal of asbestos, and we are already proceeding with that removal. What is said here about the building by the PSD Parliamentary Group can only be fruit...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u126	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u127	This is called political hypocrisy of those who have not invested in the country and who have not invested in our school for four years! It's called only political hypocrisy... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... of those who cut 70% of the works that were being done in our schools between 2011 and 2015, of those who stopped a whole requalification program of our schools, of those who, absolutely clumsy, entered into the Community funds a word that would never come out of the paper! [[PSD protests.]] It's important to say that we're working, yes, in partnership with many authorities...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u128	Chantage! Chantage! You don't know what an authority is!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u129	... of the Social Democratic Party and even with the CDS authorities to effectively do so. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u130	Before talking about transparency, answer Parliament!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u131	Look at the numbers, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u132	Mr Minister, the time you spent the most will be discounted in the next round, which will actually start with Mrs Nilza de Sena's intervention. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u133	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members: We are facing the supreme irony. The government, which has a passion for qualification, disqualifies. The government, which wanted to put people before the deficit, strangles investment. The government, which is said to be an ar auto of public school, is making public school worse. The government, which says it wants to move forward, retreats. The government, which says it wants to be transparent, hides and deceives. It is a demagogic government, a populist government that promises what it can't give and that gives with one hand what it takes with both. It is a government that lives with advertisements, misinformation, propaganda, that deceives teachers, that deceives schools, that deceives families and deceives students. And they are, the students, children and young people, who will pay the PS bill to have delivered, as payment of their political survival, a ministry to the extreme left and to a union. This is your ministry, the ministry of reversals and delays. They started this debate because they were concerned about the public school and then they turned to the opposition rather than to the Minister. This is loaded! They talk about democracy in schools and systematically run over democracy here.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u134	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u135	Authoritarian parties do not teach democracy to this bench.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u136	Well remembered! [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u137	And that's what the reality tells us, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? The reality tells us that investment in Mathematics and Portuguese was worth it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u138	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u139	The reality tells us that external evaluation at the end of cycles is worth it. The reality tells us that the requirement compensates. The reality tells us that autonomy and decentralization are fundamental.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u140	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u141	I shall conclude, Mr President. The reality tells us that the results, the good results of the PISA (Program for International Student Assessment) and TIMMS ( Trends in International Mathematics and Science Study), which were far above average, are at risk, and are at risk with your policy. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u142	Mr Ivan Gonçalves has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Today's theme is indeed of the greatest importance, because the quality public school is the greatest instrument we have at our disposal to promote an effective reduction in the inequalities of opportunities in our society. The quality public school offers all citizens the conditions to overcome the economic, social and geographical constraints that may be a barrier to their personal achievement. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when we discuss public school, we must remember, and neither we nor the Portuguese have forgotten what the right and their government have done to public school in the more than four years that ruled our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u144	Talk about dropping out of school!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u145	Calm down, Mr. Deputies! Portugal lives today in a context of recovery of the delay and de-investment that the previous Government has printed in various areas. The former government, in addition to the de-investment it printed in the various areas, also printed a baffling view of the curricula and teaching methods that underestimated the teaching of vital components for the training and growth of Portuguese students. That is not the view of the Socialist Party, nor is that the view of the current government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u146	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u147	We understand that the classroom is not only a space for teaching Portuguese and Mathematics, it is also a space for promoting the exercise full of citizenship. And we understand that this promotion should not only be done rhetorically but through a true and effective education for citizenship, to be included in the curricula taught in public school.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u148	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u149	Mr. Minister and Mr. State Secretaries are also pleased with another initiative: the creation of the participatory budget of schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u150	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u151	With this initiative, students will have the opportunity to participate in the development of a project that contributes to the effective improvement of their school, encouraging the spirit of participation of students, giving voice to their opinion and promoting conscious participation in the realization of the choices made.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u152	It's been too long, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u153	These are just examples, to which we could join the creation of the supplement to the diploma, which the Government has already announced, which demonstrate how the various aspects of our students' human training can and should be valued.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u154	I ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u155	I will now finish, Mr President. This is the public school we want to build: inclusive, democratic and plural. At the same time, we want a quality public school that helps to strengthen the qualification of Portuguese, promoting a more fair, freer and more equal society. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u156	You have the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, Mr Luís Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: It is funny to see that in the debate on public school the right now decided to speak of precariousness. It seems that the central theme to the right is to discuss precariousness. So we discussed precariousness. Only the governments on the right, over the past four years, have placed 15 000... [[PSD protests.]] Calm down, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! I know you are. Members, in general, are in the backseats of the background making noise, but responsibility, now, is another, we need to solve the problems of public school. Therefore, less noise and more discussion of alternatives. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u158	The right-wing government has put 15,782 unemployed people to work in schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u159	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u160	And now the right comes to say: "Well, the problem of precariousness is with the Left Block! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Of course! It was the Left Block that put the subject of precariousness on the table...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u161	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u162	... and the diagnosis in which this parliamentary majority is working, along with the government, is exactly to solve the problems the right would want to hide from the country and the Portuguese. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Therefore, the little lady that now needs to solve the problems of precariousness...! Of course! Step one was precisely to put on the table and the public what the right wanted to hide for four years of disastrous governance for public school and public services. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u163	So we are not talking only about the question of precariousness. You've forgotten, ladies and gentlemen. Right-wingers, who left teachers without a salary in artistic education?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u164	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u165	They left teachers without wages in artistic education!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u166	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u167	We were talking about hundreds of teachers who taught thousands of students all over the country, who simply decided not to pay wages.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u168	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u169	You've forgotten!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u170	They decided not to pay wages! We understand the difficulty of the right in this debate, but it is difficult to forget the heritage that you have left over the past four years: precariousness and destruction of the public education service. More: you have made a board of all that was not the will of Minister Nuno Crato or the will of the right-wing parliamentary majority,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u171	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u172	...but we will be here to strengthen and solve the problem of democracy in schools. The question of precariousness, yes, Mrs Deputies, is with us, and we are going to solve it, contrary to what you did right. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u173	Mrs Ilda Araújo Novo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u174	Mr President, Members of the Government, Mrs and Mrs. Members: As regards public school, or the state of it, about the start of the second period, defined as highly positive, in the words of the Minister, on 3 January, and perhaps thinking of the disturbances resulting from the already announced strike of non-teachers, it is important to remember that Mr. Minister, generously, then promised a few thousand hours to schools, so that they could hire operational assistants to meet any needs. I also said at the time that the Minister was also working to monitor and supply possible needs. I should like to make a point here: unless it is due respect, it seems to me that the Minister or, rather, the team that the Minister for Protection is just monitoring and mapping since he has entered office. It is only in this way that it can be explained that on 2 February it continues to affirm and admit the need to strengthen non-teaching staff in schools, this being done because of medical discharges. He also said that, technically and legally, our schools have the operational assistants they should have. That's amazing! Because, in terms of casualties, there must be an epidemic unknown to fattening by schools in the country. It is, of course, that there are casualties, it is also undeniable that they are not of a permanent nature, and hence that, in the end, reality is imposed. And the reality shows that decisions with foreseeable consequences, such as those resulting from the reduction in the working hours of employees, generated increased needs, although the 2600 employees previously hired by the PSD / CDS government. The reality is that the reduction would have to be compensated with more employees, who, despite requests, have not been made available and therefore continue without being made available. It is also part of reality the announcement of the recruitment of more than 300 employees, which is reported last October, I repeat, October. But still yesterday in this Chamber, Mr Porfirio Silva, of the PS, who seems to be regarded as the real owner of the operational assistants concerned, accused the PSD and the CDS of not remembering anything that happened in the past. It seems to know more that the Minister himself, for he said - and I quote - about the operational assistants, the following: "This government has mobilized the necessary financial resources to hire 300 operational assistants. He defined the priorities by taking them to schools below the ratio (...). It is being implemented, it is being implemented by the schools». But, then, is the reality that the so-called placement of the 300 staff announced in October is still taking place? Oh, my God! Since October, when are we already at the end of February? Oh, my God! Does this process end before the end of the academic year? After all, are there, or not, operational assistants in schools who, technically and legally, schools should have? Mr President, did he say 'yes' or did he say 'no anymore'? Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The reality is that in public school there is a lack of employees. The reality is that services only work thanks to the goodwill and availability of employees, who come to abdicate their lunch and rest hours. And still today we have news of parents paying school security guards! in respect of the operational assistants, this, yes, is the reality of the public school, Mr Minister. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u175	Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the contribution of the CFP, several measures were adopted in the State budget whose degree of realisation it is important to understand. The de-investment in public school, carried out by successive governments, particularly the PSD/CDS government, more committed to promoting private school and its employers, has led to a reality that creates constraints on the functioning of schools, such as the lack of operational assistants. On a proposal from the CFP, a standard was adopted in the State Budget which provides for the revision of the criteria and the formula of calculation for the determination of the ratio of operational assistants, taking into account, inter alia, the socio-economic environment, the age of workers and the degree of disability, students with special educational needs and the size of schools, in order to overcome the widespread lack of these fundamental workers for the quality of public school. This is a long-defined measure by the CFP already contained in the law; it is up to the government to implement it. Mr Minister, what measures have already been taken, in particular, to comply with this rule? Mr Minister, there is still a need for political measures to put an end to the chronic lack of staff and to the systematic and illegal use of precarious recruitment. In 2016, around 2600 full-time workers and about 1200 part-time workers were hired in 2016 to fill a full-time place. There are still workers with employment-inclusion contracts, without which at present schools would not work. We are therefore faced with an unacceptable precarious situation that needs to be eliminated — in fact, there have already been proposals made by the CFP in the State budget. For when, Minister, is this the end? Mr Minister, on the replacement of study visits at the level of the social action of steps A and B, proposed by the CFP, correcting the deep injustice and inequality of the responsibility of the previous government, have already been given guidelines? The other question has to do with the delay in paying the parents of school textbooks. Minister, you have already been given guidelines...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u177	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u178	I will now finish, Mr President. Mr Minister, have school guidance been given in order to implement this measure? Is there any delay in paying school textbooks to parents? Finally, throughout the country, there are schools in a deplorable state that urgently lack urgent work.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u179	You really have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u180	I'm done, Mr. President. Mr Minister, the Government cannot resign itself from its responsibilities, the Government cannot deny the investment necessary to respond to these demanding shortcomings. For the CFP, the Government must give a comprehensive, equal and balanced response to all these schools. [[Congratulations from the PCP and PS MP Ivan Gonçalves.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u181	Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u182	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members: I think the right, the PSD and the CDS are discrediting themselves when they come with a conversation radically different from the action they had when they were in government. I think people realize that what you are defending is what you were doing when you were in government, but today you have a lot of talk to try to please those who have been deeply displeased with the concrete effects of your policies, because they were the concrete victims of these policies. On precariousness, it was not by chance that the Greens placed in the Joint Position, which they signed with the Socialist Party, the fight against precariousness. in the previous legislation, in which you were a government, we said the fight against precariousness was fundamental—and we continue to say and act in this direction—and, in the area of education, where stability is a prerequisite for success, it is indeed decisive. So, Minister, I would like to ask two very specific questions. Right now, Mr Minister, in his reply to the questions put in the first round, he said that there will be new moments of extraordinary linkage of teachers, and I think that teachers deserve to know more. Now there's 3000, but when are these new moments of extraordinary linkage of teachers? I believe that teachers deserve at least one perspective on this issue. On the other hand, I would like to understand the concern and action of the Ministry regarding school psychologists. We know that the ratio is far from what would be, even acceptable, and therefore I would like to know what steps the Ministry is taking in the direction of progressively approaching this relatively acceptable ratio of levels. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u183	For an intervention, Mr. Secretary of State of Education João Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u184	Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to comment on some aspects. With regard to Mrs Nilza de Sena, I should like to say that I agree with you when she says that the concept of evaluation is indeed important. But there is no important assessment if it is not done in a serious and rigorous manner and the external evaluation passes precisely by having serious and rigorous evaluation instruments. When we are serious and rigorous, we do not omit data, nor do we make partial assessments. When speaking about PISA and when riding the PISA, omits data, omits the consistency of the progression of PISA, omits, as has already been shown by several, who are the students who participated in the PISA. They are not the students of the goals, they are not the students who took 4. the year, but that doesn't matter. The PSD, when it repeatedly speaks of TIMSS ( Trends in International Maths and Science Study ), forgets that TIMSS covered two disciplines, never speaks of the results of TIMSS in Sciences, where Portugal lowered nine positions. That suddenly disappears from the speech, because he's not serious. Evaluation is about doing what you didn't do. What you did was to revoke programmes that were in force, without listening to anyone. Leiam! Report, Mrs Deputy, the office of Minister Nuno Crato for the repeal of the national curriculum of basic education. He has to be studied. [[P.S.'s applause.]] How can the preamble be transformed into a newspaper opinion paper or into a participation in the Inclined Plan program? Oh, my God! This is not serious, not part of evaluation, not part of scientific knowledge. In fact, what makes the PSD impression is that we are complying with a recommendation from the Assembly of the Republic, adopted unanimously, as Mr Porfirio Silva said, to have an extended debate on the curriculum. It is that we are listening to everyone, because the goals of Portuguese and Mathematics have been approved without listening to anyone. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the other hand, the one who manifested himself came to be insulted. Consult the former president of the Portuguese Association of Linguistics and ask him for the response he received from the team responsible for the Portuguese goals to a scientific opinion. He was insulted! For the PSD, the concept of participation in the construction of a curriculum is not to listen, it is to proceed in an autistic manner and resort to insult when it is not right. So when we heighten the evaluation, it's important to be serious, to be strict,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u185	If they are strict, respond to Parliament!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u186	...have data, listen to everyone and build on top of participation. There is much more than TIMSS and PISA (Program for International Student Assessment), there are data about obesity, there are data about science, there are data about expressions, and these data also exist. And what have you guys done? They linked the expressions to the background, relegated Physical Education to a curriculum enrichment activity and did not worry about the fact that there are Physical Education classes that take 15 minutes today. This is not serious, this is not an integrated look on the curriculum and, above all, it is absolutely contradictory to those who advocate the wonders of evaluation, because it resorts to the evaluation to evaluate everything except to evaluate itself. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u187	You have the floor, on behalf of the Government, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Education, Alexandra Leitão.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u188	Mr President, I will mention three or four things very quickly. First: social action at school. It is already under discussion, the Government Portal has already announced the new office on social action at school, which will include the payment of study visits, something that the previous Ministry had withdrawn,... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u189	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u190	...and a third step of school social action. With regard to the delay in paying the manuals, what we have is a delay in reporting, in some cases, schools, and that is why it has not yet been paid.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u191	Now, it's school's fault!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u192	No, it's not school's fault, though it's normal, but it's a small number of schools. For teachers, the recruitment group of Portuguese gestual language teachers will be created for the first time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u193	That's just for 2018!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u194	It's for 2018, but you guys were there four years and didn't. [[P.S., BE, and PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u195	It's only for 2018!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u196	It will be for 2018 / 2019! It will be for the school year 2018 / 2019! The school year begins in September, Mr Deputy! The portfolio of the ratio of the operational assistants is being prepared, according to the indications which, in part, are contained in the budget law, but also taking into account, of course, the improvement of the ratio that the previous government has left us. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For teachers, more than 500 teachers on school access promotion plan are in schools. They're in schools! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] As for the linkage of teachers, we will link in 2017 3400 teachers. VV. Ex.s linked in four years 4200. [[P.S.'s applause.]] with regard to new contracting times, new contracting times will be considered annually. for the first time, in four years, there will be open vacancies from the group and school framework. I repeat : for the first time, in four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the autonomy of schools, the 300 operational assistants who are being recruited are recruited by schools in accordance with their competition and selection rules. This is giving autonomy to schools. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Investment in public schools is 180 million for investment. If you want, I can give you the list of each investment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u197	We've been asking for it for a long time and they haven't given it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u198	Do not mention this, because between 2012 and 2015 investment in public schools has been reduced by 80 %! Have a little smell! [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to artistic education, for the first time from five years to here, the payment of artistic education is not only in the day as it is anticipated one month. [[P.S.'s applause.]] for the English recruitment group of 1. the cycle, we are working on the certification of the professionalization of teachers of the recruitment group 120. As for free manuals, I must say that they are already in schools from the beginning. Would you like more data? Do you need more data? [[P.S., BE, PCP and Os Verdes.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u199	Go make cheeses at the Rabbit Steps.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u200	Mrs. Members, we have reached the end of the thematic debate required by BE on public school. We move on to the second point of our agenda, which consists of the general discussion of the projects of lein.o 391 / XII ( 2. ( a ) — Change the General Table of Seal Tax to eliminate the taxation of card based payment transactions ( CDS-PP ), 396 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Clarifies the holder of economic interest in the rates for card-based payment operations ( amendment to the Seal Tax Code approved by Law No 150 / 99 of 11 September ) ( PS ), 404 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — It makes it clear that the charge of seal tax on commissions charged to traders falls on the financial system ( CFP ) and 410 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Ensure that the seal tax affecting rates charged by card-based payment operations falls on the financial institutions ( amendment to the Seal Tax Code as approved by Law No 150 / 99 of 11 September ) ( BE ). For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today is an excellent day to correct a mess that the PS, the Left Block and the PCP have resolved to do and to eliminate, once, a very poorly thoughted tax that they have decided to invent in the 2016 Budget. The subject is very simple and very easy to understand. The PS had the idea, supported by the Left Block and the PCP, to tax what is charged to traders every time any of us, or any of their customers, make a payment on the automatic payment terminals, when it is made, so to speak, a multibank payment. The PS, when in opposition, was concerned and wanted to regulate the commissions that financial entities charged to traders. When he got to power he didn't want to be regular anymore, he just wanted to tax. And he's taxed! The CDS repeatedly asked questions and raised this question in the 2016 State Budget and we oscillated between two attitudes: or they did not respond, they realized that nothing was happening; or they said that this tax was for financial entities and not for traders. A year ago it was what you saw, the merchants began to be warned that they would start paying more for each payment. Well, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, read your proposals, the appeal I make here is this: do not make traders lose another year, do not start the whole process again, for now, the financial institutions, instead of calling it tax, simply tell the traders that payments have increased. There is only one way to solve this problem, which is to eliminate this tax, which, in fact, has no reason to be. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u202	For an intervention, Mr Ricardo Leon has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PS Parliamentary Group, with this draft law, aims to unequivocally clarify the holder of economic interest, depending on the nature of the financial operation developed, in particular by specifying that in the committees due to financial operations the holder of economic interest should be the beneficiary entity of that committee. It is also the understanding of the PS Parliamentary Group that the use of card-based payment operations, not through cash, brings various advantages to both traders and consumers. thus, it is necessary to correct a misuse, or a misunderstanding, of the existing legal diploma by the financial system. It is therefore equally clear to everyone that the intention was to charge the seal tax to the financial system and thus, with this amendment, so that there is no doubt about the law, much less about the real intention of the PS, and also about the main concerns, legitimate ones, of associations representing the trade and services sector. On the other hand, Mr President, I do not wish to say clearly that here too, we do not see the cassette which the right has so often claimed, that with one hand it is taken and with another hand it is given, because here, as in so many other matters, we remember that the PS with one hand has fallen VAT (tax on value added) from the restoration to the trade sector...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u204	Very well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u205	to the trade sector? Oh, my God! Do the shoes now pay VAT from the restaurant? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u206	... and with the other hand, now unequivocally clarify that this seal tax must be impacted on the financial system and not on the trade and services sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u207	Mr Paulo Sá of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u208	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill that the PCP brings today the debate ensures that the seal tax due to card-based payment operations is paid by the financial institutions that provide automatic payment terminals rather than by traders and service providers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u209	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u210	This is a measure that defends micro, small and medium-sized enterprises from the abuse of the financial system. This is part of a broader package of measures submitted by the CFP to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, with a view to reducing the tax burden and simplifying tax obligations, facilitating access to finance, reducing production costs associated with electricity and fuels, telecommunications and transport. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u211	Measures that micro, small and medium-sized enterprises need to overcome their problems, problems that afflict them, to ensure the development of their activity and job creation. Mr. President and Mr. Members, when, in the debate of the State Budget for 2016, clarification was made of a statement in the General Table of the Seal Tax to ensure that commissions charged by the use of automatic payment terminals paid seal taxes, the legislator's intention was that this tax should fall on banks and managers of the electronic payment system and not on traders. However, the managing entity of the automatic payment terminals, contrary to the legislator's intentions, transferred the seal tax charge to the users of those terminals, adding the 4 % of this tax to the rate charged by the service provision. Currently, much of the commercial transactions are realized using virtual money, implying the existence of electronic means of payment made available and controlled by credit institutions. This is a benefit for companies that provide electronic means of payment to their customers, but also a clear benefit to banks, which, by abusing the tremendous differences in negotiating power and existing information, charge their customers excessive and often undue values for the provision of the various banking services. in this framework, where bank customers, whether private or small, are always sacrificed by the voracity of credit institutions, self-regulation is not enough, as some defend. Active action by the legislator is essential to prevent abuse. This is exactly the objective of the PCP bill : to protect bank customers—in this case, traders who use automatic payment terminals—from the abusive attitude of credit institutions, ensuring that the charge with the seal tax falls on these institutions and not on the traders. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u212	Mr Paulino Ascenção has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The seal tax on commissions charged to payments made with multi-bank cards, on automatic payment terminals, is a responsibility of the financial institutions and not of traders, and they are being unduly impacted. We bring here a solution that meets the concerns of the representative associations of these same traders. A solution clarifying the rules and responsibility of the various parties, specifically that of the financial institutions. The CDS, with the excuse of protecting the interests of small traders, wants to exempt the financial institutions from this rate, this seal tax, and is always available to relieve the taxation of large companies, of large interests, and to that end always counts with the help of the PSD. The CDS comes with the argument that it is useless to try to tighten the rules because they always have the ability to escape, from around.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u214	If I had legislated well for the first time, we would not be correcting now!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u215	The CDS is always next to the great interests either to grant tax bills, such as the supercredit to investment, which last week was discussed here, either to close the eyes to the existence of offshores and the transfers that are made there without any control, such as the reality that now came to the public and that occurred during the previous government. on our part, we are not intimidated by economic power, we do not allow ourselves to be conditioned by those who have great market power and do not give up demanding greater tax justice, to lay down the responsibilities on whom it should and to demand that the competent authorities be as rigorous as possible to enforce the law. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u216	Mr Carlos Santos Silva has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u217	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are before the discussion of a topic related to the rates and taxes of the Socialist Party, created in the State Budget for 2016, with a view to the realization of a design that characterized this same Budget:...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u218	Move down the deficit!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u219	... a huge « tax increase », as proved in the fiscal burden from 2015 to 2016, following the « wrong line » of « one hand to take with the other ». Reduces direct taxes to increase indirect taxes. The government, which announced the end of austerity, beats a new record of tax collection without troika: more EUR 1000 million of tax burden. Clear consequences of this policy: we had a slowdown in the economy by 2015 and in view of what was originally planned in the State Budget. For PS, indirect taxes are not part of the tax burden, but Portuguese paid more taxes in 2016 than in 2015 and 2014. The tax burden has increased! Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PS and the Government may come to clarify, create interpretative rules of fees to be applied, cover of avulva legislation, such as the one they want to create, but it is not interpretative standards that we are talking about, it is an increase of austerity over the Portuguese. It will not be for the reason to say that, now, the seal tax on card transactions is paid by the banks, because, of course, the banks will impact the service price on traders and traders on consumers. The government thought it would create a new tax and the Portuguese didn't realize that this would go unnoticed. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u220	But the Portuguese, in this case the merchants, quickly realized this attempt to deceive. And you know why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? It is that, in ancient times, when the Portuguese paid stamp taxes, they had to fill the blue paper sheet with 25 lines and, therefore, they realized. at this moment, with the dematerialization of these important documents, Mr. Members of the Socialist Party felt that the Portuguese did not realize this. However, the Portuguese are quite attentive. But this didn't happen just here, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it happened in the IMI (municipal property tax) of the sun, it happened in the IMI of the views, it happened in the bullets, it happened in the fuel scandal, it happened in everything, in the sugared products and in many more. It is strange, because Mário Centeno told us that an economic model full of virtues was based on growth through consumption. It wasn't just rhetoric, for sure! So, the gentlemen. Deputies have resolved to bring austerity back to the country. For the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, what was important was to raise EUR 1000 million. Your purpose was clear: at the beginning the recipe is collected, trying for no one to find out; in the front, if anyone gives for it, an interpretative standard is created. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] The proof that your will was just the tax draw is that they are creating an interpretive rule only for some Portuguese. by changing the philosophy of the application of the seal tax, Mrs. Members of the majority, will they also change the economic interest when the Portuguese pay their credit to housing or hire a consumer credit? Oh, my God! Will the banks also pay that seal tax or, again, will they act in a discretionary manner, protecting traders but not consumers? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u221	He has already exceeded his time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u222	I will finish, Mr. President. The question you are asking is this, sirs. Members of the Socialist Party: do they do this for all or will they continue to do just for some? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u223	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will begin the final round of interventions, following the order contrary to the presentation of the bills. You have the floor, first of all, Mr Paulo Sá.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u224	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in this debate, what is the position of the PSD and the CDS on the tax burden of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises? The PSD does not even try to cover up, either that the seal tax due to card-based payment operations is paid by traders and service providers. Paraphrasing former Prime Minister Pedro Passos Coelho, says the PSD « to fuck small businesses, what is needed is to protect the big capital ».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u225	Good paraphrase!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u226	The CDS, for its part, adopts a more hidden stance, as has been usual. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Understanding that today we will adopt a measure ensuring that the seal tax charges will fall on the banks, it is urgent to propose the elimination of this tax.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u227	No, no, the gentlemen have come back!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u228	For the CDS, if this tax has to fall on the big capital, then it is better to end taxation. One and the other, PSD and CDS, reveal with crystal clear transparency their tax policy options: favouring large capital, even if that means crushing small businesses.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u229	Exactly! That's what they're still defending!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u230	That's what they did when they were in the government, that's what they're still defending, that's your class choice. from the PCP, we will continue to propose measures to support micro, small and medium-sized enterprises,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u231	You have already exceeded your time, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u232	...knowing that, for that, you cannot count on either the PSD or the CDS. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u233	Mr Carlos Pereira has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the weeks before this discussion, Mrs Cecilia Meireles spoke often to the social communication and said that her proposal would defend and protect families. Now, it seems I have heard that the CDS proposal to protect and defend families is to exempt the tax bank. That's your proposal! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u235	In this regard, the PSD was a little smarter and did not present any proposal, because it was ashamed to defend families by exempting the bank from paying taxes, in fact it would be an extraordinary tragedy, Mrs Cecilia Meireles. The second note I would like to mention has to do with what is happening in this House with the CDS, which is user-friendly and will be presenting proposals for a review of the budget debate. [[Protests by CDS Member Pedro Mota Soares.]] Madam Member, we have already made the budgetary debate. That's already done! I understand that you are. Right-wing, PSD and CDS members have been accustomed, over these four years, to making, year by year, remedial budget discussions. Probably by this time, we were already discussing another rectification. But that's not what we're doing, Your Honor! What the honourable Member is presenting in this House is a proposal that violates the labour law, which violates a budgetary framework law.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u236	Look, go read it! Read it, read it, don't say nonsense!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u237	This is obviously a subterfuge not to say what you want to do, which is to exempt the bank and not protect the families, as you say. Third note, which seems very important to me: the honourable Member, in her speech, wants to pass the message that this clarification of the law that the PS, the Left Block and the PCP want to do does not work, will have no effect. Mrs. Member, where did the CDS and the right address stop on the importance of financial supervision? Oh, my God! Financial supervision is also important in these areas, and it is also important in relation to electronic means.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u238	There you go! And what is Elisa Ferreira doing? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u239	What the honourable Member is doing is putting in the box a fundamental aspect, which is that of financial supervision is not acting in accordance with this matter. Fourth note:...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u240	He has already exceeded his time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u241	I'm done now, Mr. President. Fourth note: what the PS wants to do is, I repeat, clarify the law, ensure that it is the financial system that pays and frees the real economy from a tax that was not actually required. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u242	Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u243	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, there are times when I believe that the present majority completely loses the shame. Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, then. Members came here in 2016 — in this budgetary debate that Mr Carlos Pereira spoke, one year ago, in February 2016 — and said, by the voice of Mário Centeno, in fact, here I have the newspaper news: « Bank pays higher stamp tax on cards ». That's what you've been telling people. You've been fooling people!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u244	And you agree or not? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u245	Mr President, would you like me to show you the letters that all traders have received with the increase in taxes you have made? Oh, my God! That Mr. Paulo Sá has done, that Mr. Paulino Ascenção has done, that Mr.... do you want me to tell you? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Have shame! It is because you now come, with an angelic air, to say: "Ah, but our intention was not that." If your intention wasn't that, then why did you do it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u246	But do you want the bank to pay or not? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u247	You are not happy to legislate once again, and are preparing to legislate twice.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u248	But do you want the bank to pay or not? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u249	I am going to read to you what Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, Rocha Andrade — you know who he is — about this moment when you have been deceiving people: 'Of course, the State has never...' — they know what it means 'never', Mr. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! — '...controls how economic operators impact taxes'.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u250	Financial supervisor! Banco de Portugal!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u251	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, within a year, you will be here, with a seraphic air, saying: "No, no, this was for the financial sector. We do not control it is how the financial sector affects its costs ».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u252	The CDS wants the bank to pay or not? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u253	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if you want the bank to pay, then you propose an increase in the fees for the financial sector. If you propose this, if you propose to tax the financial system, we will be here! But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, why are the merchants making noise? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u254	You don't want the bank paying taxes!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u255	Mr Carlos Pereira says: "no, no, this is a matter of supervision. So now the CDS doesn't care anymore? Oh, my God! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” I'd like to tell you that the CDS is very concerned and even I ask you: what is your co-religionary Elisa Ferreira,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u256	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u257	... what you have appointed to Banco de Portugal, are you doing? Oh, my God! If it works so well, then why is there a problem? Oh, my God! [[PS protests.]] Be rested that we will often repeat this question, but, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is only one way to withdraw this charge that you have created for traders,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u258	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u259	... which is to approve today the CDS project.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u260	You don't want the bank paying!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u261	And the gentlemen are hypocrites,... [[PS and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u262	Don't you know where he is? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u263	...because if they wanted to tax the bank, they would do it - instead of proposing taxes for the traders. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u264	Mrs. Members, we have reached the end of the joint debate, in general, of the projects of lein.o 391 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), 396 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), 404 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and 410 / XIII ( 2. ( a). We move on to the third point of our agenda, which is from the joint assessment of Decree-Law No 82 / 2016 of 28 November, which determines the decentralization, partial and temporary, of the competences of the transport authority, of the State to the Metropolitan Area of Porto, concerning the public passenger transport service operated by the Corporation for Collective Transport of Porto, SA ( STCP ), and the decentralization, part and temporary, of the operational management of the STCP[ parliamentary assessment No 28 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) ( PCP ) ) and Decree-Law No 86 - D / 2016 of 30 December, which transfers to the municipality of Lisbon the ownership and management of Carris [ Parliamentary assessment No 31 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) ( PCP ) ]. For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u265	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: Allow me, first of all, to greet the workers and users of the transports here present in the galleries, and reaffirm the solidarity of the CFP with its struggle. The debate we want to have on this point is a serious and objective debate on the issues that really matter to the people and workers of Carris and STCP. We want to discuss these two Decrees-Laws and propose concrete solutions and answers to the problems identified. We want to contribute to safeguarding the public character of these companies, to defending their workers' rights and to promoting public service with better transport, at fairer and more attractive prices, effectively at the service of the people. We propose a safeguard rule against the privatisation of Carris which, in the event of total or partial alienation of the company, makes it revert to the State. We propose the protection of the rights of workers of STCP and Carris by safeguarding collective bargaining and allowing them to be extended to workers who do not have it today, particularly in the companies involved. We propose the defence of the public service of collective transport, the full integration of these companies into metropolitan transport systems, the definition of fairer and more attractive prices. We propose the involvement and effective articulation with the various municipalities, which have to have a word to say about strategic options and cannot be confronted with this discrimination that occurs today in tariff policy, and which has already deserved the criticism and protest of municipalities such as those of Odivelas and Sintra, among others. We propose the integrity of these companies, not allowing the alienation of participants and ensuring that the supervision of the Court of Auditors is maintained in current terms, not reducing the requirement and transparency in this area.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u266	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u267	This discussion is about problems and about Decrees-Laws that are in force and have already produced effects. We want to defend companies, not align ourselves in manoeuvres to harm or destroy them, and we fully reaffirm our defense of the state's business sector and its fundamental role in quality public service and rights employment. We already know that the contribution of PSD and CDS to this debate will be the policy as they know how to do it: party intrigue, political play, interests and privatization. Make good use of them! They don't count on that way with us! We defeated your privatization project a year ago, continue to defend public service and bring to this debate concrete proposals to defend Carris, STCP, workers and populations. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u268	Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u269	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government Mrs and Mrs. Members : We are debating today, at the initiative of the CFP, two Decrees-Laws whose parliamentary assessment is defined in Rules of Procedure. We are therefore called for a more accurate and detailed reflection on two Decrees-Laws in which a decentralization of the powers of the State authority takes place to, in one case, the Metropolitan Area of Porto ( AMP ) and, in another case, to the city of Lisbon. in the case of the process chosen for the Metropolitan Area of Porto, the Block of the Left, since the publication of the decree-law, expressed some reservations in the design of the chosen process - we repeated, of the process - to carry out the transfer to the Metropolitan Area of the Port of the competences of the transport authority of the central state. However, it must be established as a reservation, in this case, to be clearly defined in the law that the State should continue to be the main guarantor of investment in public transport, including investment related to the expansion and modernisation of transport networks, especially in rail, light and heavy mode. In order for this process of decentralization of competence to proceed in concrete terms it is necessary to correct what was in Law No 52 / 2015 of 9 June, i.e. the legal regime of the public transport service, which, as it is known, was designed at the time by the former PSD / CDS-PP government, from coasts aimed at local administration, in particular for municipalities. The amendments to the diploma, in particular Article 2, are therefore justified. the Decree-Law of the Government. however, with regard to the operational management of the STCP network, there is in fact, in the diploma, a devaluation of the operational management function of the company itself, while at the same time leaving the possibility to directly reflect the management structure of the STCP representatives of the six municipalities where it operates. Therefore, we are in favour of a reconfiguration of the Administrative Board of STCP, on the basis of the direct appointment of four of the five managers of the Management Board by the six municipalities of AMP, through the inter-administrative delegation contract to be established with the AMP, maintaining the reservation of a place for the financial area as the direct representative of the State, the fifth element, and also maintaining the reservation of the choice of the President of the Administrative Board by the municipality of Porto. This design in the composition of the Board of Directors would correspond to the political balance between the powers of the authorities, depending on the representativeness of each individual and, on the other hand, would comply with that established in the legal regime of the passenger transport service itself, according to which transport authorities may delegate, in particular through inter-administrative contracts, in whole or in part, their competences to other transport authorities or other public entities, as is the case with the STC. This composition scheme in the definition of the STCP Management Board seems to be simpler, more transparent and more understandable for all stakeholders in this process. Finally, we also consider, in the case of STCP, as in the case of Carris, that it is necessary to establish a general advisory council, with the ability to deliver opinions on a set of matters of interest to each of the companies and to the region, and where the main political and social actors, regional and local, including in the case of STCP, representatives of all six municipalities covered by it, of the Metropolitan Area of Porto, of the Authority for Mobility and Transport, of the Port Metro, of workers, users and consumers. in the case of Carris, the drawing is considerably the same, but obviously adjusted to the local reality of Lisbon and the metropolitan area of Lisbon. This possibility is also provided for in the legal system of the public business sector itself, according to which it is possible to exist other deliberative or advisory bodies, defining their respective competences. These are, in summary, the reasons for the main amendments that the Left Block defends, either for the Carris Municipalization Decree-Law or for the Order-Law of the transfer to AMP of the powers of regionalization of the public transport service provided by the STCP. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u270	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Minister for the Environment, Mr Matos Fernandes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u271	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I will listen to this first intervention to explain what we have done. In fact, our decision is based on a principle which is evident to the Government, which is the one that runs the territory and the public road, which is the one who can take the most advantage of the service of public road transport. Clearly it is not the State that can do so, it is the authorities. in this sense, STCP and Carris must be internal operators, because only as internal operators can we have guarantees in the future of their maintenance of the public sector, since only in the light of Community rules can we effectively ensure this. To be an internal operator there are two things that must be guaranteed. It is that the transport authority and those who send them to companies must also agree geographically. Only in this way can we be sure that in the future we can limit or prevent a concession without control to privates, as the right one wanted to do, in a recent past. The transport authority, in the light of the law, is the authority. in the case of Porto, the authorities decided to delegate it to the Metropolitan Area of Porto, in the case of Lisbon did not do so in this way, only did it for intermunicipal careers. Therefore, for Carris to be the internal operator of Lisbon, the transport authority will have to be the municipality, which will be sent to the company. The State wins that the City Council of Lisbon has its possession, in fact, to meet the will of the Authority itself, because all public service obligations are paid by the municipality, as well as the renewal of the fleet, shared, as it is already public — in fact, the notice closes within 2 or 3 days — by Community funds which are managed by the State. I remember that since 2011 a bus is not purchased on the Caris, passing the same on the STCP. in the case of Porto, who has to be internal operator is the Metropolitan Area of Porto and I already explained why: because the municipalities delegated to the Metropolitan Area of Porto the function of transport authority. For this reason, there are two contract packages, some concluded between the State and the Metropolitan Area of Porto itself and, because STCP serves only six authorities, there is a second contract package, concluded between the municipalities and the Metropolitan Area, because these six municipalities will ensure public service obligations. This is a very important issue and I explain why. Is it for those who have been saying that «the taxpayers are going to pay the debt, with this model», I ask, in the case of concessions on the right, who would pay the debt but the taxpayers? Now, what is guaranteed here is that, from now on, it is no longer the taxpayers who pay for the public service obligations. It is clear that there are public service obligations and that they have to be paid, but the two metropolitan areas will become operational as in the whole country, where the municipalities pay these public transport service obligations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u272	Mr Paulo Rios de Oliveira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u273	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Beyond the political fiction of the « joint positions », which have combined, joined and now separates the PS, the PCP and the Block, the difference begins to be evident. in order to reverse the concession model that the PSD/CDS-PP government has been able to implement — which was translated into obvious savings and guaranteed public service — the leftmost left, which now function as the government’s Bengal, dreamed of the usual model, “more state, more debt and then see”, and were betrayed. You're right about the PCP. This model of alleged transition from STCP management to municipalities is the political ambush of the year. [[Mr. P. João Galamba's laughs.]] We've all been deceived! To shut down the PCP and the Block, the government did not hand over the management to privates, pretended to hand it over to the municipalities; to shut down and deceive the author until it invoked that the historical debt was on the side of the central State. But what did the municipalities win after all? Oh, my God! The operational deficit can reach 4, 5 million, with the port paying more than half and the President of the Chamber "inflated", proud to say, and I quote, "we have achieved exactly what we wanted". Yeah. As for new lines, if they are disabled, the municipalities pay! And, at least, the possibility of 'additional' and 'fluent' transport services is even put in place — it smells private, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Freedom of management? No way! There will have to be a State "controller" to deal with the financial side. Finally, the germination turned a "cat bag" and they all get hurt in the photograph. There is apparently only one advantage: there are seven new seats in the Technical Unit of Management and one more in the Board of Directors. It's little and that's not what the Portuguese voted for. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u274	The PS Parliamentary Group is followed. Mr João Paulo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u275	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr.a and Mr. State Secretaries, Mr.as and Mrs. Members: What divides the left of the right in the field of public transport in this Parliament is the fact that it is right to seek to privatize public transport undertakings by crushing or removing public service obligations, while this left parliament seeks to define and deliver to the State what we believe to be the best safeguard for the defence of public service obligations, in terms of affordable and social tariffs, in terms of careers, in terms of hours and quality of rolling stock. This red line that separates us is that it allowed one year ago to block the privatization of Carris, the Metropolitan of Lisbon and the STCP. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Between 2011 and 2015, the former Government, PSD / CDS-PP, prepared these companies for a privatisation package launched in a few months of the 2015 legislative elections, and its most shameful boom was the launch of a direct adjustment, at two months of the elections, worth EUR 820 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]] A direct adjustment without any kind of transparency, with a lack of rigor and against the will of all the autarchs of all the parties of the Metropolitan Area of Porto. In four years, the supply quality of Carris and STPC increased, while increasing transport securities prices, all making these companies an appetite business for private partners. Only intermodal securities increased by 20 % in the first 18 months of the previous Government. We see what happened to Carris between 2011 and 2015 : deleted lines; lost careers; hours eliminated; fleet reduced by 136 buses; left the company 630 workers; the network lost 13 million passengers in that period; direct prices increased by 30 to 100 %. We now see what happened to STCP in the same period, between 2011 and 2015 : the fleet lost about 60 buses; 100 workers left; the network lost 25 million passengers; direct prices increased 36 %. The former Government did not only lead to the dismantling of the public passenger transport service until the end because it was blocked by the new parliamentary majority. The electoral commitment of the PS and the Government is known: decentralize the management of the STCP to local authorities and decentralise the ownership of the company and the management of Carris to the Lisbon Chamber. The Carris for the Lisbon Chamber, due to the overwhelming majority of the network being operated in the municipality of Lisbon and in the case of STCP, decentralize the operation for the six municipalities through the Metropolitan Area of Porto, due to the large part of the network of this company being operated outside the municipality of Porto. We believe that local authorities can significantly improve the performance of this competence of the public passenger transport service, as more proximity will bring gains in network planning and conditions of road traffic. We therefore find it strange that the PSD on Thursday, as it did yesterday, defends decentralization and, on Friday, as today, rejects the decentralization of a vital competence for improving mobility and the living conditions of the citizens of the metropolitan areas of Porto and Lisbon. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u276	To speak, Mr Hélder Amaral of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u277	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: I want to respond to the challenge of the Portuguese Communist Party, which, in essence, presents these initiatives, to have a serious, objective speech and with concrete answers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u278	Get it over here!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u279	We had a model that had an objective: to protect taxpayers, workers, users, public service and transport mobility.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u280	We had before 2011!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u281	This model was revoked by VV. Ex. It happens that they caused irreversible damage to what should be the confidence that private people should have in a state of good. I therefore think that today there are no conditions for any private to look at the government in this matter as being a government in which to be trusted. I will even say that even in the capture of foreign direct investment, you have caused damage to the country's image, with regard to the reliability, certainty and stability necessary in the hiring of such services.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u282	That's not reality!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u283	The truth is, today everything is worse, Mr. Minister and Mr. Members of the Left Block, the Communist Party and the Socialist Party. And I'm not the only one who says it! The European Commission even says:'Portugal has no plan to ensure sustainability for public enterprises' - said this week. It also says: « The transport sector is the most indebted. And he calls on the Government and, now, the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the Communist Party to resolve this issue. I am doing exactly the same: I appeal to you to resolve this issue, because there is nothing worse for mobility, for users, for workers and for public service than for indebted companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u284	Privatization left the debt in the state!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u285	But I will say more: the service is worse, the offer has worse quality, the users complain more and more and the taxpayer pays more and more.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u286	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u287	Mr. Minister says it's not true, but I'm not the one saying it. He's not a right-winger who says so! It is a requirement of the Portuguese Communist Party that calls you to the committee and that there is a lack of machinery and circulating material, lack of crews, which imposes cuts on river runs in the Transtejo, that there is a lack of investment and modernization in the billet, that interface stations are being abandoned... [[Protests of the PCP and PS Deputies.]] ...and that the Soflusa is stopped. And I don't even have time to read everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u288	What a surprise!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u289	You knew it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u290	Anyway, they're worse! And I'll say even more: complaints increased exponentially. It is a fact that the unions have not made strikes and the warning of strike has stopped. There's at least one part that's happy...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u291	Let's see what the rest of the unionists say!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u292	...but everything else is worse! Even more, Mr Minister, it was not the CDS that asked for Parliament's opinion either. The Portuguese Communist Party has asked for parliamentary review of the Transport and Communications Acts—it is here! — to cease its operation. It says that municipalities have no financial stability or conditions to ensure the service, that municipalization is a mistake and that therefore there is no other remedy if they do not decree the cessation of the operation of this model. Minister, it's not the CDS that says so! What we would like to know today is how the sustainability of these companies will be guaranteed, the right to mobility, the right to a public service of quality, the right to have affordable, regular transport and the right price for the people who need it most. None of that is clear! Even if we look at the model and the agreement of principle signed between the State and Carris, Minister, we have asked several questions and remain doubts. We have no objection at all in principle, we liked to know what comes here and what you can count on, because this is very generic. For example, it is said that « (...) Carris will maintain the rights of use of the buildings referred to in the preceding point in terms of defining by the parties(... ), that the Board assumes (...) » — as already mentioned here and also in the STC — « (...) compensatory compensation for public service is guaranteed by the authorities not by the taxpayers (...) ». We have nothing to oppose! But does this or does it not require a change in contracts? Does it or does it not require the amendment of the legislation? Does it or does it not require changing models? We want to know, for example, whether the regulator is waiting for government information, as he says. If you have already requested it, then you have to give a binding prior opinion, but as you have not given it, it is because you do not have that information. Therefore, all these issues are to be clarified and that is why the CDS wants a serious contribution here, objective, with a single principle: protection of users, public service, public transport companies and the image of Portugal, so that no longer is there any government that does not comply with the decisions of the Council of Ministers, does not comply with the basic rules of foreign direct investment and does not comply with a basic rule of stability in politics, which is to keep, for those who need them stable, regular and always working. You have created a discount model that is very complicated, that is impossible to meet and that directly affects the most deprived population. You say: "Well, there's a discount in IRS! For it is more than 45 % of the people who need the most public transport services do not pay that tax. As such, they're out of this cage. So our model was better there too. [[Protests by PS MP Rosa Maria Albernaz.]] It was a model with a condition of appeal, it was a model for those who needed mobility and for those who, in fact, needed help to have public transport at acceptable prices. Therefore, our questions are very simple, objective and concrete: say how they will solve the problem of transport; say how they will solve the chaos that exists today; say how they will make businesses sustainable; say how they will protect taxpayers and users and the image of the state. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u293	Mr Jorge Machado, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u294	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: STCP plays a vital role in mobility for most of the population of the district of Porto. Given its importance for the population and for regional development, the CFP has always been, is and will be with the workers and users of the CTS to ensure more and better public transport service.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u295	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u296	in the past, we fought the privatization that PSD and CDS wanted to impose and, with the workers and users of STCP, we won and defeated privatization. On a proposal from the CFP, we have adopted a legal standard that prevents the privatisation of the CTS. Today, with the proposed amendments we have tabled, we want to prevent the deresponsibility of the government, strengthen the rights of workers and collective employment in the company, strengthen the public service provided to the people and strengthen the public service of STCP. Today, as in the past, we are next to the people and the workers and we are not going to the song of those who want to destabilize and weaken STCP to then privatize and thus compromise the public transport service in the Port district. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u297	To speak, Mr Carlos Santos Silva of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u298	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In June 2011 public transport companies generated an astronomical debt that was around EUR 17 billion and, in fact, if nothing had been done, it would end the legislature in the order of EUR 23 billion.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u299	What about 2015?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u300	Oh! Or more! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u301	The previous government has implemented a strategic transport plan in order to restructure and create sustainability: the quality of the service has been maintained; the investment has been transferred to the concessionaires; the increase in ticket prices did not exceed the value of inflation; the assets remain in the public sphere. The majority of the left now argues that the service can only be provided by public entities. We argue that the service can be provided by public, local or private entities.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u302	It's always worse in private!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u303	What moves us is the quality of service and not the nature of the shareholder who provides it. The citizen who is a contributor and passenger does not want to know whether the service is being provided to him by the public or the private, whether efficiency in the service that is provided to him, or ease in access to that service and whether the service puts him on the job. The citizen wants a transport that works, that is efficient and rigorous. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the reversal of reforms produced by the previous Government, are called into question the existence of an integrated transport system throughout the metropolitan region of Lisbon. We also ask whether the legitimacy of a single municipality in the case of Lisbon, at the limit, can decide on the elimination of transport lines in the neighbouring municipalities currently assured by Carris, namely Amadora, Loures, Odivelas and Oeiras, Minister, do these municipalities not count on the Government and the Socialist Party? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the government has failed to reverse a fundamental strategic reform for the development of this region. It was wrong for the government not to promote an integrated and sustainable metropolitan mobility and transport system. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact is that the Socialist Government has unfortunately turned a structural issue into a very little serious campaign of electoral propaganda. The government acted partially, did an electoral favor to the President of the Chamber of Lisbon. Mr Minister, who pays for the Lisbon Chamber's stamps? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u304	The private!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u305	Is the colossal debt to be paid by all Portuguese? Is the discount party to be offered in the local elections? Minister, who will pay this election benefit? Are they all Portuguese, from Bragança to Faro? Oh, my God! The model we defended did not allow this real national shame, because it treated the other municipalities with the same rights and the same dignity.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u306	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u307	They treated the municipalities equally, so they were all out!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u308	Why do Amateur, Sintra, Loures or Mafra not have the same rights to discounts in passes? To conclude, I would say that this is even the most centralist decentralization model of Portuguese democratic history. [[PS protests.]] Mr Minister, how many more years will it take to end the old adage that'Portugal is Lisbon and the rest is landscape'? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u309	Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u310	And, soon, Mr. Paulo Rios, if the PSD and the CDS were in power, we were today discussing the privatization of public transport that you did over the years in which you walked in the government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u311	Talk to that side!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u312	In fact, Mr. Paulo Rios and Mr. PSD Members, what you did during the four and a half years in which you were in government was to dismantle the public transport service. [[PSD protests.]] The gentlemen have prepared everything! Everything was ready! The idea was to dismantle public transport services and thus ensure privatization. But it is clear from this discussion that the PSD and the CDS have to explain to the Portuguese, and also to the authorships, why they defend that debt remains in the state and the profit side can go to a private company. But when the debt is in the state and the profit side goes to the municipalities, you don't like it anymore! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u313	Now! It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u314	That is why you are so hard to find candidates for the authorities. That must be why!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u315	You've outlived your time, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u316	Because, obviously, the way the municipalities treat the municipalities, the authorities, demonstrates exactly this: they have no confidence in the autarcas, in the municipalities and they have no confidence in decentralization. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u317	You have the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr Minister for the Environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u318	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I wanted to say and make it clear that the private sector does not do better if we do not abandon companies. In fact, looking at how they left public companies, it is to imagine that anyone else can do better. Tell me that the fleets of private bus companies are better than those of public companies! In fact, the right has dreamed of privatization, but they have no doubt that, with contracts that you have. They celebrated, one of two: either there would be a huge breakdown of public service or everything would be much more expensive. [[PSD protests.]] The right here had a total ambiguity position, because by approving Law No 52 / 2015, he said that the public service contracts would later be transferred to the City Council of Lisbon — and only to the City Council of Lisbon — and to the Metropolitan Area of Porto. And we agreed! What we think does not make sense, and what is actually a trick is that, in the meantime, you have privatized companies. And then we don't see each other in everything. Therefore, I cannot but address the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the Communist Party by saying that, if we had not worked together, this privatisation had already been completed. What we want is to continue working together for a good public service of collective transport and this project, whether in Lisbon or in the Metropolitan Area of Porto, being, yes, certainly a political project, was not a partisan project. But what the PSD has shown is a total disrespect for local power, including a wide range of authorities belonging to VV parties. Ex.. They did this in the water sector, with its fusion, with the privatization of transport. I can assure you that when the Portuguese vote in the elections, they will not forget what they want to do to the authorities. For my part, I will never forget. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u319	Mr Paulo Rios, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, spoke very quickly because he has little time to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u320	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Very quickly, for the sake of the intellectual and political health of this Parliament,... [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u321	...I just wanted to remember the following: this debate has been launched... [[PS protests.]] ... by the PCP to criticize the PS decision and the Block accompanied him in these criticisms.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u322	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u323	It has nothing to do with us. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u324	You have the floor to close the debate, Mr Bruno Dias, of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u325	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what you want me to know. What you are presenting is a cease-fire, but you are ashamed to mention in your speeches. [[PCP applause.]] Look, you don't even talk about what you bring here! Although, once again, the PSD and the CDS refuse, in this process, to propose or discuss concrete solutions or answers, however, we note that there are clearly conditions for developing the work of discussion and approval of the just and necessary amendments to these legal decrees. In fact, concrete problems such as those that even the PSD and the CDS have observed may have, and have, a response and solution in the proposed amendments presented by the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u326	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u327	What is confirmed, then, by Mr President and others. Members, it is only once again that this initiative of the CFP has been timely and important. Here we are to continue this work. Let's see what other parties will do. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u328	We thus reached the end of the assessment of Decrees-Laws Nos 82 / 2016 and 86 - D / 2016. Before we proceed to the vote, I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to announce some file that has entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u329	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, the following legislative initiatives: Bill No. 418 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Regulates access to assisted drug death ( NAP ), which falls to 9. the Commission and draft resolutions Nos 676 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Cape Verde and Senegal ( President of the HR ), 678 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government carry out the rehabilitation and requalification of the José Falcon High School in Coimbra ( PS ), 680 / XIII ( 2 ) in the short term. ( a ) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 82 / 2016 of 28 November, which determines the decentralization, partial and temporary, of the competences of the transport authority, of the State to the Metropolitan Area of Porto, relating to the public transport service of passengers operated by the Collective Transport Society of Porto, SA ( STCP ), and the decentralization, part and temporary, of the operational management of STCP ( PSD ) and 681 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 86 - D / 2016 of 30 December, which transfers to the municipality of Lisbon the ownership and management of Carris ( PSD ). The last two draft resolutions should still be voted on today. Proposals for amendments to Decree-Law No 82 / 2016 and Decree-Law No 86 - D / 2016 were also included in the Bureau, respectively, by the PCP and the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u330	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the voting period. I request the services to operate the electronic system for the verification of quorum. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the electronic framework records 198 meetings, to which are added those of the Members. Deputies Antonio Eusebius, PS, Hugo Lopes Soares, PSD, and Ilda Araújo Novo, CDS-PP, who failed to sign up electronically. 201 Members are present, so we have a quorum to vote. Let's start with vote No 230 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — In spite of the death of Tom Regan ( PAN and PS ). I call on Secretary Sandra Pontedeira to proceed with the reading of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u331	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On February 17, the philosopher and professor Tom Regan died. During more than 30 years of academic and professional travel, this emeritus professor of North Carolina State University dedicated himself, with tenacity and perseverance, to the study of environmental ethics, bioethics and philosophy applied to animal rights, having written that which is considered one of the greatest works on this subject, The Case for Animal Rights, which deserved, including a nomination for the Pulitzer Prize and for the National Book Award, in the United States of America, confirming it as an intellectual leader in this field of knowledge. His death was therefore a great loss to the scientific community and to change the collective consciousness that is operating around the world. Tom Regan had already said in the 1980s that ‘to be kind to animals is not enough. Avoiding cruelty is not enough. Housing animals in larger and more comfortable cages is not enough(...). The truth of animal rights requires empty cages, not bigger cages. ’ Regan also argued that environmental ethics should be based on the premise that non-conscious natural objects may have value in their own right, regardless of human interests. These are undoubtedly two maximums that guide the day-to-day political and social activism for the protection of nature and all life forms around the world. Tom Regan's work will continue to mark and guide future generations, being an example for all those who believe in the importance of serious and rigorous science and work developed for nature and those who share the planet with us. It is therefore still our duty to follow your legacy in the least contribution we can offer. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session on 24 February 2017, expresses its deepest regret for this sad event and pays tribute to Tom Regan, expressing his deepest condolences to his family, friends and the entire scientific community. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u332	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 231 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Despite the death of Ambassador José Fernandes Fafe ( President of RA, PS, PSD, PCP and Os Verdes ). I call on Secretary Idália Serrão to proceed with the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u333	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « José Custodio de Freitas Fernandes Fafe was born in Porto, on January 31, 1927, having graduated in Historical-Philosophical Sciences by the Faculty of Letters of the University of Coimbra. Teaching man, a teacher at the Liceu Dom João de Castro, was also a man of civic culture and courage. During the dictatorship, he was able to combine writing with intervention, not fearing personal sacrifice. Collaborator of magazines such as Vertice, Seara Nova or Time and Mode, joined the National Commission of 3 in 1973. the Congress of the Democratic Opposition, held in Aveiro. Humanist, he had a broad vision of the world. Poet, novelist and essayist, his social concerns crossed with the aesthetic currents of modernity such as neo-realism, surrealism and existentialism. Democratic Portugal has opened the door to its vocation for diplomacy. He was the first ambassador to democratic Portugal in Cuba. He was also an ambassador in Mexico and Argentina, bringing us closer to this continent which links us both to history and to affections. He was also our ambassador in Cape Verde and traveling ambassador to the Portuguese-speaking African countries. Constructor of the Lusophony space, he knew how to interpret it in its plurality. She also took her to other places, when she reminded us of the unique place of African Portuguese-language literature. On 22 April 1989, he was thanked with the Great Cruz of the Order of the Child Dom Henrique. Generous man, his last public act was the donation of his vast personal library to the city of Cascais, which enriched with works of poetry, art, social sciences and politics and sciences, some of his authorship. He left a great Portuguese; we must celebrate his life. It is therefore with deep sadness, but with gratitude, that the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, marks its death, conveying to its family the most sense of regret. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u334	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the votes that we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 668 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Croatia ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No. 391 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Change the General Table of Seal Tax to eliminate the taxation of card-based payment transactions ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The general vote is followed by Bill No. 396 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Clarifies the holder of economic interest in the rates for card based payment operations ( amendment to the Seal Tax Code, approved by Law No 150 / 99 of 11 September ) ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall generally vote for Bill No 404 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — It makes it clear that the charge of seal tax on commissions charged to traders falls on the financial system ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission. We shall generally vote for Bill No. 410 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Ensure that the seal tax affecting rates charged by card-based payment operations falls on the financial institutions ( amendment to the Seal Tax Code as approved by Law No 150 / 99 of 11 September ) ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 5. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u335	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u336	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u337	Mr President, it is to announce that, with regard to the vote on the last three draft laws, I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u338	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Although it does not consist of the script, and since it has entered the Bureau in time to be voted on, we shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 680 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 82 / 2016 of 28 November determining the decentralization, partial and temporary, of the competences of the transport authority, of the State to the Metropolitan Area of Porto, relating to the public passenger transport service operated by the Corporation for Collective Transport of Porto, SA ( STCP ), and the decentralization, part and temporary, of the operational management of STCP ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, with votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u339	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u340	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u341	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u342	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u343	Also to announce that I will make a statement of vote on the last vote, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u344	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Hélder Amaral, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u345	Mr President, to announce that the CDS Parliamentary Group will also present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u346	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u347	Mr President, to announce that I will also make a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u348	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Although it does not consist of the script, but since it has also entered the Bureau in time to be voted on, we shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 681 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Termination of the validity of Decree-Law No 86 - D / 2016 of 30 December, which transfers to the municipality of Lisbon the ownership and management of Carris ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, with votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u349	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u350	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u351	Mr President, it is to announce that I will also present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u352	Be registered. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 490 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — payment of compensation due to workers dismissed from the House of Douro ( BE ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u353	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u354	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u355	Mr President, it is to announce that the members of the Socialist Party elected by the electoral circles of the Guard, Viseu, Bragança and Vila Real will present a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u356	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall vote on draft resolution No 356 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by building a student residence at the Rio Major Sports School ( PCP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members are in favour of paragraphs 34 to 44 of the Journal on plenary meetings held on 5, 6, 11, 12, 13, 17, 18, 19, 25, 26 and 27 January 2017. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we must also vote for an opinion from the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees. I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to give an account of his opinion.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u357	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of 5. the Criminal Instruction Judge of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa, Case No 5750 / 16.7T9LSB, the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees decided to issue an opinion in order to authorize the Members. PSD Members Cristóvão Crespo and Mauricio Marques to intervene in the reference process.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u358	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We are therefore putting an end to the order of business. The next plenary meeting will take place on Wednesday, 1 March, and on the agenda there is a period for political declarations and then the examination of petitions Nos 105 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — They request that the Assembly of the Legislative Republic towards the creation of the National Day of Anemia ( AWGP — Anemia Working Group Portugal ) and 271 / XII ( 2. ( a ) — The dismissal of the external trainers of the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training ( Rui Miguel Bartolomeu May and others).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u359	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u360	Before I give the floor to Mr João Oliveira, I ask the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, please remain silent, because the session is not over yet. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u361	Mr President, considering that draft resolutions Nos 680 and 681 / XIII ( 2 ). a ), requesting the termination of the respective Decrees-Laws Nos 82 / 2016 and 86 - D / 2016, have already entered the hour and that the vote had to be done by adapting the script, I believe that, for the time being, it did not announce that, with the rejection of the suspensions of validity, the proposed amendments that were submitted go down to its committee to be discussed in the specialty.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u362	You're absolutely right, Mr. Deputies. I do not know whether Mr Secretary, when he announced the entry into the Bureau of the amendments, said they were going down to the Commission, but it was implicit.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u363	That's how it gets explicit!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-25.u364	I wish everyone a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 39 minutes.]]
