ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, we have quorum, so we will start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 6 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the gates of the galleries. Before we begin today's agenda, which has as its fundamental point the 15-year debate with the Prime Minister on housing policies, I would ask the Secretary, Mr Duarte Pacheco, to proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members, he entered the Bureau and was admitted, draft resolution No 1068 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Suspension of the period of operation of the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions, between 19 July and 29 November 2017 ( President of the HR ), which will still be voted on today.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then begin the 15th year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( a ). the Regiment of the Assembly of the Republic, on housing policies. For the opening of the debate, Mr Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would like to begin this first half-year debate of the new legislative session by wishing all Members and all Members. Ladies and gentlemen, an excellent year of parliamentary work. But today I cannot fail to greet especially the Portuguese people for the way in which the elections took place on 1 October last year, marked by the greatest reduction in the abstention of the last 24 years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Autarchical elections are the largest party of democracy, a unique moment of civic participation that mobilizes hundreds of thousands of people, who have applied for more than 12,000 lists, presented by different political parties or by various movements of elective citizens. I would like to pay particular tribute to the 35,554 elected authorships — in the municipal chambers, in the municipal assemblies and in the assemblies of the parish — which will take place at a decisive time for local power in Portugal. Of course, because this new mandate will be marked, I am sure, by the realization of decentralization as a cornerstone of state reform: to bring the power of citizens closer, to improve efficiency and to strengthen democratic control of power. The success of these years of local power deserves a clear signal of the confidence of the State in local authorities, reinforcing its responsibilities and the corresponding resources allocated to them. We are concluding the negotiation with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ( ANMP ) of the more than 20 sectoral diplomas that are under consideration and are thus in a position to begin, during this month, the negotiation of a proposal for a local finance law, which will enable us to advance and conclude the parliamentary debate of the framework law of decentralization of competences for local authorities, already presented in this Assembly of the Republic. On the other hand, this mandate corresponds to the time when we define Portugal's post-2020 vision, a medium-term strategy that mobilizes the Portuguese for a decade of convergence and sets the framework for the national negotiation of the next multiannual financial framework ( FIF ) of the European Union. For the construction and implementation of this strategy, local authorities play a central role in governance at various levels. We therefore count on all the authors for this debate and for the implementation of this strategy. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the last debate of the State of the Nation I announced housing as a new priority area in public policies. The authentic debate confirmed, in fact, the importance of priority and urgency in implementing a new generation of housing policies. There are today old problems of access to housing by families in a poor situation, which the eradication of the barracks did not eliminate, with new problems that have excluded from cities the middle classes, especially the new generations, which were condemned to postpone their autonomy, indebtedness or abandonment of the city center. This is not an exclusively national problem. Portuguese exceptionality has been the absence of a response from public policies to increasing market pressures. We all know that there are no ‘silver bullets’ for this challenge, which requires concerted action and comprehensive measures directed at different segments of the population and concrete clashes between supply and demand. We therefore approved, this morning, in the Council of Ministers, a set of three diplomas and, for public debate, a new generation of housing policies, which will be promoted in close coordination with the municipalities and which translates into change: firstly, a policy focused on the public offer of housing for the most deprived for a policy oriented towards universal access to adequate housing; secondly, a housing policy whose main instruments have based on the construction of new housing and support for the purchase of own housing for a policy that favours urban rehabilitation and lease; thirdly, a policy of housing focused on 'houses' for a policy that places people at its centre; fourthly, a centralized and sectoral policy for a multi-level, integrated and participatory governance model; and finally a responsive policy for a proactive policy, based on information and shared knowledge and monitoring and evaluation of results. Two concrete goals are to be achieved within eight years, which will enable us to approach or achieve European means: on the one hand, to reduce the rate of effort of families with housing expenditure from 35 % to 27 %, which corresponds to the European average; on the other hand, to increase the weight of housing with public support from 2 % to 5 % in the whole of the housing park, which, representing an increase of 170 000 fires, will still leave us halfway to the European average. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is well the measure of the delay we have accumulated over decades in public housing policies and it is also the measure of urgency to realize what is about to happen. To achieve these goals, we propose an extended set of instruments that seek to respond to the problems diagnosed in three fundamental dimensions. First, respond to families who live in a situation of severe housing shortage. We eradicated the barracks, but we still have families excluded from proper habit and dignified living conditions. This will create a new program, which we have designated as « 1. o Law", directed towards this goal. The response to this dimension also includes the need for urgent accommodation as a result of unpredictable or exceptional events such as disasters or large-scale migratory phenomena. The second dimension is to make rehabilitation the main form of intervention in urban development, to the detriment of the new construction. It was for this purpose approved the Rehabilitation as a Rule project, which provides for the revision of the legal framework of the construction, so as to suit the requirements and specificities of the rehabilitation of buildings. It is also planned to deepen and articulate the six existing instruments of investment support for rehabilitation, in particular for housing leases. But I wanted to stop at the dimension which is the first and most distinctive objective of this set of measures: to ensure access to housing to those who have no market response and who are no longer just the most deprived families today. I speak of the middle classes away from the urban centers that, getting further away from work, aggravate their quality of life and the paradigm of mobility in the metropolitan areas, speak of the young people who successively adapt their life projects because they do not have homes at prices that they can afford to pay. To this end, we will develop an affordable rental programme which simultaneously relies on public housing promotion and on the incentive that private owners place their homes on an affordable lease market. To this end too, we have today approved the rules for the identification, selection and integration of state buildings, including social security, returned or available in the National Building Rehabilitation Fund (FNRE ), which was created to promote the rehabilitation of buildings for subsequent lease at affordable costs. At the beginning of 2018, we will approve a set of incentives for owners to also place houses on this new market at affordable prices for a minimum period guaranteeing the stability and security of landlords and tenants. In addition, instruments for promoting security in rental, transparency and information on the market and for attracting supply will be created. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The complexity of problems requires everyone to participate in the construction of solutions. The new generation of housing policies that we have adopted today will be in public debate for the next 60 days. And we know that, also in this House, a basic law of housing policy is being worked out, by the impulse of Mrs Helena Roseta.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u5	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u6	I shall now conclude, Mr President. A law that should be widely involved, providing for an important role of the associations of residents and neighborhood groups, as well as of local authorities. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are no magic measures or « silver bullets ». These are complex and diversified political responses, with a simple political purpose: homes at prices that people can afford; cohesive cities and with social diversity; more stable leases and less uncertainty in the daily lives of families; better conditions to respond to the demographic challenge. This is the future we are building and in which development the now elected autarchs will certainly have a central role. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u7	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to the debate itself. Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u8	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I would like, in the first word, to congratulate you and to greet the Socialist Party, as Secretary-General, for the election result you obtained last Sunday in the elections. I would like to congratulate you on this result, as well as all the party forces that have disputed these elections and all the elected. And I would also like to take this opportunity to greet each and every one of you. Members, because two years ago too, Prime Minister, who held the last legislative elections in which these parliamentary groups went out winners. That is why I welcome all of you. Members who were elected two years ago. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u9	The Prime Minister has chosen the theme of housing and has announced a set of measures, as he has done on other matters. Mr. Prime Minister, after having broken the national strategy for housing policy that the previous government had decided and chosen in 2015, house prices have continued to increase, there are fewer houses to rent and responsibility—it is obvious, Mr. Prime Minister! — it is tourism, local accommodation... Mr. Prime Minister announced two years ago a large fund for urban rehabilitation, but today he has forgotten to talk about it; he announced the Effective House Programme, but today he has forgotten it. However, it presents a set of new measures. Mr Prime Minister had up to EUR 5 million in the Sector Policy Budget, but they were all captivated and did not even spend a million euros in housing policy. [[Congrats from the PSD and the CDS-PP Member João Pinho de Almeida.]] Mr. Prime Minister, you are better at announcing measures in 5 minutes than a good carpenter pressing nails a whole day.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u10	The nails don't tighten, they hammer! The screws are tight!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u11	You are, in fact, extraordinary in presenting and listing measures, but it is showoff policy and not action. Mr Prime Minister, this is also the first 15-year debate after the holiday period and you have opened a new standard of public policy. We already knew that Mr. Prime Minister was the Prime Minister of the announcement of day-to-day measures and governance. in this holiday period, we realized that this is also the government of deresponsibility. [[PSD applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, your Government has changed the rules of the competition for the placement of teachers in the middle. Hundreds of teachers have been harmed, but it's nothing with the government and for the year they promise to change. During the holiday period, Mr. Prime Minister, more than 60 people died in fires in Portugal. It seems that the blame will die single... and deresponsibility: the boy of the Socialist Party, who should be dismissed by indecent and bad figure, leaves for a lateral issue and Mr. Prime Minister assumes no responsibility. [[Congratulations from the PSD and CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]] We had, Mr. Prime Minister, the tank case. The episode of Tanks was, in the first phase, of great gravity; in the second phase, it was nothing more, until the material was a sort of scrap and it almost made a favor to disappear; then we had the irreparable statements by the Minister of Defense, who, at some point, no longer knew, even, what had happened in Tanks ; three months later, 97 days later, it is time to confront the Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, can you tell the country today, why is it the least I can ask you if what happened in Tanks was or wasn't a theft? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u12	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u13	Mr President, Mr Hugo Soares, this is the first half-year debate in which he leads the PSD bench, I would like to congratulate him on his election and wish him, of course, the greatest happiness in the exercise of these new and demanding functions. With regard to the first question you have raised, I can even tell you that the measures have not only been announced as they are being implemented. In the different sets of programmes, from the Resettlement to Landing — Accessible Housing, the Resettlement to Landing — Municipalities, the Urban Rehabilitation Programme for Social Quarters, the energy efficiency aspect, the Revive, the Requalification of the Historical Heritage, the Effective House, the energy efficiency in the Public Administration, the instruments for urban areas, the National Building Rehabilitation Fund, the Financial Instrument for Urban Rehabilitation and Revitalization, are currently running a total of 4803 million euros in housing policy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So we understand. As regards the second part of the matter, Mr President, the Government has not changed the rules by means of the invitation to tender. The government has opened a competition with rules and there are people who are not satisfied with its result—it is legitimate. There are about 100 in a total universe of thousands of teachers who are placed. What was requested, which was an administrative solution to people's specific life problems, is not possible, for the simple reason that, having a competition, the administrative change of the result of this competition necessarily affects all others who were also placed on the basis of it. There is a fundamental problem, Mr Hugo Soares, that we will have, and I have already said it several times here, one day, to deal seriously, which is the following: how is it possible to have a professional career, the only one in Portuguese Public Administration, where professionals are subject to a universal competition regime that involves a change of their workplace, with a tendency impossible to coincide between the place of residence and the place of work? Then there is a set of complexities. I have had the opportunity to speak personally with several of the affected people and I give you the concrete case of a lady living in São João da Madeira and is in the binding framework No 5, which covers the districts of Castelo Branco and da Guarda, i.e. is linked in a pedagogical zone frame that is soon away from the teaching zone where she lives. It is recently linked and therefore has a relatively low position in graduation and has been placed — it indicates priorities for its placement — in 77. the position in Almeida. It is natural that those who live in São João da Madeira and are placed in Almeida are not satisfied, but this does not result from the amendment of the rules of the competition, it follows from these rules, that you have that residence, that binding framework and also have indicated Almeida as one of the locations to which the competition is presented. No teacher was put in a school where he didn't compete. This is the truth and these are the facts. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Secondly, its parliamentary group took the initiative and, well, to propose that, in view of the seriousness of the events in Pedrogão Grande, an independent technical committee was constituted in this House of the Republic, so that it could be ascertained by an independent and impartial entity, which was not dependent on the Government. It is so serious that everyone, starting with the government, has accepted this proposal and an independent technical committee has been appointed. I would like to know what would have been said if the Government had refused the independent technical committee or if the Government, instead of waiting quietly for what the independent technical committee would be doing, if it were to come forward with conclusions to the country which only that committee has at this time legitimacy to effectively present. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, do you not know that there is a principle of separation of powers? Do you not know that the government is not responsible for interfering with the administration of justice? Do you think it is up to the government to replace the Public Prosecutor's Office in the conduct of criminal proceedings to investigate whether there has been theft, theft or any other criminal facts in Tancos? Do you think that's what the government is up to? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] I must tell you this: if the government were to replace the criminal investigation authorities in the investigation of this crime, then there would be a serious overthrow of the rule of law, which has by principle the separation of powers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u14	Mr Hugo Soares has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u15	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I will return to political accountability and even to the question of teachers, but 97 days later I ask you again, why did you not answer: was it a theft or was it not a theft? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u16	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u17	Mr President, honourable Member, you are a lawyer and you well know that legal qualification results from criminal investigation. The government doesn't do criminal investigation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u18	Mr Hugo Soares has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u19	Mr President, Prime Minister, we are the two jurists. So let's go to legal qualifications. One of two, it was. Was it a robbery or was it a robbery? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u20	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u21	Mr. President, Mr. Hugo Soares, I know enough law to know that besides theft and theft, there are still other susceptible criminal types,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] ...but there's a fundamental rule... [[PSD Member Hugo Lopes Soares' laughter.]] There is the abuse of trust, finally, there are several. There's a big card in criminal law. But there is one thing I can assure you: there is a basic standard that does not even need to be a lawyer to know, it is enough to have attended the first half of Constitutional Law: in Portugal the separation of powers is in force. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u22	Mr Hugo Soares, you have the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u23	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, because it is: the country today knows that, 97 days after the tank episode, you are not able to tell if the material has disappeared because a UFO (non-identified flying object) has come, if it has disappeared because the inventory was badly done or if, indeed, it has been subtracted from there by someone. You know, Prime Minister, in the first half of Constitutional Law, political learning is not learned.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u24	Oh, is it? Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u25	And you know what, Prime Minister? It is political responsibility that we are talking about and you do not have it, shake it every day as if it had arrived in the government today and it was nothing with you. [[PSD applause.]] This is also the case with teachers, Prime Minister. You list the problem as if it had fallen there now by parachute. You've been Prime Minister for two years! Mr. Prime Minister did not know the rules and changed them before the competition. The teachers were harmed and you don't want to solve these people's problems. Mr. Prime Minister, let's move on to another subject, because I've seen these guys say nothing. Let's talk about health. During the past few months, Prime Minister, health debt continued to grow exponentially. They're strikes behind strikes. I don't think there's even a health sector that hasn't announced or made a strike. They're postponed surgeries, it's a service that doesn't serve people. But you fill your mouth with saying that you are saving the National Health Service and even have the courage to have a Mr. Secretary of State saying that it was a torment to rule in those circumstances. Mr. Prime Minister, it was torment to rule when there was no certainty whether there was money to pay wages; torment was when the debts that the government you belonged to left for the others to pay were to be paid. That was a torment! [[Congrats from the PSD and the CDS-PP Member João Pinho de Almeida.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u26	You've also left debts! You didn't leave any debts? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u27	But if Mr. Prime Minister turned the page of austerity and turned the page of difficulties, do you now think it is a torment to rule with the expectations he has generated? Oh, my God! Mr. Prime Minister, it's a problem like what happened in Civil Protection. You have not chosen yours because they are good, choose them because they are yours! I wanted to ask you a direct question, which you asked for a direct answer. At the Hospital de Ovar you appointed as president of the board of directors a high school teacher, from Mathematics, who is a defeated candidate of the Socialist Party to a local authority, and appointed to the voice of that board the daughter of the strong man of the Socialist Party of Ovar. I ask you directly: what criterion have you presided over these appointments? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u28	Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u29	Mr President, honourable Member, the first number to be retained is that between 2011 and 2015, 7% of the expenditure on health. There were less EUR 653 billion invested in health in Portugal in the four years in which VV. Ex. They were government. [[PSD protests.]] The second number to be retained is that, until July of this year, more than 95 000 consultations in primary care, more 65,000 hospital consultations, more 118 000 surgeries and the creation of more 36 family health units and more 670 beds in continuous care. These are the numbers; this is the result! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u30	Answer zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u31	Mr Hugo Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u32	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, don't hurt me, but it's the third or fourth time I have to ask you the same question. Moreover, it has been recurrent: what criteria have you presided over those appointments? Mr. Prime Minister, it's so simple, answer it! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u33	You have the floor, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u34	Mr President, honourable Member, it was certainly a criterion of competence, but the Minister of Health would not have proposed them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u35	Mr. Hugo Lopes Soares, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u36	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, competence? Oh, my God! The rest is coincidence! It was just competence, the rest was coincidence! But I have also seen that, once again, Mr. Prime Minister'shapes the water from the hood' and the responsibility is not yours, he is the Minister of Health! You didn't know anything! [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister didn't know anything, the responsibility always lies with the others! It's never your responsibility! I will take advantage of the 50 seconds that I still have — you still have time to answer — to say the following: you are prime minister two years ago. It will be prepared to be, and well, but the Prime Minister seems to have arrived today, because in each debate he presents new things as if he had not been yesterday and is never able to realise, in political action, what corresponds to people's wishes. Mr. Prime Minister came here to talk about investment in health. In 2016, the expenditure on health capital decreased by 29 % less than with the previous government. Where is the investment in health? Mr. Prime Minister has announced strikes — doctors, nurses, diagnostic and therapeutic technicians — he has the surgeries to be postponed, the consultations to be delayed and he thinks he is providing good service to the populations. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, it is true that there have been difficult years in which investment in health has decreased. You know why? Because there was a government that had to pay the debts that left the government that supported and in which you were "number two" not only in that government but also in the Socialist Party, and you let that happen. Mr Prime Minister, on the questions we have raised, the answers have been zero, but you can be absolutely sure that this Parliamentary Group will continue to ask the same questions, knowing that Mr Prime Minister is constantly irresponsible of the responsibility that a prime minister must have. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u37	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u38	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with all honesty, I would rather than think that I arrived yesterday than to look at you and feel that you have been here since last century! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] What's normal... Continued PSD protests. It must have hurt a lot, because four days of the elections are still so uncomfortable. That must have hurt a lot! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u39	It's just a category, it's just a class!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u40	Mr. President, when I have the opportunity to answer... Continued PSD protests.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u41	I ask the honourable Members and the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, let Mr. Prime Minister finish the answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u42	It is natural that there is this contrast, because while the government can announce what it has to do, which is to solve the problems of the Portuguese today, and build the future, you are still discussing a government where I participated and of which I have ceased to function in 2007 — 10 years ago. You're ten years late, sir! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u43	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u44	But, in order not to consume much more time in the Assembly of the Republic, which must have interesting issues to discuss, I would just like to tell you the following: not all that the previous government did was bad... [[Ah...!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u45	... and one of the good things that he did was to have created CRESAP ( Recruitment and Selection Committee for Public Administration ),... [[PSD laughter.]] ... that enables us to save this debate, because no hospital administrator is appointed without being previously subject to a thorough assessment by CRESAP. Therefore, if CRESAP gave a favourable opinion on these appointments, some reason must have been.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u46	You must conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u47	Unless you don't trust CRESAP anymore. CRESAP is no longer good? Have you stopped trusting CRESAP? You may not be informed, but I must tell you... [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u48	You must conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u49	Mr. President, I conclude, if you leave me. We should continue to trust Mr Cresap, because before being appointed the new President, we were careful to listen to the different party forces, particularly the leader of his party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u50	To put questions, Mrs Catarina Martins of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u51	Mr President, Prime Minister, past the autarchic elections, and taking advantage to greet all parties for participation in the autarchic elections and also Mr Prime Minister as Secretary-General of the Socialist Party for the result obtained, I remember that this is the last debate before the surrender to the Assembly of the Republic of the State Budget and therefore this is the time to talk about the State Budget. We are here two years after two legislative elections that have opened a new strategy for the country's economy and the reading that the Left Block does today is what it has done: the recovery of income from work — wages and pensions — is what allows the growth of the economy, that is what allows the creation of employment.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u53	So what we now say is the same as we said in January, in April, in July, in September: all economic data show the need to deepen the recovery of income from work — wages and pensions — and the next State budget must respond to this need. To deepen labour income is, of course, to lower the IRS and ensure more progressiveness, to protect especially those and those who were most martyred by the huge increase in taxes decreed by the PSD and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u54	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u55	I remember that a drop in IRS and greater progress in the steps of IRS have an impact on the recovery of income, both in salaries and pensions, both in the public and private sectors, and that is particularly important because who in Portugal earns 800 € per month has not yet seen any recovery of their income. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u56	I am referring to those people who have an income that is not affected by the increase in national minimum wage and who have not been affected by the end of the overtax, because they no longer pay it. Therefore, in Portugal, we have a large majority of people who pick up at the house of 800 € per month and who have not seen any recovery of their income. And no one would understand that the next State Budget would not be able to allow greater progress in the IRS and low levels of the IRS than this response to those who have not yet seen any income recovery and who should have it during 2018. [[Congratulations from BE.]] So for the Left Block this is an essential matter. There is a second issue on income recovery, which is essential: pensions. Recovering pensions is recovering income from work. The Left Block soon demanded in the pre-campaign in 2015 that pensions be frozen and this remained in the agreement we signed in November 2015 — it will soon do two years. Last year, we agreed, and well, in going further, promoting an extraordinary increase in pensions, which in Portugal are still very low. We believe that this increase must also be made in 2018. We have taken good note of Mr Jerónimo de Sousa's proposal for an increase in pensions by €10 — we think it is a balanced proposal and that it should have a bearing on this State budget, but there are two other matters that need a response. One of them is this: how are we going to respond to people who, having long careers, do not have access to the regime that has now entered into force, because they have already asked for early retirement, with 70 % penalty? I would tell the injured PSD / CDS, the injured Mota Soares, that they need justice in the next State budget. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u57	As for the second stage of the amendment of pensions, which was promised by the Government, the very concrete question I ask you is whether the end of the sustainability factor will be recorded in the next State budget. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u58	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u59	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, I thank you for your question and I also welcome you. As for the essentials of what you said, we agree. A key component of the success of economic policy is income replacement, which has to continue and will continue in 2018. From now on, this replacement of income will continue with the increase in the national minimum wage; it will certainly continue with the defrosting of careers in public service; it will certainly continue with the change of IRS steps; and it will certainly continue with the increase in pensions. With regard to pensions, we can now announce something important: as this year the economy will grow significantly above 2 %, this means that, by applying the formula of the law, this year the pensions will not only be updated to the 2 IAS (indicating social support) — all will be updated — as those of the lowest value will have an increase that is not only extraordinary because it results from the application of the formula of the law. contrary to what happened last year, in which there was no growth of the economy above 2 % and the only way to have had an increase above the mere replacement of inflation was to have made an extraordinary increase in pensions this year of the application of the law itself will already result to pensioners an increase above the inflation rate, which is obviously a very important component. We therefore certainly have good conditions in the next week to conclude the joint examination we have been making on the State Budget and, as you know, it has affected the whole of these matters. As we both know, the concrete answer to each of the questions depends on the answer to the whole of these questions, since they all influence each other on the optimal balance we will find, as we found in 2017 and 2016. I don't want to be annoying, but optimistic and confident, certainly. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u60	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u61	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I am glad that we agree with the principles. We now need measures to have the necessary dimensions to be concrete in people's lives. We need more steps of IRS and more progressiveness, not only as an indicator or measure that is said to be taken, but with enough size to be felt in people's pockets. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u62	Recovering income is making people feel, at the end of each month, that their salary, your pension comes up for a little more, and that is essential. [[Congratulations from BE.]] the same way, with the pensions. I'm glad we insist so much on defrosting pensions! We need to go further, we need to increase what still has such low values. But I remember, Mr. Prime Minister, that giving access to reform is a condition not only of dignity for those who have worked a lifetime, but also of access to the work of those who are now starting their active lives. Therefore, ending the sustainability factor should be a requirement that responds to the various generations of the country, to productivity, to employment and to the dignity of those who work. But, Prime Minister, there is another question I wanted to ask you about recovering income. It is that if there is one way, which is transversal to all social sectors, to recover income, that is to lower the energy bill. Download the light account immediately recovers wages and pensions for all economic sectors. And next year, the government has the opportunity for the first time to lower the bill of light. The Regulatory Entity has already made the accounts and has announced that since 2007 500 million euros have been charged more in the bill of light. Therefore, it is now up to the government to take the decision to have these 500 million euros returned and to prevent excessive charges for the future. Here in Parliament we have almost unanimously agreed with the sad abstention of the PSD, a recommendation to the Government for these excessive incomes to end. The very concrete question that I want to ask you is whether or not the Government will, within the framework of the renegotiation of CMECs ( Costs for Maintenance of Contract Balance ), allow the bill of light in Portugal to come down. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u63	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u64	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, I am sure so. Clearly, renegotiating will allow it to do so. On the other hand, in addition to what has been the work of ERSE ( Energy Services Regulatory Entity ), the Energy State Secretary himself, as is known, found that, on the curious reflection day of 2015, an order was made by the then State Energy Secretary, who, by violating the law, allowed to impact on the electricity tariff either the EESC (extraordinary contribution on the energy sector) or the social energy tariff. The deadline for hearing of interested parties for the declaration of nullity of this order and for the need for correction of what was wrongly charged to the Portuguese was now concluded on the basis of an illegal order of 3 October 2015 from the then Secretary of State for Energy. Therefore, there will certainly be a reduction in energy bill. With regard to pensions, I would like to point out that, indeed, we will have a very significant impact on the increase in pensions next year. Only with the measures that have already been adopted, in particular those which have had a gradual application this year, for the year, will we have, without further action, an increase in pension expenditure of EUR 928 million over this year. Now, EUR 928 million is the growth of pension expenditure, which, in order to have a notion of greatness, is more than 50% than the cut the right would have wanted, and would have done, if I were to rule the country, since I wanted to cut 600 million euros in pensions. But this increase that we will have, by applying the basic social security law formula, will entail an increase in pension expenditure of EUR 295 million. In order to have a notion, the cost of this year's extraordinary increase, which, as you know, only entered into force in August and therefore only the part of the year was applied, this cost is EUR 168 million. What we are going to have on the basis of economic growth is EUR 295 million. This means that the data in the discussion today are different from the time when, not yet certain that we would have an economic growth greater than 2 %, it made sense to discuss an extraordinary increase again. This debate is now being put in new terms in view of what is the result of the application of the basic social security law itself and in view of the robust economic growth we are having this year. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u65	In the use of the word, there is Mrs Catarina Martins. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u66	Mr President, Prime Minister, let us never forget that recovering income is not expenditure because when we recovered pensions or salaries, social security contributions increased by EUR 800 million with the job created. And when we drop taxes on work, we know that the economy is growing and, with that, there is more work. In the Left Block, we do not confuse what it is to recover income with expenditure, because we know that it is when we recover income that the economy gets better and the public accounts get better as well. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr. Prime Minister, note that he understands the set of recommendations that ERSE has made and that allow the energy bill to be lowered. We hope that the Government will follow these recommendations, because that will be a decisive step in ensuring that there is a bit of justice in the economy in Portugal and recovery of income by lowering the bill of light. Mr Prime Minister, we will have many topics to discuss in the Budget, particularly on public investment, on careers, on sectors where nothing has yet been done, such as culture or science, where everything is to be done, on housing too, because, as we know, there will be no response to that which is a constitutional right of the people. I am sure that in the coming days we will discuss this subject and also the subject of investment in housing in the municipalities. But, because the time I had to finish, I wanted to leave you just the following note: while in Portugal we celebrated autarchic elections in Catalonia, a referendum was violently suppressed.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u67	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u68	With this, I conclude, Mr President. What is happening, right now, in Catalonia, and the violent repression of the Kingdom of Spain is unprecedented and cannot have the silence of the Portuguese Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u69	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy. There will be time to discuss this issue later.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u70	The Constitution of the Portuguese Republic provides for the right to self-determination of peoples. Do not respect this right, in terms of words and the performance of the Portuguese Government, with whom we are here in an increasingly explosive and irresponsible situation by the repression of a State over a nation and a recognized community is a complicity which Portugal should not have. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u71	Mrs Catarina Martins, there will be time for discussion of this issue later, during the debate of a few votes. Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u72	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, I do not follow you in the view of the international issue you have raised, but I do, as you know, totally with regard to income policy. We do not need to convince each other, we only have to do that demanding and rigorous work, which is to know the measure of the step we can take. On the other hand, we are perfectly in agreement. If today we have the robust economic growth that we are having, while consolidating our public finances and having a very high private investment and significant confidence growth, this is due to the fact that we have returned to Portuguese tranquility and confidence in their expectations and incomes. Many no longer remember, but in 2015, when businessmen were asked why they did not invest, the main reason they pointed to their lack of investment was the lack of confidence of consumers and the lack of expectations they had about the development of the Portuguese economy. this year, we had a private investment as we had not been 18 years ago and this was based on strengthening consumer confidence. contrary to what the right wanted to convince the country, that it was necessary to crush wages, impoverish and withdraw rights in order to have competitiveness, what has been demonstrated was that, on the contrary, it was restoring incomes that created a climate of confidence, which has sustained economic growth. This is the trajectory that we have pursued on these different fronts: improving the national minimum wage, unlocking collective bargaining, disengagement of careers in the Public Administration, continuing to reduce taxation on work, continuing to improve pensions and improve incomes, so as to continue to build confidence in the growth of our economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u73	You want to finish, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u74	On that, we are both convinced. We're just missing us now, during the next week, making the right accounts, so we're both satisfied. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u75	To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Cristas of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u76	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I welcome you, in particular at the beginning of this Legislative Session, in which you brought us the subject of housing. I also welcome the fact that bringing this important issue, even because, in its previous functions, as President of the City Council of Lisbon, very little has done in this matter...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u77	The honourable Member, as Minister, has done less!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u78	...and, therefore, it is good that you can also bring us these aspects.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u79	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u80	What I would like to ask you, because the CDS has the habit of being very proactive and always a step forward, has to do with the following: in terms of housing, there are two State budgets that we have proposed to make housing rental more competitive, from a fiscal point of view, and we will certainly do so again in this State budget. I would like to know whether Mr. Prime Minister is available to give directions to his bench, as Secretary-General of the Socialist Party, to enable these CDS proposals. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u81	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u82	Mr President, Mrs Assumption Cristas, it is indisputable that it is a step forward, since it is author of the lease law that created the disturbance that has generated in families and in commercial leases in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is precisely this step forward that today it is necessary to correct, in order to have housing at affordable costs, peace in families as to the prospect of their lease, confidence by investors and tranquility and expectations in traders. It is precisely these changes that we have to make in our'step forward' to give families peace and security. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As far as concrete proposals are concerned, at the heart of the budget, we will appreciate them when they are presented. And yet, Mrs Deputy, who has now been elected as a Vice-President to the City Hall of Lisbon, because it can also help to correct, with one step forward, what I left to do while I was President of the House. I'm glad it can help to complete my work. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u83	You have the floor, Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u84	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I will do so - I will very much like it, all the more so now that the Socialist Party has lost the majority in the City Hall of Lisbon and I am proud to have contributed to it. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Therefore, you will certainly have to have another ability to dialogue and to listen to others. And in terms of rent reform, I am proud to see Lisbon with a great urban rehabilitation that it has to do with this reform.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u85	In Lisbon? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u86	Certainly, Lisbon and Porto, which were cities affected by the freezing of incomes. [[CDS-PP applause.]] I am also proud to know that in the last five years, the availability of rental houses in Lisbon has increased by 60%. It was therefore a reform which would certainly not have been perfect, but which protected the situation of the elderly from economic shortage and contributed to a strong investment in capital. So if anyone did anything, it was me, Prime Minister. And certainly I will-I will do it here and in the City Hall of Lisbon.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u88	But let's move on to another subject. I recall that on 31 March, Mr Prime Minister said and announced, with a pump and circumstances, that the sale of the New Bank would not entail any direct or indirect cost to taxpayers. In fact, his words were these: « Unlike the original proposal, no guarantee is granted by the State or any public entity ». It turns out that then we learned that there was, after all, a guarantee from the Resolution Fund. But still, the government said: « There is no problem, because the Resolution Fund is not the State ». However, two days ago, a resolution of the Council of Ministers was published in the Diário de República, which states: "It authorizes the conclusion by the Portuguese State of a framework agreement with the Resolution Fund, with a view to the provision of financial resources to the Resolution Fund, if and when it appears necessary for the fulfilment of the contractual obligations that may arise as a result of the sale of the New Bank's participation". So, Prime Minister, what I want to ask you is what this means. Are the Portuguese taxpayers, on the limit and if so, to be held responsible for the sale of the New Bank? Yes or no? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u89	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u90	Mr President, Mrs Christian Assumption, I remember that the explanation they have always given was that the Resolution Fund was not the taxpayers, it was the banks.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u91	Mr. Prime Minister, you said that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u92	The loan that the State makes to the Resolution Fund...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u93	To the banks!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u94	... is a loan that will be paid by banks to the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u95	by the banks, not by the taxpayers!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u96	Therefore, there is no State guarantee, there is a State loan to the Resolution Fund, which is another public entity. The loan shall be paid to the State by the Resolution Fund on the basis of the contributions of the banks. Therefore, it will be the banks and not the taxpayers to pay, Mrs Deputy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u97	You have the floor again, Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u98	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, in fact you are eximilar in the art of juggling: you began by saying that there was no responsibility of taxpayers, direct or indirect;...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u99	Direct or indirect!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u100	... then, in the book of charges, which will certainly have frustrated, for example, the interests of other candidates, there is no guarantee even from the Resolution Fund; then there is the guarantee of the Resolution Fund, clearly changing the rules; now it is the proposed State that lends money. And if there's a problem with the lack of payment of that money, who's going to pay?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u101	Christmas Father!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u102	They're gonna be the contributors! But here we will be to see, Prime Minister. As I have very little time left, I have to move on to another subject. Mr. Prime Minister, the degradation of health services is a subject that we have talked about many times in this Parliament: it is the exhaustion of health professionals, are the frustrated expectations of nurses and other professionals, it is the growth of waiting lists for surgery. Even today, the National Continuous Care Association (ANCC ) has been heard in Parliament, which has denounced very serious situations of scarce resources, of malfunctioning the network, when neither the payments that are agreed upon— nor those! — are paid in time and time. When we look at the monthly hospital debt observatory, we see that it continues to grow at a higher rate than last year, which was 30 million per month, and this year, on average, 40 million. The European Commission is already notifying the Portuguese State,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u103	Right today!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u104	...in the context of a non-compliance process, for violating the Directive on late payment. Mr. Prime Minister, there are postponed surgeries because, due to delays in payment, the surgical material does not reach the operations, there are patients who are asked to carry bed linen to the hospital. My question is: what do you plan to do about this matter and what do you plan to do in the State Budget for 2018? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u105	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u106	Mr President, Mrs Christian Assumption, you are a lawyer, so you know that, when there is a guarantee, anyone who gives the guarantee assumes an obligation. When a loan is made, the obligation is not assumed, a credit is contracted. What this contract allows is that the State assumes a credit on the Resolution Fund, which will be paid by the contributions of the banks. Therefore, the State does not guarantee anything, acquires a credit in order to charge the banks that payment.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u107	The state lends!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u108	I repeat the numbers that it is important to retain on the performance of the National Health Service : for 2016, we had more than 95 000 consultations in primary care units, we had more than 65 000 consultations in hospitals, we had more 118 000 surgeries, we have more 5800 new professionals in the National Health Service, we have more than 36 family health units of type A and type B. This is what we are doing, after four years of brutal disinvestment in the health sector, which resulted in a 7% cut in health investment. This is the reality, Mrs. Member. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Angel War.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u109	You still have the floor to Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u110	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, clearly, your reality always has pink glasses. This is not the reality of the users of the National Health Service,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u111	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u112	...that they wait and despair for their surgeries, many of them postponed because the material suppliers do not provide it until the debts are paid. So look at the debts and then we talk, because that's not just conversation, it's daily affect—day! — the quality of the provision of services. But, Prime Minister, I did not want to let the day pass without asking two more questions. And now I do this, giving him an opportunity to answer: three months have passed since the theft of Tanks — theft or not theft.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u113	The Tancos phenomenon!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u114	There have also been three months in relation to Pedrogon, but we are waiting for the independent report, which we will then have time to examine. As far as Tanks is concerned, I want to know where we are right now. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u115	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u116	Mr President, Mrs Cristas, regarding the National Health Service, her performance is measured by the results: we have more consultations,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u117	More debt!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u118	...we have more interventions, we have more units, we have more professionals. If it's perfect? Of course it is not perfect and it will take a long time to recover from the destruction it has suffered for four years of its governance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] But let me also say, Mrs. Member, that we are not proud of the payment deadlines,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u119	Aren't you?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u120	Ah...!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u121	... but we already know that they are better than they were in 2013 and 2014. [[Rice from PSD MP Angel War.]] Now the payment deadlines are better. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Deputy, with regard to Tankos, the government did what it was trying to do. First, when it was requested to invest in strengthening passive security mechanisms, it authorised that investment. Then, after the disappearance of war material has been detected,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u122	The "disappearance"!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u123	... there was an immediate meeting of the Internal Security System ( Internal Security System ) for risk assessment, information exchange and security action. Thirdly, the Ministry of Defence ordered military leaders to lift the security conditions of all military storage and to take measures to strengthen security. These measures were identified, adopted and are being implemented. On the other hand, with regard to what your curiosity arouses—and my curiosity is not less—, I am absolutely confident that, in the functioning of our justice system, I am sure to share with you, in order to have no doubt that the Public Prosecutor will, as quickly as possible, lead to the ongoing investigation. It remains to be trusted in the institutions and, in this particular case, in the Public Prosecutor's Office. Unless we should trust the Public Prosecutor's Office for all the less specific processes. But in that case, Mrs Deputy, you have to explain to me why in this particular case we should not trust the Public Prosecutor's Office. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u124	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u125	That's the government's responsibility!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u126	You still have the floor to Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u127	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, in this matter I speak to you about responsibilities and Mr Prime Minister systematically responds with « curiosity ».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u128	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u129	I think it is regrettable to hear a Prime Minister, in matters so serious, so essential to the sovereignty of a State, to speak of curiosity about the truth.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u130	It's funny!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u131	Surely the Public Prosecutor’s office has its function: it has its function in the clearance of criminal responsibility. But one thing is criminal responsibility, another is functional and disciplinary responsibility, and another, however much you want to deny, is political responsibility. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] And that's your government, it's your minister and it's yours, to the very end! It's your responsibility! What I regret is that we have a Prime Minister, a government that never wants to assume any responsibility, which kicks down, up and down, wherever it goes, but is always free of any responsibility. Everything that's good calls to you, what's not good is from others — it's from today's cable, perhaps. Mr. Prime Minister, to finish, let me tell you something else. We have spent a whole month listening to announcements about the State budget, all good news about the State budget. We'll be here to meet you in a week. But now I do not want to miss this opportunity to ask you two things: firstly, if you guarantee us that there is no tax, direct or indirect increase; secondly, if you guarantee us that there is stability in the area of IRC (tax on the income of the public), that there is no rise from the IRC, or if you will satisfy the Communist Party, which, moreover, is very distressed. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Mr Jerónimo de Sousa's PCP Member's laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u132	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u133	Mr President, Mrs Cristas, next week you will be aware of the proposal from the State Budget, of which you will probably say wrong. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u134	Then there will be an increase in taxes!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u135	There is one thing I can assure you: the proposal for a State Budget will, of course, disappoint you, because you will not follow that recipe that I heard yesterday defend you at the exit of the Belém Palace, which was the increase of the IRS (tax on income of natural people) on the incomes of work. No, there will be no increase in IRS taxation on labour income. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]] On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, with all honesty, what we have verified over these months was political irresponsibility — political irresponsibility! — of whom our Armed Forces were allowed to question, without the slightest rejection,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u136	You question the armed forces when he says what he says!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u137	...to make a political attack on the government on a matter that is not of the Government's least political responsibility — the final point! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u138	Mrs Assumption Cristas still asks for the floor. To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u139	To defend the honor of the bench, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u140	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u141	Mrs Deputy is not part of the management of the bench!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u142	Mr President, I cannot let Mr. Prime Minister put something in my mouth that I did not say and that is absolutely a lie. Yesterday, at the exit of the Belém Palace, I didn't say I was defending even an increase in IRS. So, Prime Minister, you can make politics, you can't do politics with lies. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u143	You have the floor Mr. Prime Minister to answer, if you understand.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u144	Mr President, Mrs Assunción Cristas, you don't need to get so upset. [[Protests from the CDS-PP and PSD Members.]] But I'll be more precise. Mrs. Member, don't get so angry! He gets very angry. He doesn't get so angry.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u145	The lie isn't worth it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u146	I appreciate it being more precise. The honourable Member said that she was concerned about the announcements of the reduction of taxes. However, as the only tax that has been announced is the IRS, its concern is even with the reduction of the IRS. Now you may want to « turn your kiss to the nail», but that's what I said, that's what you think and that's what you really don't want. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u147	Before moving to the CFP Parliamentary Group, I would ask the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, there's some silence. [[Pause.]] On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa now gives the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would also like to accompany the greeting made to the Portuguese who participated in the elections for local power, particularly as the election campaign took place, in a general framework of democratic normality. The answer to Mrs Christian Assumption will be given, because I always remember the fable of the frog that wanted to be boi. [[Laughing.]] Anyway, it'll be another time. Mr President, Prime Minister, today spending two years of the legislative elections for 2015, it is important to underline some central elements that characterize the reality and needs of the country. These two years have confirmed the defeat of the thesis that it was necessary and inevitable to exacerbate the exploitation and impoverishment of the people and the country and demonstrate that, if there is economic evolution, it is inseparable from the replacement of income and rights and that this path must continue to be developed and deepened. This is a first question that I put to you. But the situation in the country remains deeply marked by the lasting consequences of decades of right-wing policy, aggravated by the CEP (Stabilisation and Growth Programmes), by the pact of aggression, by external submission, by the growing monopolistic domain of the national economy. The structural deficits have long been identified in the productive, energy, scientific, food and demographic plans, also requiring structural and non-caustistic responses. The progress achieved in these two years cannot make the structural problems of the country which continue to be solved and cease to demand an alternative, patriotic and left-wing policy, which is far from being realized. The problem is not only of rhythm or intensity, it is of options to make them correspond to the interests of the workers and the people, to face the external constraints and to solve the problems of the country. over these two years, the government and the PS have been successively refusing changes to labour legislation on decisive matters for workers and the reality is there to dramatically confirm the consequences of this option: it is the attack on wages and the imposition of labour precariousness, that the process of transmission of establishment in PT / Altice is an exhilarating example, with dramatic consequences of the lapse of collective bargaining. But it is also the violence with which workers are being affected today in their working hours, with labour taxes per shift, work on Saturdays, deregulation of hours due to adaptability and hourly banks. Recent examples of the struggles of workers of PT / Altice, Autoeuropa or Somincor ( Sociedade Mineira de Neves-Corvo, S.A. ) they reveal all these problems. We can say that without the struggle of workers there are no rights that can be defended, but it is no less true that the political option is an element of great importance for defending workers' rights. That is why the question I put to you, Prime Minister, is what the Government is going to make about the repeal of the serious standards of labour law to curb the violence that is affecting workers in their rights and in their living and working conditions. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u149	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u150	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, over the past almost two years it has indeed been possible to make a political reversal, which has allowed a trajectory of income growth and job recovery. It was not only in the minimum wage, in the replacement of wages in the public service, in the hours of work and in the holidays that had been cut, it was also in the unlocking of the collective contract and in reality today we have an incomparably greater number of workers covered by the collective contract than we had two years ago. This was an investment that has been made and that must have continuity. We have presented a green book on working relations, in which we have been working with the partners of social dialogue, and so we will continue to do. The issue of precariousness is a central issue, where we have already taken very important steps in the field of public administration and we must also do so now in the field of private companies. This is an essential and central combat. The debate with the social dialogue on the Green Paper will end at the end of this year, which means that in 2018 we will be in a position, after that debate, to take up the political illusions and make the necessary advances. There are issues that are already under discussion in this House of the Republic, in particular the discussion which the honourable Member has pointed out regarding the transmission of establishment and the impact it has on some companies, such as PT ( Portugal Telecom ). It is a debate that is under way in the Assembly of the Republic, which seems to me, as much as I have followed, that there is a majority that can enable the adoption of legislation to combat precariousness as well. We will therefore, from my point of view, have good conditions to continue the policy change that we started two years ago, either from the point of view of income, or from the point of view of valuing rights and building a decent working society, and that is a common challenge that we will continue together. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u151	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u152	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, of course we appreciate what it is to value, particularly these progress made, but it always remains the fundamental issue in relation to rules that are decisive for the defence or the weakening of workers' rights. There are, however, other questions that I would like to ask you and which still have to do with the need to take the path of replacement and conquest of rights and incomes further. We note the evolution of the government's position in order to follow the proposal of the CFP to put an end to the 10% cut in unemployment benefit. This is a proposal for an important replacement of social justice, taking into account those who experience this dramatic situation of unemployment. For this reason, because we have been beaten by it, it must be carried out soon. There is another area in which the CFP has also taken decisive action and in which it is necessary to take new steps, which has already been under discussion today, which is the issue of the increase in pension pensions. After a lot of struggle, with a lot of PCP persistence, in 2017 it was possible to take a positive step with the increase in pensions by 10 €. We believe that this path needs to be strengthened and deepened in 2018 as well. The increase in pensions is an essential element in restoring the purchasing power lost by pensioners over the last 10 years. In addition, the development of the economic situation itself and the increase in social security revenues, however verified, demonstrate that the increase in pensions is fair, worthy and entirely possible to achieve. What results from the application of the law, mentioned here, of updating reforms does not arrive to the possibility of regaining the power of lost purchase, it is necessary to go further than the increase of 10 €, as we propose. After full working lives and lives, beaten in their reforms for many years, especially in recent years, we consider it essential to restore this justice to those who are in this situation as a pensioner or pensioner. It is an effort and a commitment that we must continue to make to respond to this desire that we are confronted every day by the people who have come to show the role of their reform, their devalued pension, and who call upon us to convince the government in the replacement of this justice that must be done by those who have worked their entire lives. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u153	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u154	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, as you know, the issues he raises are the subject of the common examination we are making regarding the proposal for a State budget for 2018. With regard to the elimination of the 10% cut-off in the unemployment allowance, a very important step has already been taken, which was to limit this cut-off in order to ensure that under no circumstances anyone would have the income below an IAS (social support indexer), i.e. 421, 32 €. The total elimination is a measure that has an impact of EUR 40 million, which we are seeing how we accommodate in the framework of the common examination we are doing. We have a week ahead, we will work and certainly try to find a good solution, as we did in the past, relatively, for example, to the extraordinary increase, which, on the proposal of the CFP, was introduced in the 2017 Budget, which for the year will have an application throughout the year and not only half of the year. Only this measure implies an increase of around EUR 190 million in spending on pensions, and in all the measures we have been taking — as I recently had the opportunity to say — if we did not take any more measures, we would already have an increase of EUR 900 million in relation to pensions. These EUR 900 million represent 50 % above the court that the right would want to make 600 million in pensions. Mr President, we all have a very heavy inheritance behind our backs. A voice from the PSD : - of the four years!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u155	It's not a four-year inheritance, it's decades! It is from the generations that started to work still children and to whom we began to respond to the changes we made in order to allow the longest careers contributing to reform at the age of 60 without any kind of penalty. We also have pensions that are very low and that have to see their value recovered. As I have recently drawn attention to the issue of higher pensions, there is a new fact that we need to take into account in our common examination, which is the fact that, having already ensured for this year a growth of the economy above 2 %, we will have for the first time the application of the rule contained in the Social Security Bases Act which provides that all pensions are updated and that pensions up to 840 € even have an increase greater than the mere increase in inflation. That is, all pensions up to €840 will already have an extraordinary increase in accordance with the Social Security Basics Act itself. I just don't say it's extraordinary because it's the result of the law. The fact is that, as in all these years, we have never had economic growth above 2 %, this has never been applied. This is a new fact, of great economic impact, of great appreciation of the generality of pensions and that we must bear in mind in our common examination, because it is certainly a great approximation to the ambition that we all have to re-evaluate pensions and the fight that, in particular the CFP, has been waged around the recovery of the most disadvantaged pensions. This is another component that will enrich the joint work that we will do in the framework of this common examination over the next week. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u156	On behalf of the Greens, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u157	Mr President, Prime Minister, on the State budget, we will certainly have the opportunity to continue discussing it, particularly when it arrives at the Assembly of the Republic. I would also like to reaffirm that for the Greens the issue of return on income and this path we have been pursuing is decisive, but we believe that this State budget cannot fail to respond to the structural problems of the country, particularly in the area of transport, in the area of combating regional asymmetries or also in areas as central as health or education, but this is a work that we are implementing and that we will certainly continue to do. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask you two specific questions about the issues you have announced today regarding housing. Mr Prime Minister referred to some questions which seem to me to make clear that State intervention is crucial for guaranteeing the right to housing for citizens, such is the state to which this has come and the speculative values that are being practised today. Mr Prime Minister announced an issue that the Greens have long defended: that of the State to take in the devolved houses and place them when available for rent. But we need to know more, Mr Prime Minister, we need to know what volume these houses are corresponding to, because only if it is a considerable volume is that this measure actually manages to combat these speculative market values. I wish Mr. Prime Minister could elucidate on that. I would also like you to elucidate us on another matter: what exactly is it for the Prime Minister to rent at affordable costs? In view of the fact that, for example in Lisbon, the average cost of renting was, recently, around €1450, what is for Mr. Prime Minister an affordable cost of renting?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u158	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u159	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, in the context of the common examination of the budget in which we have been working, namely to consider interesting and positive proposals which the Greens have presented, precisely in the field of transport, and which we will be going to work together, I cannot unfortunately quantify, but share with you the notion that volume intervention is necessary to have an effective impact on the market. One of the diplomas we have adopted today in the Council of Ministers is precisely aimed at concentrating all the scattered housing heritage of the State so that we can create scholarships that have sufficient impact, because there are housing units that are in the heritage of social security, in the civil hospitals of Lisbon, in Istanbul, in the General Directorate of the Treasury, in the Ministry of Defence, in the Ministry of Internal Administration, in the Ministry of Education... There is a lot of housing in the dispersed state, which we have to concentrate. The housing of the State is not only the one entrusted to the IHRU (Instituto da Habitação e da Rehabilitation Urbana), within the framework of social housing policies, there is a lot of scattered housing that can and should be properly organized to be placed on the market. Secondly, what is an affordable income? There are several criteria that can be set. I have seen, for example, municipalities defend the setting, pure and simple, of a value, of a ceiling. The rule we are adopting is that from a reference price per zone, income will be set at 20 % below the reference price. It is this methodology that will allow us to define what is an affordable income, varying depending on the areas, the location of housing and also the income index of families in each of the municipalities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u160	Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u161	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is perhaps in this issue of the definition of affordable income that we have more difficulty in agreeing because at least 20 % below does not mean an effective result of the principle that Mr Prime Minister recently announced, which is to which citizens can pay. Therefore, in certain areas, particularly in capital, Mr. Prime Minister may be creating a measure that will not reach what is commonly referred to as the'middle class' or the most disadvantaged classes, because prices remain quite high. In fact, this is a question that deserves to be discussed, because to so many of us we are at risk of creating a measure that will not later have the effective result that we would like to see continued and that is fundamental, that it is to attack these absolutely speculative values of the market and inaccessible to people. Make them accessible can not only be 20 % down, it does not arrive, Mr Prime Minister, but we will certainly have the opportunity to discuss it. Another point which, very quickly, Mr President, I would like to ask the Prime Minister about the extreme drought situation that Portugal is going through right now. We have a very serious problem in Portugal. Mr. Prime Minister, we cannot create plans and programmes to be closed in the drawer. The National Programme for the Efficient Use of Water (UNEP), which is not met, exists in Portugal for years, and we are now facing this situation. What concrete measures, Prime Minister, is the Government taking for the implementation of UNEP and also for the revision of the Albufeira Convention, to ensure minimum ecological flows in our international rivers? Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u162	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u163	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am going to stop more on the first part than on the second part. I'm sorry. For the first part, I indicated the goal that we are eight years old. The rate of effort of families with housing in Portugal is much higher than the European average: in Portugal it is 35 % and the European average is 27 %. We want to converge in eight years for this rate of effort with housing by families and, for this, we actually have to combine a set of instruments: public supply and also the mobilization of private supply. And here we combine three types of instruments: the public supply by the state, the public supply by the municipalities and the creation of incentives for part of the private stock assets to also be allocated to affordable income. What we are committed to doing is being complementary to the municipalities and, therefore, in relation to the state heritage, we will adopt the same rule as the municipality adopts for its own heritage. In the case of Lisbon, the President of the Chamber has said that affordable income must range from 300 € to 400 €, depending on family income. We will adopt the same rule as the House adopts.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u164	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u165	I shall now conclude, Mr President. If the rule in Porto is different, we will adopt, in relation to our own heritage, the rule adopted in the city of Porto, respecting the decentralization and the confidence that we have that whoever manages the heritage is in better condition than the central state to define what is the affordable income for each of the specific markets.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u166	Mr. Prime Minister, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u167	I will now finish, Mr President. With regard to private individuals, I have indicated that 20 % rule for reference prices, because we have to have a balance between the loss of income and the compensation that the incentive gives, on the ground that we are left with a solution that does not actually encourage anyone to place the houses on the market. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u168	Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u169	Mr President, Prime Minister, who has started another school year, today we bring the concern of many parents about the poor quality of meals in schools and kindergartens. I have visited public schools and once again found that nutritional options are defective in fruit orchards, prevailing saturated menus in sugar, processed and fried foods. Nor are the guidelines of the Directorate-General for Education for Automatic Selling Machines being met. Mr. Prime Minister, success in school also depends on a healthy diet and today's children, who do not have healthy eating habits, will be the adults of tomorrow who will press the National Health Service already weakened. The State must once and for all bet on counseling, programming and nutritional follow-up by qualified professionals. I would therefore like to ask you, Prime Minister, whether the NAP proposal on strengthening nutritionists for the National Health Service and for public school will finally have an expression in this State budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u170	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u171	Mr President, I already have less than one minute and 27 seconds and, therefore, I will only aggravate the time deficit! [[Pause.]] Now, time has passed positive again! Mr André Silva, telegraphically yes, we are available to consider the NAP proposals under the 2018 Budget. The steps we have taken so far are modest: there has been a strengthening of nutritionists in health centers, there has been a work by the Ministry of Education, next to the schools, for an improvement of textbooks in the purchase of school meals, so that we can have a more balanced diet. But we share from their point of view, that the great investment to be made is in the quality of food since childhood, in order to prevent future spending on health and have a healthier level of population. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u172	Mr André Silva continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u173	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, another matter of concern to the NAP concerns the extreme drought that the country is going through. With regard to energy management, government options have been costly and ineffective in combating drought and climate change. The construction of new dams does not serve to produce electricity, only to direct public money to the energy monopoly. Portugal destroys ecosystems by building dams that are empty, which obliges the production of electricity from coal burning. However, contrary to what would be sensible, these industries are exempt from the payment of ISP ( oil products tax ). Mr Prime Minister, we do not understand why a citizen, when he tests his car or buys a gas bottle, pays ISP and these industries, which are responsible for 20 % of greenhouse gas emissions in Portugal, are exempt from paying this tax, with losses of annual revenues to the State of many million euros. Mr. Prime Minister, put this on, in this State Budget, are we going to charge who else pollutant?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u174	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u175	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we will have the opportunity to discuss the measures of the Budget. With regard to drought, we have adopted measures, both prevention and water management measures — at the moment, the indication that until very recently, there were problems of supply in two dams in the Alentejo and there is still a third situation, which is new in the Viseu region — or at the same time of support for agriculture, to compensate for the risks of insufficient water for crops and, in particular, for animals. There is a question to be dealt with with with with Spain, and Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has mentioned recently, which is about the 20 years of the Albufeira Convention, we will revisit the theme of the Convention with Spain, in order to have a more adequate management of the effectiveness. But if you follow the debate in Spain, you will find that, unfortunately, the problem of drought is not just at the bottom of the table, you are also at the expense of a large part of our international rivers, where the problem of their watersheds is critical in the neighbouring country. We must discuss and deal with this in a solidarity way between neighbours in order to ensure the best levels of ecological flows for all and in the interests of all populations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u176	Mr. Carlos César has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister and Mr. Member of the Government, in the first debate of this Legislative Session, I begin by welcoming all parliamentary parties and reaffirming the commitment of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, a commitment to support the Government in fulfilling its Programme, but also of continuity in the constructive dialogue with the left parties, with which we maintain a privileged relationship, a commitment for constructive dialogue with the Member on behalf of the NAP, a readiness commitment for political consultation with the opposition parties, especially when relevant matters are involved that advise their accession, on the basis of national interest. With everyone we want to work and we want to do it - the same with those who, out of misunderstanding, teimosia or spite, sometimes discouraging Portuguese in Portugal, sometimes harming Portugal abroad, have often missed the call of their country and always resist the repair that was due to the Portuguese, after the time of injury and injustice of the governance CDS / PSD. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We also reaffirm our commitment to the best institutional relationship with the President of the Republic, with the parliaments and governments of the autonomous regions in whose defence of legislative autonomy we are, historically and irreversibly committed, and also with the bodies of the democratic local power, re-energized in the election of 1 October. We welcome the renewal of the commitment made by the Prime Minister to relaunch the process of decentralization. The reform of decentralization, in its gradualism and in the perspective in which we define it, respects fundamental principles, such as the adequacy of financial, heritage and human resources that we must do for local power with its transfer of competences and also that of safeguarding the universality and quality of public services, especially in more critical dimensions such as, for example, in the case of education. We are convinced that the parties on the right and on the left will not neglect the possibility of moving forward in this reform. In fact, to deny the possibility of this progress, although it is expected that in the Portuguese democratic acquis, giving in to centralist prejudices that have always congested administration and hampered the adequacy and readiness of the political decision, it would be to subtract from local populations and communities a set of opportunities and powers that, in their hands, strengthen citizenship. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the challenge is also to put housing policies in the order of priorities. That's fundamental. Although we have already achieved significant progress for Portuguese families over the past few years and after the period of intense degradation with the CDS / PSD Government, the fact is that, while housing is at the same time a factor of social cohesion and economic activation, there are still many families in inadequate or precarious housing situations and much work and correction to be done by the Government. This must be a plan of the Government of the Socialist Party, in this legislature. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I therefore conclude by stressing that in decentralization, such as in housing, the will and determination of politicians and the autarchs is fundamental. I therefore welcome this opportunity, considering these and many other challenges, the elected autarchs last Sunday. The results of the authentic elections, it is good that this is recorded in the Journal of Sessions, gave the Socialist Party an impressive victory,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... with more votes, more percentages, more presidency of local bodies and more mandates. It was the best ever result of the Socialist Party. The PS alone had more votes than all the right. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PSD has always had the worst result, in fact, the intervention of the parliamentary leader of the PSD, still today, here, explains many of the reasons that have given rise to this depressing vote of the PSD in the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There is no doubt, the PSD thinks it should do the same thing waiting for different results. Paraphrasing Talleyrand, at the time of Napoleon's abdication, they «They learned nothing, they forgot nothing». [[P.S.'s applause.]] But it is also good to remember that the CDS alone had fewer percentages, fewer votes and fewer terms of reference than it had in the last autarchic elections. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And the left, as a whole, had almost 1 million votes more than the right related or not. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In the absence of legislative elections, these elections, as the PSD leader said, have a national reading and meaning and this reading can only be the defeat of the past right and the approval of the performance of the Government led by the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, I am sure we will certainly honour this support that we have received from the Portuguese and Portuguese, knowing that there is much to do and improve in the government and much to improve in the country. Good work, Prime Minister. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u178	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u179	Mr President, Mr Carlos César, I take this opportunity to be V. Ex. President of the Socialist Party also, to facilitate the Socialist Party for the results it achieved last Sunday. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I cannot fail to record — even though Mr Lopes Soares is on the phone — that indeed the opposition has learned nothing, nor has he forgotten anything. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They've changed from parliamentary leader to... [[So what?]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u180	... they seem to be now to change as party leader, but what doesn't change is their thought, their speech, they continue there, imprisoned in the past. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The fundamental reason why there was an effective reduction in abstention as there had not been 24 years ago is the new political framework, generated by the elections two years ago for this Assembly of the Republic, to have allowed a reconciliation of Portuguese with institutions and with democratic life. Today, there is more confidence in the Assembly of the Republic and its ability to generate plural solutions, placing all the parties representing the Portuguese in the governance space, ending 40 years of exclusion on a theoretical governance arc that boasts that there were first and second-deputies. Today, the Portuguese know that their vote is the same, they vote in which party they vote, because they are all citizens' representatives as well. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have two years of political and institutional stability, of relations between sovereign bodies, of strict respect for the independence of the judiciary, of good institutional cooperation with the President of the Republic, of good relationship with regional autonomy and of respect for the autonomy of democratic local power. All of this strengthened the confidence of the Portuguese in the institutions and this confidence also results from the fact that, step by step, the commitments made in the framework of the Assembly of the Republic, not only with the Portuguese but with all the parties which have held the positions they have translated into the Government Programme, have enabled us to fulfil all the commitments we have made towards the Portuguese. One of these commitments has to do with decentralization and this decentralization has to exist in respect, necessarily, for the equality of all citizens in access to the quality of public services. It is not because there is a strengthening of the role of authorities in health, education, social action that there will be less equality of any citizen in access to public school, the National Health Service or social protection. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in the same way, it is not because there is a strengthening of the competences of authorities in the field of education that will be be be beautified the pedagogical autonomy of schools, because it is with the autonomy of schools, with a strengthening of the competences of municipalities, that we will be able to have a public school closer to the people and that serves their territories better. [[P.S.'s applause.]] A good example of this is the fact that this school year is being marked by the experience of curriculum flexibility as a result of each grouping, of the specific needs of each educational community, so that the public school fulfils its role as an instrument for combating failure, promoting school success and social elevator that education has constituted in a democratic state and in a decent society, such as that which we want to build with equal opportunity for all. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But in this social state, housing is the first right, because without the right to housing none of the other rights is properly ensured. Housing is the basis on which the lives of families and the lives of communities are based, and that is why it is the right we first have to ensure. The national strategy of new generations of housing policies, seeking to respond to the poor populations, to the middle class, to the new generations, to the stability and security that families have to have in their housing contract, as well as to ensure accessibility in accessible conditions, according to income, the decrease in the rate of effort of each family with housing costs, are absolutely central objectives in order to be able to better manage the territory, families with better income, better conditions to face our demographic deficit and, at the same time, a strong factor of dynamizing the economy. It is in the pursuit of these policies that we will continue with the good results that the Portuguese have come to recognize and that they certainly wish to continue to benefit until the end of the legislature. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u181	Mrs. Helena Roseta has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u182	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, first of all, I would like to commend the Government for the approval, today, of this new generation of housing policies, implemented in various measures and instruments, and for the announcement, which it has just made here, that this new generation of housing policies will be put on the public consultation. Mr Prime Minister, I can assure you from now on that, on the side of the Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Party, you will have us all over the country, all over the territory, in all the neighborhoods to ask people to participate in the discussion of the new generation of housing policies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I can also tell you more, Mr Prime Minister: this debate at national level can, and must be the first step in building a basic law of housing that effectively comes out of public discussion and popular participation. I would like to tell Mr. Prime Minister that, in fact, we had here to hear a discussion about affordable income, a matter which, of course, will be discussed publicly, but this view of affordable income is certainly not the view that Mrs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now, the average income of families does not exceed 1000 €; therefore, affordable, for 1350 €, will not be sure. Mr Prime Minister, something we have already reverted from some wrongdoing in the laws of the previous government, particularly in the rental and income law, but there is a lot of work to be done. The question I want to put, and time is short, is very important. Since 1974, since the program SAAL ( Local Ambulatory Support Service ), the large programme of support for housing construction for deprived families, we have never again had a public housing program with participation of communities, with participation of residents'associations and however this participation is included in the Constitution of the Republic. The question is simple, Prime Minister: can you assure us here that this new generation of housing policies will restore and bring back to the discussion of concrete solutions the associations of residents with concrete support so that they can, in their communities and in their neighborhoods, promote the response to the serious housing shortages that remain? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u183	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u184	Mr President, Mrs Helena Roseta, it is impossible for me to answer a question from the honourable Member on housing, since only I can ask questions and the honourable Member answers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Deputy, since the Constituent Assembly, housing is your cause. I think she's a real author.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u185	Co-author!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u186	... co-author of Article 65. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. And, as you know, the little I know about housing I owe you to the seven years of working together that I had the privilege of having with you while we shared our mandates in the City Council of Lisbon. And if there's anything I don't forget about is how participation is absolutely essential for housing policy. Therefore, the national strategy was not adopted today as a definitive version, but was adopted today to go to public debate. This is because, I am sure that with the participation of all, the local authorities, the business associations, the associations of residents, the different collectives, the professional orders, we will have a national strategy that is not only the strategy of this government, but an effectively national strategy, with a new generation of housing policies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I also know that for the management of neighborhoods it is absolutely essential to have the participation of their associations of residents, and these are not a weird thing that is in the Constitution. Many of those who are only in national politics think that, but those who know well the land of the local world, of the neighborhoods that exist in the country outside and, of course, in this city—there is no need to go further— they know the importance of how the associations of residents are fundamental. They are fundamental in the Boavista neighborhood, in the Padre Cruz neighborhood, in the 2nd of May, in as many and as many neighborhoods, and the more recognition and responsibility they have and the more involved they are in the management of their neighborhoods and their built conditions we will have to have better neighborhoods and better edifice. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The ownership by people not only of their housing but also of their habitat is essential. The housing does not run out at the door of the house, the housing does not run out, even at the door of the building, the housing has to do with all the surrounding space and with the community of life that settles in each neighborhood, and there the associations have a fundamental function. I must tell you that in today's document adopted by the Council of Ministers there are at least two key references to the central role that the housing associations will have in building this new generation of housing policies. I know this, Mrs. Helena Roseta, is very much due to you and what you have taught us all about housing policy. Thank you very much, Mrs. Helena Roseta. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u187	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the first item on our agenda. I would like to thank the Prime Minister and the other members of the Government for their presence. of the second item on the agenda is the Budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2018, which has no time allocated for debate. We shall therefore enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot do so will have to signal to the Bureau and then make the presence, so that their presence at the meeting is considered. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 206 presences, to which are added those of the Members. Mr Pedro Soares, from BE, André Silva, from the PAN, Antonio Topa and Berta Cabral, from the PSD, making 210 registered Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote. Let us begin by voting vote No 397 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Despite the death of Antonio Clemente Menéres Manso, CDS-PP and subscribed by PS and PSD Members, who will be read by Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u188	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died this week Antonio Clemente Menéres Manso. Natural de Santa Marinha, Vila Nova de Gaia, graduated in Agronomic Engineering, specializing in agroindustries. The family ties to Customs of the Faith led him to look at the Tres-os-Montes, where he devoted himself to the agricultural sector of the region through the association movement and also in the exercise of positions such as that of Regional Director of Agriculture of the Tres-os-Montes and Upper Douro. He was the founder and leader of the Association of Oliveters of Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro, president of the General Assembly of the Customs Cooperation of the Faith, of the board of directors of the former Agroindustrial Complex of the Cachão and councillor of the Municipal Chamber of Customs of the Faith. He was the head of the Association of Producers in Integrated Production of Trás-os-Montes and Alto Douro and the Centre for Management of Tua Valley, having been honoured by the Portuguese Association of Horticulture with the title of Horticola de Honora Technique. The creation of many of the infrastructures and cultures that still mark the agricultural sector in Trás-os-Montes has given António Clemente Menéres Manso the designation of ‘father’ of transmountain agriculture. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic presents its condolences to the family and to the many associations in which it has served. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u189	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall then vote on vote No 398/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of Mr Manuel Martins, presented by the President of the HR and subscribed by PS, PSD and CDS-PP Members, who will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u190	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It was with deep sadness that the Assembly of the Republic became aware of the death of D. António Martins, Bishop Emeritus of Setúbal. D. António Martins was born in Matosinhos, on January 20, 1927. Graduated in Canon Law by Gregorian University of Rome in 1954, soon revealed his conception of religious life, close and solidarity, under the inspiration of the Bishop of Porto, D. António Ferreira Gomes. The exile of D. António takes him from the seminary and takes him to the parish of Cedofeita, where he develops a remarkable social work, particularly among the children of the parish. The return of the Bishop of Porto represents his return to the seminary, before his appointment, after 25 April, as Bishop of Setúbal. It is in the mid-1975 ‘ Hot Summer ’ which is named Bishop of Setúbal and his motto soon becomes ‘ I was born bishop in Setúbal, now I am from Setúbal ’. He took that land as his own, and the land adopted it as the bishop of the people of Setúbal. It was 23 years at the service of the diocese and the population of Setúbal, with a particularly visible action among the poorest and most excluded sectors of society. During these years, Setúbal went through several economic transformations and deep social crises. D. Manuel Martins always said ‘ present. ’ With his courageous words, his voluntary intervention and his generous gestures, he was able to capture the respect of the institutions and bring comfort to the most disadvantaged. It was the Human Rights Prize of the Assembly of the Republic. Meeting in plenary, the Assembly of the Republic now manifests its greatest grief at the time of its disappearance, conveying all solidarity to the diocese of Setúbal and to its relatives and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u191	Let's vote for the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 400 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of Jorge Listopad, presented by the President of the HR and subscribed by PS and PSD Members, who will be read by Secretary Idália Salvador Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u192	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It is with great sadness that the Assembly of the Republic testifies to the death of Jorge Listopad. Born in Prague, the present Czech Republic, in 1921, was since the 1960s based in Portugal. Jorge Listopad is a major name of Portuguese and European culture, having left its mark in teaching, through the foundation of the Higher School of Theatre and Cinema, but also in theatre, literature, television and music. He had a full life and throughout his life he crossed through with great references to national and international intellectual life. In addition to a reference in culture, Jorge Listopad was also a courageous example of citizenship and resistance to oppression. Among several international decorations, he was thanked by the ancient Czechoslovakia because of his role in the resistance to Nazism, a dark moment in the European history of which his own family was a victim. The recognition of the country that welcomed him in most of his life was made in many ways and in many awards and culminated in the award in 2015 of the Order of Infante D. Henrique. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its greatest grief to Jorge Listopad's family and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u193	We shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote on vote No 399/ XIII ( 3 ) was followed. a ) — Condemnation and regret for the criminal act in Las Vegas, submitted by the President of the HR and signed by PS, PSD and CDS-PP Members, who will be read by Secretary Sandra Pontedeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u194	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The horror struck the city of Las Vegas, in the United States of America on Sunday night. The barbaric attack was executed by a resident of the city who, cowardly, from 32. the floor of a hotel, fired on a crowd attending a country music festival. Tens of people died and over 400 were injured. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its most vehement condemnation of this criminal act and conveys its greatest sense of sorrow to the families of the victims, the United States of America and the people of America. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u195	We shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of what we have just approved, we will keep a minute of silence. The House kept, standing, a minute's silence. We shall now vote on vote No 391/ XIII ( 3 ). (a) — Condemnation by pollution and environmental degradation caused by pig farming, the NAP. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against PS, PS, CDS-PP and PCP, with votes against BE and PAN and with abstentions from The Greens and the PS Wanda Guimarães Member.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u196	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u197	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u198	It is to be announced that the CFP Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on the last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u199	Be registered. Mrs. Members, we shall vote on vote No 392 / XIII ( 3. (a) — Condemning the persecution and ethnic cleansing of the Rohingya minority in Burma, the NAP. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP and the PCP's abstention.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on vote No 395/ XIII ( 3 ). (a) — Condemning the violence and persecution of the Rohingya minority by the Myanmar military forces of the PS. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 407 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Of condemnation and concern for the worsening humanitarian situation in Burma, the CDS-PP. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the NAP.]] We shall then vote on vote No 396/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — All Portuguese teachers, on the occasion of the World Teacher's Day, of the CDS-PP and subscribed by a PS Member who will be read by Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u200	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is as follows: « World Teacher's Day, instituted on 5 October 1994, commemorates the signing in 1966 of the UNESCO Recommendation and ILO on the Statute of Teachers. But more significantly, he pays tribute to the dedication and evokes the work of teachers who contribute to the fundamental formation of successive generations. Agostinho da Silva said that «the master is the man who does not command, but advises and canalizes, calms and slows down; (...) he is not interested in winning, nor in being in a good position; to make someone better — here his entire program». The World Teacher's Day is the occasion to remind those to whom we entrust our children to grow in wisdom; those to whom we entrust the learning adults so that they can, at all times, build a better gift and seek a better future. The World Teacher's Day is the occasion to recognize the responsibility and merit that Portuguese teachers, our teachers, have in the education of all, whether in Portugal or abroad. A teacher, a teacher, will always be essential. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, greets and gives public praise to the dedication and professionalism of all teachers who daily play an essential role in the construction of our society. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u201	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to vote No 408 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Greetings for the celebration of the World Teacher's Day, the PCP and signed by a PS Member, who will be read by Mr Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u202	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Another World Teacher's Day is celebrated on October 5, 2017. Date chosen by reference to the same day of 1966, in which there was a special intergovernmental conference to discuss the situation of teachers in the world, held in Paris, at UNESCO's initiative, in conjunction with ILO. in it was adopted the recommendation concerning the teacher's status, which, 51 years back, maintains a huge current. To celebrate the World Teacher's Day is to say that there is no education without teachers and therefore without the appreciation of the teaching profession. The central role of these workers in the progress of education and for individual and collective development deserves the urgent need to stabilize and combat the problems affecting teachers today. Therefore, to point out this date is also to recall fundamental steps that must be taken and given daily by the dignity of the teaching profession, by combating time deregulation, unemployment, precariousness, professional instability and by fighting for their valorization at the level of rights, wages, careers and working conditions. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, welcomes all teachers who with their work, commitment and dedication play a key role in the progress and development of education in our country. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u203	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, let us vote on vote No 401 / XIII ( 3 ). (a) — From condemnation of the persecution of homosexual citizens by the Egyptian authorities, the PAN and the BE and signed by PS Members. [[The vote was put to the vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CCP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the Member of the CDS-PP Filipe Anacoreta Correia.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote on vote No 402 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Welcoming the revocation of the extinction of the National Reserve of Copper and Associates in Amazonia, the NAP. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, let us vote on vote No 403 / XIII ( 3 ). a ) — Condemnation for the omission in the protection of indigenous populations by the Brazilian State, the NAP. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP, in favour of BE, PAN and PS Pedro Bacellar de Vasconcelos and abstentions from PS, the PCP and the Greens.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to vote No 404 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Condemning the serious failure to comply with the welfare rules in the transport of live animals by the Portuguese State, the NAP, which will be read by the Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u204	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: "There are several testimonies that report the ill-treatment of animals that are transported live by sea to third countries, which have shocked the Portuguese. These ill-treatments are revealed in the lack of medical and veterinary care, in the failure to comply with the hygiene rules, in the lack of physical conditions to carry out the boarding of animals, among other aspects. The NAP and animal protection associations, national and international, have repeatedly denounced situations of serious non-compliance. Despite this, Portugal continues to promote the export of these animals, making the exception a rule. In addition, the Director-General for Food and Veterinary, when confronted with the dark images of RTP reporting in the 6th at 9th program, issued on 29 September, made sarcastic statements such as « animals did not smell the scent Channel » or « animals do not sleep on satin sheets ». The lightness of the statements made by the head of animal welfare in our country, in response to serious complaints of ill-treatment against animals, confirms that there is indeed institutional negligence in this area. instead of a decision by the competent authorities, the animals continue to be treated by the Portuguese State as garbage and the economic interests continue to prevail over the life, protection and welfare of animals. The Portuguese Parliament thus expresses its condemnation of the failure to comply with Council Regulation ( EC ) No 1 / 2005 of 22 December 2004 and Article 13. the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union by the Portuguese State as regards the protection and welfare of animals in the transport of live animals’.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u205	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Submitted to the vote, with votes against PSD, PS, CDS-PP and PCP, votes in favour of BE, Os Verdes, PAN and PS MP Maria Rosa Albernaz and abstentions from 14 PS (Carla Sousa, Diogo Leone, Elza Pais, Francisco Rocha, Hugo Carvalho, Isabel Alves Moreira, Júlia Rodrigues, Luís Graza, Marisabel Moutela, Paulo Trigo Pereira, Pedro Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Pedro Delgado Alves, Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, Wanda Guimarães) and 2 CDS-PP (João Rebelo and Teresa Caeiro).]] Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u206	Mr President, to announce that we will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u207	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr. João Ramos has the power to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u208	Mr President, to announce that with regard to votes Nos 403 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) and 404 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) the CFP Parliamentary Group shall submit a declaration of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u209	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we now have votes Nos 405 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Concerned about developments in the political situation in Catalonia, the PS, and 406 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Condemnation of police violence and repression in Catalonia, BE and the NAP and signed by PS Members, for which each parliamentary group will have two minutes to intervene. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u210	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the scenes we saw last Sunday I believe that they leave no one indifferent: peaceful people who left home with the desire to exercise the noblest act of democracy, the act of vote, to be stopped by police forces with a clear demonstration of violence that resulted, recognized, for example, by Amnesty International, 893 wounded and one dead. In our vote, we are not talking about self-determination, although we do not forget that the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic recognizes the right of peoples to self-determination; we are not talking about independence, even though we have been very present in memory of the struggle of peoples for independence, such as that which united our country with the independence of East Timor; we are talking about the purest act of democracy and violence that police forces have exercised on peaceful populations who only wanted to exercise their right to vote. So here, in the House of Portuguese Democracy, what is asked of Democrats and Democrats is whether they are silent in the face of police abuse over whom they only want to exercise their people or stand up in solidarity with the most noble act of democracy, which is to call the people to choose their destiny. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u211	Mr Miguel Morgano has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u212	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I believe that all of us believe that Spain is experiencing a serious crisis that should not be underestimated, and to that end we would recommend to this Parliament that our approach be sensible and balanced. In order to achieve this balance, we must take into account two concerns: firstly, that Spain is not for us, Portuguese, a country like any other, and I am not referring only to the excellence of diplomatic relations, to the depth of the relations that have established between the two peoples at all levels, especially in the democratic era; I am referring to the fact that Spain is a state of democratic law, built in historical parallel with us and based on a long, complex, laborious and delicate negotiation process around the question of autonomy. If Spain is recognized by the Portuguese State as a state of democratic law, when there is a unilateral rupture of order and legality, it means that it is the order of democracy which is called into question and from that moment on the State does not have the possibility to restore the order of legality, it has the obligation to rest! This is the first concern. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u213	The second concern, of course, concerns the escalation of tension between the parties in conflict and the possible abuse — and this is always the subject of concern — of the police force, but also of the growing environment of intimidation and conflict between the Catalans who want independence and those who do not want it. This second concern therefore causes us to redouble the call for a dialogue, a satisfactory negotiating solution, but we cannot address this problem in a balanced and sensible way without combining the two concerns. This would be a unilateral view of the problem, foolish and unfair for Spain, for Catalonia, but also for Portuguese interests. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u214	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u215	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Indeed, as a neighbouring country, ally and friend of the kingdom of Spain, the situation of Catalonia does not go unnoticed by this Parliament and, of course, we regard it with concern. But, as Mr Miguel Morgado has just said with all the relevance, effectively, the issue has a complexity that does not sympathize with hasty judgments and with a view that does not properly safeguard the fact that we are before a democratic rule of law, a state whose democratic constitution of 1978 was the subject of a referendum, which revealed a commitment to close the door to fascism and open the door to democracy and respect for autonomy. That is why, in this framework, respect for the Constitution, respect for legality, respect for the institutions, must, above all, be valued and placed as the key to solving the problem that Catalans and Spaniards live today. Having said that, of course, we cannot ignore the concerns that result from what we saw last Sunday. Indeed, the degree, the disproportionate use of force should not go unnoticed, should not fail to merit an observation of concern on the part of those who do not reveal themselves and who would prefer a different path. A separate path from both sides, a distinct path that all the institutions of the Spanish democratic rule of law and the European institutions have underlined as being the one to be sought: a negotiated solution, a solution based on dialogue, a solution based on full respect for the sovereignty of our neighbour, our friend, our ally, of the country which has been built simultaneously, as democracy, with us and which, therefore, must use its own means to achieve a solution to the conflict that we are living today. Obviously, solutions can surely be found when there is political will and models of territorial organization are not and should certainly not be an obstacle to the exercise of fundamental rights. We have faith and believe that the Spaniards will be able to find that same path through dialogue, through respect for democracy and through the construction of a solution that all of us, on this peninsula that we share and that we want to continue sharing in the same context of peace and prosperity, would like to achieve. That is why the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group underlines, with its vote, concern about the evolution of the matter,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u216	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u217	... but at the same time — and I will conclude, Mr President — it also does not stop to express concern about what we have seen and that we would like to have not seen, but that it certainly cannot be removed from the context in which it took place. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u218	Mr João Oliveira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u219	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Of course, the events that have taken place in Catalonia in recent days are a matter of concern and on the part of the CFP we wanted to leave two notes that seem essential to this problem. First, in order to say that the national issue in Spain cannot be assessed solely on the basis of more recent developments and events, it must be seen with the complexity that the history and reality of that country close, namely the history of the 20th century and the developments it has experienced, particularly since the 20th century. Secondly, to leave the idea that the resolution of the national issue in Spain, particularly in Catalonia, necessarily has to be found in respect of the will of the peoples and in the framework of a political solution and not in the unacceptable and condemnable use of coercion and repression, as has happened in recent days. Therefore, the CFP will translate, at the time of the vote of the two votes, which are different, the perspective it has for each of the votes. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u220	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u221	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In this regard, I would like to point out and express, first and foremost, a normal and logical concern. This question is not passed on to the edges of a distant reality, it is passed on in a country that is our neighbor, it is our greatest neighbor, with whom we have had a tense and sometimes conflicting relationship throughout our history and for centuries, but with whom we have, for many years now, a relationship of cordiality and partnership within the framework of the Iberian Peninsula, within the framework of the European institutions, especially since democracy was consolidated in both countries. The relationship between Portugal and Spain is therefore not indifferent to the way we look at this matter. And not only is it not indifferent as we have to look at it in a relationship between two sovereign states. It is appropriate even to say, for those who pull Portugal to the colloquium for possible comparisons with Spain's internal reality, or even Catalonia, and to remind those who are not remembered that we, Portugal, are a sovereign state very early, centuries earlier, to the existence of Spain itself. Therefore, our way of looking at these issues is from state to state in respect for each one's sovereignty, and it cannot be otherwise. I mean, we can obviously have opinions, but I don't think it makes sense that we want to replace ourselves or even rule our neighbor's house, so to speak. Such comparisons are abusive, including abuse—and I understand that it can be useful — a comparison between a consolidated democracy, such as the Spanish State, or Indonesia, for example at the time of the occupation of Timor. They are different realities, they are different states and we must respect democracy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u222	What about Scotland? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u223	Having said this, you cannot spend your life in invoking the Constitution, as you have done, almost wanting it to be literally fulfilled, and then saying that here the Constitution must be fulfilled, but with the Constitution of other countries it is indifferent; if we do not like it, they do not comply. It can't be, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u224	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u225	In conclusion, Mr President, with a very important note, if I may allow myself: the situation of violence is unacceptable, the excess of violence and even the excess of police violence to which we witness is obviously a factor of concern and this concern we accompany.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u226	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u227	We do not follow those who want to replace Spanish entities, we accompany those who, reasonably, want to wish for dialogue, wait for dialogue, because with dialogue there will be a good solution for Catalonia, Spain and Europe, but with violence there will be no good solution. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u228	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote. We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 405/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Concerned about developments in the political situation in Catalonia, the PS. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We turn to the vote on vote No 406 / XIII ( 3 ). a ) — Condemnation of police violence and repression in Catalonia, BE and PAN and signed by PS Deputies. [[Submitted to the vote, with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and 5 PS (Fernando Rocha Andrade, Idalia Salvador Serra, Luís Moreira Testa, Luís Vilhena and Nuno Sá), votes in favour of BE, PCP, Os Verdes, PAN, 2 PSD (Rubina Berardo and Ulisses Pereira) and 9 PS (André Pinotes Baptista, Bacelar de Vasconcelos, Carla Sousa, Helena Roseta, Hugo Carvalho, Isabel Alves Moreira, Luís Graza, Paulo Trigo Pereira and Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro) and the abstention of PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u229	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u230	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u231	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u232	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. Mr. Paulo Neves, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u233	Mr President, it is also to announce that I will deliver a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u234	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. Mrs. Members, we passed on to the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 155 / XIII — The first amendment, by parliamentary review, to Decree-Law No 86 - D / 2016 of 30 December, which assigns to the municipality of Lisbon the full assumption of the legal powers and powers with regard to the public service of collective passenger surface transport in the city of Lisbon, transfers the contractual position held by the State in the contract of concession of public service concluded with Carris and transmits all the representative shares of the social capital of Carris of the State to the municipality of Lisbon. We shall vote in special terms on the proposal submitted by the PS to amend Article 4. o -A ( Conditions of reversal) of Decree-Law No 86 - D / 2016 of 30 December, as set out in Article 3. that of that Decree of the Assembly of the Republic. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] It is as follows: Article 4 o -A Conditions of reversal Under the penalty of nullity of the acts committed, the Municipality of Lisbon cannot in any way withdraw the social capital of Carris from the companies by which it is fully involved, or the total or partial grant of its network to entities other than public law or solely public capital.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u235	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote on the new decree, with the amendment introduced. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1068 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Suspension of the period of operation of the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions, from 19 July to 29 November 2017 ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on Bill No. 579 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Elimination of the risk of asbestos in buildings, installations and business equipment ( The Greens ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] The bill goes down to 11. the Commission. The general vote on Bill No 618 / XIII ( 3 ) follows. ( a ) — Establish procedures and objectives for the removal of products containing asbestos fibres still present in buildings, facilities and private forum equipment, including private companies and private housing (NAP). [[The vote was taken by the votes of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS and PS abstentions.]] The bill goes down to 11. the Commission. Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1066 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government update the list of materials containing asbestos in the buildings, installations and equipment in which public services are provided and the subsequent removal, packaging and disposal of all waste (PAN) thereof. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1067 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government submit a report on the implementation of the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 170 / 2016 of 4 August and prepare a study aimed at creating incentives for the removal of asbestos in private installations for commercial, industrial or storage purposes ( PSD ). [[The vote was taken with votes in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN and with abstentions from PS, BE, the PCP and the Greens.]] We will now vote on the Budget of the Assembly of the Republic for 2018. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, the general vote on the drafts of lein. 496 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amendments to the legal-laborative regime and extension of social protection of work by shift and night ( BE) and 508 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strengthening the rights of workers in the night and shift work system ( CFP ) was postponed at the request of the respective authors. Let us therefore vote on opinions from the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees. I would like to ask Secretary Idália to read them.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u236	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the General Judiciary of Mealhada, of the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Aveiro, Case No 192 / 16.7/T8MLD, the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Maurício Marques ( PSD ) to intervene in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u237	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you are in appreciation. [[Pause.]] No word requests, we're going to vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] You would like to continue, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u238	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in accordance with the request by the Criminal Instruction Judge of Santa Maria da Feira — Judge 2, of the Court of Justice of the Land of Aveiro, Case No 448 / 16.9T9VFR-H, the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mrs Helga Correia ( PSD ) to intervene in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u239	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you are in appreciation. [[Pause.]] No word requests, we're going to vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Please proceed, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u240	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Local Court Cable of Montijo, Court of Justice of the District of Lisbon, Case No 2328 / 17.1YIPRT, the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Duarte Pacheco ( PSD ) to intervene in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u241	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you are in appreciation. [[Pause.]] No word requests, we're going to vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] You would like to continue, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u242	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in accordance with the request by Judge 6 of the Central Criminal Court of Lisbon, Court of Justice of the District of Lisbon, Case No 931/15.3TDLSB, the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr Rui Riso ( PS ) to intervene in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u243	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you are in appreciation. [[Pause.]] No objection, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] You may proceed, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u244	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of Judge 2 of the Coimbra Criminal Instruction Court, Court of Justice of the Comarca de Coimbra, Case No 130 / 13.9TASRE, the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr João Gouveia ( PS ) to intervene in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u245	You're in appreciation, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Pause.]] No word requests, we're going to vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] You would like to continue, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u246	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in accordance with the request by Judge 2 of the Criminal Instruction Court of Faro, Court of Justice of the Comarca de Faro, Case No. 1484 / 14.5TAFAR, the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees decided to issue an opinion to authorize Mr José Carlos Barros ( PSD ) to intervene in the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u247	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you are in appreciation. [[Pause.]] No objection, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u248	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u249	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u250	Mr President, I would like to rectify my vote on vote No 401 / XIII ( 3 ). (a) — From condemnation of the persecution of homosexual citizens by the Egyptian authorities, the PAN and the BE, because I really wanted to vote in favour and not abstain. I'd like it to be recorded and I apologize for the lapse.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-04.u251	It shall be recorded, Mr Member, and shall be corrected for its vote. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of today's agenda. The next plenary session will be held on 11 October, Wednesday, at 3 p.m. and will have the following agenda: the first point is political declarations; The second point follows the assessment of petition No 172/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — They request an amendment to Decree-Law No 10 / 2015 of 16 January ( Access and exercise regime for various trade, services and restoration activities and establish the respective counter-ordering regime ), in order to allow for the entry of animals into commercial establishments ( André Silva et al.), together with the general assessment of draft law No 172 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Possibility of permit of animals in commercial establishments ( amends Decree-Law No 10 / 2015 of 16 January 2015 ( PAN) ; Finally, petitions Nos 190 / XIII ( 2 ) will be examined together. ( a ) — Recognition of the police profession as « rapid wear occupation » and amendment of the Statute of the PSP ( Autonomous Union of Police — ASAPOL ) and 235 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — They request the inclusion in the Professional Statute of the Public Safety Police of the status of a rapid wear professional ( Trade Union Association of Police Professionals — ASPP / PSP ). I wish you all a good 5th of October. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 55 minutes.]]
