ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 14 hours and 35 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries, please. Before we begin the agenda, I will give the floor to Mr. Secretary to proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members, entered the table and were admitted the projects of lein.os 568 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Assistance to bathers ( The Greens ), which falls to 3. the Commission in connection with 10. the Commission, 569 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Establishs the responsibility of the employer for the compulsory training of workers in public functions and for the renewal of the qualifications indispensable for the performance of their functions, by amending the fourth General Law on Public Works, as annexed to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June ( PSD ), which falls to 10. the Commission and 570 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Establish a set of urgent measures to support the victims of large pedrogon forest fires and to strengthen fire prevention and combat ( CFP ). They gave, still, entrance...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u3	Mr. Secretary, I'm sorry to interrupt you. Mrs. Members, I ask you to remain silent, because otherwise it is almost impossible to hear what is so important is being read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco. You want to continue, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. President and Mr. Members have also entered and draft resolutions Nos 970 / XIII ( 2 ) were also accepted. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures for the recovery of low commercial value fish ( CFP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 971 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the development of campaigns to stimulate the consumption of carolin rice produced in Portugal ( CFP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 972 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends the assumption of a timetable for the completion of the Lower Mondego hydro-agricultural work ( CFP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 973 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — To solve the pollution caused by two processing units installed in Arrifana - Santa Maria da Feira ( The Greens), 974 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Depollution of the banks of the Good Water ( The Greens), 975 / XII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government suspend the development process of the very high voltage line that will cross Barcelos ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 6. the Commission in connection with 11. the Commission, 976 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government proceed to the early preparation of a plan for the urgent implementation of rehabilitation works at EB 2, 3 Avelar Brotero, in Odivelas ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 8. the Commission, and 977 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government update the list of agricultural and forestry equipment that can be used by colourful and marked gas oil ( PSD ), which falls to 7. the Commission. In terms of file, that is all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we start our debate today, I would ask for some silence in the Chamber, since noise does not come from the galleries. So I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who are standing or then who are leaving the Chamber. [[Pause.]] The basic conditions for starting the debate on the state of the nation are now being created, I give the floor to Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: on the day immediately following the exit of Portugal from the Excessive Challenge Procedure, the Portuguese were suddenly shaken with the greatest human catastrophe in recent decades. In less than 24 hours, we passed from relief to constancy, from satisfaction to revolt, showing how, before the primacy of human life, everything else has relative value. None of us will ever forget that day, and we have the duty to do everything to keep up with the memory of those who have died, the pain of their family members and friends, the terror of the people threatened by the flames, the courage and the brightness of those who have fought the fire, those who have managed the rescue, the technicians who investigate the event, the gratitude due to the prompt international aid, the current of solidarity that has traveled throughout society, showing once again the extraordinary capacity of the Portuguese to join and mobilize to overcome adversity. What is required of us today is very clear: two immediate tasks and facing a structural challenge. First, rebuild what was destroyed and restore the productive capacity of the affected territories. The government is working very hard in collaboration with local authorities, and today the low and medium-voltage lines are being re-established, the communication fiber cables and the first three housings have begun to be rebuilt. Secondly, to clarify fully what has happened and, depending on the facts, to establish responsibilities, whatever their nature, because we all have the right to know and we all have a duty of complete transparency before the citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would like to reaffirm here that, without prejudice to the information and evaluation that the public bodies have produced or are concluding or from the scientific studies you have requested, the Government will give all the collaboration and support to the criminal investigation opened by the Public Prosecutor's Office and the independent technical committee constituted by a proposal from the main opposition party in this House. But, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what is essential, which is structural in order to avoid new disasters, is to face the challenge of revitalizing the interior and reordinating the forest. [[P.S.'s applause.]] If there are answers that we still do not have, because the investigations are still under way, there are solutions that we know that the country has long waited and cannot continue to wait. That is why the Government created the Mission Unit for the Valorization of the Interior in March 2016 and that is why, in October last year, it launched the forest reform, which has been under discussion since April in this House. We cannot continue to regret that the great problem is the abandonment of forests and not the adoption of the instruments of mobilisation of land for abandonment. We cannot continue to justify that the micro-forest mini-funding does not generate sufficient income and we do not create the associative, private or public structures that allow the necessary economic recovery of the forest. We cannot continue to say that the problem is that we do not know the owners of millions of hectares and do not approve mechanisms that finally speed up the completion of the register. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We cannot continue to demand the end of the eucalyptus monoculture and not stop the expansion of its planting area. We all know this, and even this, that it is necessary to do and we cannot continue to delay because we fear the economic impact on the paper industry or because we are afraid of the inevitable popular revolts against the demarcation of property. Is it difficult, it takes time and only in the long run produces results? Yeah. Three times yes! It's hard, it takes time and only in time it produces results but much more difficult is to let go and much more time we'll lose if we start later. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I therefore once again call on the joint effort to consensualize this structural reform for the future of the country. And the best way to say "never again" is to launch in these seven municipalities martyred by the fires of Pedrogão and Góis a pilot project of the policies of revitalization of the territory and forest reorganisation. Thus, and for this purpose, we will relocate to Pedrogon the Mission Unit for the Valorization of the Interior, so that you can directly execute it on the ground. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate on the state of the nation is also a moment of general balance and anticipation of the country's future. There are five indicators that mark the last year. First and foremost, the priority of our economic policy, employment. More than 175 000 new jobs have been created since the beginning of 2016 and the unemployment rate has declined to 9, 5 % in the context of an increase in the active population. Secondly, the decisive creation of confidence in economic actors. Consumer confidence is in the highest value ever and the economic climate has reached the maximum of the last 15 years. Third, the investment. In volume, investment in the first quarter of 2017 has had the largest growth in counterparts in the last 18 years and advanced indicators show the maintenance, or even acceleration, of current growth levels. Fourthly, the growth of the economy sustained in employment, investment and confidence. After the recovery in 2016, GDP has reached the highest growth in the first quarter of this year since the beginning of the century, finally recommencing convergence with the euro zone. Fifth, for the first time in the last 10 years, the country has met the budgetary targets, registering the lowest deficit in our democracy and ensuring the exit of the excessive deficit procedure. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yes, there was a real choice! And the government and the majority have complied with the alternative they have committed themselves to. The good results we have achieved are not the result of one chance; they are the good results that emerge from the good policies that we have been able to adopt. After all, we did not need to continue to impoverish or destroy labour rights so that the export of marketable goods had, in May, a similar growth of 15 to 4 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] After all, we did not need to increase the tax burden or cut pensions and social support to consolidate our public finances. on the contrary, it was the new income policy and predictability of the decrease in the tax burden that generated confidence and was the incentive to invest and qualify workers who improved our competitiveness. This is the way we must continue to have more growth, better employment, more equality: investing in knowledge, innovation and dignity at work. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. It is also true that we are still far from the levels of growth, employment and equality that we aim for Portugal and for Portuguese. Progress is a goal that requires persistence and requires sustained and sustainable policies. A strong state, which guarantees national defence, internal security, and justice close to citizens, but at the same time a modern, agile, effective, intelligent and strategically enterprising state. A State that guarantees access to all public services of quality, that combats inequalities, that stimulates civic participation and that contributes to social and territorial cohesion, from the outset, strengthening investment in health and education as the fundamental rights of citizens. at the stage of the debate, Minister Adalberto Campos Fernandes will have the opportunity to present what we are and will continue to do to ensure a National Health Service that responds more and more to the needs and expectations of citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in education, we will deepen the strategy to combat the deficit of qualifications — the real structural deficit of the country — by promoting the success of the new generations and opening up new opportunities for the old generations. next school year, we will have two new important contributions to promoting school success. On the one hand, benefiting from the new evaluation model, we will have greater pedagogical autonomy in flexible curriculum management and, on the other hand, the reduction of the number of students per class in schools in priority educational intervention territories. There will be two excellent contributions to improve education success policy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Housing must be a new priority area in public policies, now addressed to the middle classes and especially to new generations, not condemning them to indebtedness or abandonment of the city centre, promoting, before, the offer of housing for affordable rent. in the government adjustment that I will present to Mr President of the Republic tomorrow, precisely the empowerment of housing as Secretary of State is envisaged. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But the State's strategic intervention capacity can only be improved if we strengthen and modernize the Public Administration, promote innovation in the public sector and value the exercise of public functions. We will therefore continue to engage in the Simplex+ Programme, seeking to simplify more and more people's day-to-days and reduce the cost of context for businesses, and we will put into operation the Competition Centres, which, through the concentration of qualified skills in specialized fields, will allow to reduce external recruitment and strengthen knowledge and know-how within the Public Administration. The value of public service work will also continue to be a priority, as provided for in the Government Programme, and as planned in 2018 we will start the process of defrosting careers. For real social and territorial cohesion it is still essential to put the process of decentralization in place, and there is a lot to discuss in this House of the Republic. The example of public transport is very impressive. After years and years of losing passengers, under the management of the State, STCP (Sociedad de Transportes Coletivos do Porto, SA) has already recovered this year, 7% of passengers and the new Caris fares allowed more than 470 000 travel/month to users over 65 years and more than 100 000 trips/month for children up to 10 years. for the first time in 17 years, Carris opened two new careers yesterday, going to open three more by the end of this month, and even today the administration of STCPs awarded the acquisition of 173 new buses, moreover, produced by the national industry. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is also the example that we can replicate if we release from centralism the areas in which, as the experience has shown, we can and should rely on the municipalities and the parish, which can do more and better than what the central state can do. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we need to think beyond the current legislature and design for the decade a medium-term vision that simultaneously reinforces external competitiveness and internal cohesion as a basis for continued and sustained convergence with the European Union. There is more life beyond this legislature and the need to prepare Portugal after-2020 imposes the opportunity of this debate. We started on 19 June, at the Territorial Concertation Council, the evaluation, with the autonomous regions, local authorities and metropolitan areas, of the general lines of the priorities of the post-2020 programme, which we will extend to the Economic and Social Council and which will promote in this House the reopening of parliamentary work. The matrix in which we work is based on two horizontal axes and four territorial axes. Two horizontal axes: innovation and knowledge; qualification, training and employment. Four territorial axes: energy and climate change; sea economy; integration into global networks and markets; internality and the Iberian market. It is a matrix based on a clear development model: to be more coherent internally, to be more competitive in the global economy and thus strengthen a decade of convergence with the European Union. In short: three C — competitiveness and cohesion for convergence. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are here, in this debate of the state of the Nation, responding to the emergency, persisting in the successful realization of the political change that marks this legislature and with a strategic vision for a decade of convergence, which, together, we and we want to continue to build. [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u7	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get into the debate. We have a first round of requests for clarification. Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister : Mr Prime Minister has just done his reading on the situation in the country and we in the PSD will not fail to do the same in the intervention which will follow this first period of questions. However, we wanted to tell you the following: the government comes to this debate in a process of irrefutable degradation. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u9	The government is collapsing. The government loses authority every day. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u10	Is that a description or a wish?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u11	The country has already realized that in difficult times, in contradictions, the government has no leadership or, at least, has very fragile leadership. [[PSD applause.]] This government has always had a fragile Prime Minister for the lack of votes of voters,... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u12	... but now this government also has a fragile Prime Minister for incapacity, for passivity, for lack of leadership.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u14	Mr Prime Minister, you have never had electoral authority but you arrive at this debate with your much diminished political authority. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u15	For us, who are opposed, this is not exactly a problem in itself, the problem is Portugal. Portugal is wasting time with this government, Portugal is losing opportunities with this government, and the state is being wounded, hit on its fundamental pillars: on the pillar of security, protection and protection of people and goods, and on the social pillar, on health, on education and on transport. [[Mr. P. João Galamba's laughs.]] Mr. Prime Minister, when in a fire, you said, in a television interview, that was one of 156 people, killed 64 people and more than 200 people were injured, when government members say different things about what happened and when public bodies, many of them under the same ministerial protection, contradict themselves in public, when the State, through the government, and then even a proposal from the PSD, does not create an expedited compensation mechanism at the service of the victims and, above all, when the State failed objectively, as Mr. Prime Minister there recognized, to save those who fled the danger, the State collapsed. Mr Prime Minister, when your SIRESP system ( Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks in Portugal ), which you created, that you have decided, that you are the author, failed at the very moment you could not fail, the State collapsed. [[PSD applause.]] When there is a military arms theft that no one can understand or explain, even when the government, by the voice of its return « service fireman», Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs – who had already performed this fireman role in the governments of José Socrates and has now reacquired that function in the Government of Antonio Costa - then said something and its opposite,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u16	That must have been your leader!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u17	... soon he said that this theft did not affect the image of the country until the next moment he said that after all it had a reputational cost. And, Mr. Prime Minister, when you assume, as you assumed, the seriousness of the situation, when you exonerated five commanders and then, with pump and circumstance, you take no responsibility but relativize the matter, almost saying it is insignificant, Mr. Prime Minister, you are not being assured, you are affecting the dignity of the Armed Forces... [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] ...and it's instigating a model of deresponsibility. Mr. Prime Minister, his political coverage of this confusion and his patronage to deresponsibility also contribute to the collapse of the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u18	State collapse! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u19	Your cuts, too!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u20	Mr. Prime Minister, when the country, astonished, is still awaiting clarification and the consequences of the leaking of the content of a national examination, almost as it seems that nothing has happened, which has not been benefited or damaged, the State is not responding, the State is collapsing, Mr. Prime Minister. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] When, a year ago, the Prime Minister did not take any political consequence of the conduct of government members who would have travelled on invitation and on account of a company with which they had an interaction in the exercise of duties... [[PS protests.]] ... and a year later, by the same facts, he accepts his resignation, it is the leadership of the Government that is being struck, Prime Minister. It's the leadership of the government that's hit, Prime Minister! [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] When the culture of merit and transparency in appointments for public office is replaced by friendship, by consultants and offices that intervene in the same processes on the opposite sides, it is the sense of state that is collapsing, Mr. Prime Minister. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] When a Prime Minister, in Parliament, accuses his predecessor of letting EUR 10 billion run offshore, when he allowed the tax to charge houses for debt payments, when, everything seen and inspected, he concludes that this insinuation is unfounded... [[PS protests.]] ...and the Prime Minister does not have the humility and hombrety of publicly apologizing for the error,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u21	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u22	...is the political and democratic decency that is collapsing. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] When the parties that support this government scandalously block the discovery of the truth about the situation in the General Deposit Box... [[PS protests.]] Listen! Listen and reflect! [[PS protests.]] As I was saying, when the parties that support this government scandalously block the discovery of the truth about the situation in the General Deposit Box, even after there are court decisions in favour of Parliament to access the relevant information,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u23	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u24	... even after knowing officially that the Public Prosecutor's Office has already detected anomalies in the granting of credit in the General Deposit Box, even knowing all this, PS, Left Block and PCP are not ashamed of leaving this investigation and this scrutiny to be done and join in to the most serious political whitening I have in mind in our country. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] [[Mr. P. João Galamba's laughs.]] And I take the floor, Dr. António Costa, Mrs. Deputy Catarina Martins, Mr. Jerónimo de Sousa : if you three deal with the early closure of the Commission of Inquiry to the General Deposit Box not only renders a bad service to the Republic... [[PCP protests.]] ... as they are responsible for an unworthy civic and political behavior of the sovereign representation of the Portuguese people. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] Finally, speaking of the three, when Parliament approves Budgets and guidelines for financial policy and then the government does not execute them and even changes them without the courage and transparency of taking, when it cuts the public investment that it has so often defended, when it makes blind cuts and captivating that it is unable to explain or detail and when all this takes place with the enthusiastic applause of VV. Ex., Mr. Members sitting on these three benches,... [[PS protests.]] ... when all that happens, when you applaud a government...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u25	Of course we applaud! And we applauded twice, three times, four times, five times...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u26	... that does the opposite of what you approve, in fact, is also the democracy that is collapsing, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] And it is also your speeches, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Prime Minister, we well know that in the midst of the degradation of this government, it is true that the economy is growing... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u27	...and it's true that unemployment has dropped. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u28	But this government is very little responsible for that. [[Ah!]] [[PS laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u29	It's too little to blame! There is no structural or structural reform — and it is a challenge for you to demonstrate it in the debate — that it has contributed to this growth, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Not even the so-called return of income was a reason for the growth of the economy. Our economic performance, Prime Minister, is essentially explained by three factors. The first is the financial and reformist heritage that this government has received,... [[All right!]] [[PS laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u30	...the second is the external environment, which is exceptionally favourable, and the third and most important factor is that outside the government, beyond your majority, there is a community of people, institutions, businesses, workers, entrepreneurs loaded with resilience, innovation and competence. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] You have no doubt, sir. Members, that it is not opportunism, populism, electoralism or even the cynicism of this management that respond to these results.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u32	What is worth Portugal is its people.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u33	Oh, yeah? Oh, my God! Isn't that populism? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u34	This government, Prime Minister, is a flop. Let me finish, telling them: with this people, with the strength of our society,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u35	Say that without laughing, because no one takes you seriously!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u36	It was this people who ended up with the PSD government!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u37	... with the 2016 and 2017 situation, with the government that the Portuguese chose in the polls,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u38	Don't laugh! It's just that, with a face like that, with that freaky air, nobody takes you seriously!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u39	... I have no doubt to tell you, and to tell you, in particular, Mr. João Galamba, that with the environment and the capacity of the country, if we had a reformist government, Portugal was, in fact, a richer, richer and fairer country. And that is not true of you. [[PSD applause, stand up, and CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u40	Mrs. Members, it was right between the Bureau, the Government and the leaders of the parliamentary groups to whom I could speak that in this first intervention they could exceed the time of the regiment, as long as they were discounted in the times available. This is what happened to this first intervention by Mr Luís Montenegro, by putting these questions to the Government. In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u41	Mr President, Mr Luís Montenegro, I believe that this is the last debate in which we will dialogue as Parliamentary leader and I therefore spare him to recall the strength of his leadership that is ending. So I concentrate on your questions and what I see is that, on the state of the Nation, your vision is summed up in the last 15 days. And it is summed up in the last 15 days to, in the distress of wanting to attack the government, attack the General Deposit Box, attack the national examinations, attack the civil protection system and attack the Armed Forces themselves. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr, what we have seen here was not a description of the collapse of the state, it was the collapse of the sense of State of the PPD / PSD. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, Mr President, politics is not just for easy days. [[Ah! All right! Exactly!]] [[Ah! All right! Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u42	No, it's not just for easy days. Therefore, in difficult days, we must know how to resist the temptation of,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u43	Going on vacation? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u44	...that we do not want the guilt to die single, to find a marriage of convenience for the guilt that hasn't yet arranged the proper husband. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is what it is to do politics seriously, Mr President. I am also surprised that the leader of the parliamentary board who had the initiative to propose the establishment of an independent technical committee, instead of waiting for the results of the independent technical committee, has already had so many assurances that they will allow him to condemn everything and all, from the end of the GNR who was on the road to the Minister or the Prime Minister himself. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I know that you have exhausted your political activity in parliamentary discursive activity. I have, throughout my political life, taken on several executive responsibilities and have always looked forward to the responsibilities I take on. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u45	No, he didn't! No, he didn't! He didn't look like it, no! He's turned his face!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u46	If one day I want to discuss not only what I do today as Prime Minister but also what I did 12 years ago, as Minister of Internal Administration, here I am to discuss. And only for the aperitif of this discussion, and because the policies are measured, first of all, by the results, will I give three numbers for reflection by Mr. Deputies : between 2000 and 2005, the average area burned in Portugal was 215 262 ha ; between 2006 and 2011, this average was down to 70 000 ha ; from 2012 to 2016, this average remains less than half that it existed before I took office as Minister of Internal Administration. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP Deputies Protests.]] But allow me, Mr President, to quote myself and what I wrote in 2011 : « There are no illusions: as I have said several times, the protection of the forest goes through forest reform, structural prevention which returns to it resilience, which necessarily requires land restructuring. Prevention and combat can only help to save some time for the sector to reform and structural measures produce results. Time has run and fuel will accumulate. The experience of natural parks is very clear and tragic: prevention is not decreed, it is done». [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] What I have said, for more than a year, is that, just as I have done the civil protection reform ten years ago, this government will, to whom it hurts, the forest reform, and I hope to count on its vote for this reform to be approved in this House of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Now, honourable Member, do we understand: inheritance? Oh, my God! The legacy in 2015 was that the economy was slowing down and this government needed to change policy so that in 2016 the economy would accelerate again and in 2017 had had the greatest growth ever. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Conjuncture? Oh, my God! So, for the first time in many years, we have been growing more than the European average and we are riding on the ride of whom we grow less than we do? Oh, my God! Aren't we growing up more than those we compared to? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, it was with great pleasure that, during this year and a half, I had you here as an interlocutor. I don't know if next year I'll have you back as an interlocutor in another quality,... [[PSD protests.]] ... but I wish you, in any case, the greatest happiness and strength in your present or future leadership. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u47	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr. João Paulo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u48	Mr. President, Prime Minister, we have recently heard the PSD parliamentary leader accusing the left bank of political whitening in the case of the General Deposit Box. It is appropriate to confront the parliamentary leader of the PSD with memory. Political whitening is what your government has done in the case of BANIF. They were instigated by the European Commission to intervene in BANIF and did not do so for reasons of electoral agenda. And this bill was paid by the taxpayers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Political whitening was what you did in the case of the General Deposit Box, which capitalized by the minimums in 2012. They knew that the Box needed capital again and they let the situation go because you wanted to privatize the General Deposit Box, there was no change of government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Political whitening, Mr. Member, is what your government has done in the case of offshores,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u49	It's true! It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u50	... because there was a member of his government who decided not to publish the statistics on the transfer of EUR 10 billion to offshore during the period of his government. [[PSD protests.]] This is called political whitening. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, this was a good year for the country, but it was a bad year for the opposition. Not exactly because the opposition wished to harm the country, but because PSD and CDS had gone to say that everything would go wrong in the country. And none of this happened. The opposition has failed, the country is better, the reality has overthrown the discourse of the opposition. After all, the economic model is viable; after all, the economy is growing above the European average; after all, unemployment is falling by 9, 4 %, the lowest rate since December 2008 ; after all, long-term unemployment has been at the lowest level since 2010 ; after all, employment has increased by more than twice the euro area and the European Union, 264 net jobs have been created per day, 11 net jobs have been created per hour ; after all, the available income of families has grown; after all, the rate of poverty or social exclusion has decreased; after all, the budget deficit has been reduced to historical minimums ; after all, Portugal has emerged from the Excessive deficit procedure, the confidence rates of investors, consumers, businesses and families have gradually increased, the financial sector is consolidated. Mr. Prime Minister, concerns about social issues have disappeared from the discourse on the right, from the discourses of the PSD and the CDS. [[PSD protests.]] The last year was indeed a year of strong measures that strengthened social cohesion. Many of these measures have been taken, such as the extraordinary increase in pensions, such as the strengthening of cooperation agreements with the IPSS ( Special Institutions of Social Solidarity ), such as the reduction of health access rates, such as the updating of the solidarity complement for the elderly, which covers 130 000 elderly, as well as the automatic allocation of the social electricity tariff, which has now covered 815 000 families. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u51	Despite social issues, as I said recently, they have disappeared from the right agenda, for the PS Parliamentary Group to combat poverty, social exclusion and social inequalities are central political issues. The question I put to you, Prime Minister, is, taking into account the forecast of economic growth and the central wagering of the Government in social cohesion, which Portuguese can expect next year in 2018. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u52	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u53	Mr. President, Mr. João Paulo Correia, what the Portuguese can expect is continuity and firmness in the policies we have initiated for the year and a half. The turn of the page of austerity was absolutely essential. Without turning the austerity page we would continue with an asphyxiated economy, with untrusted economic agents,... [[Protests by PSD Member Berta Cabral.]] ... with the investment without arising and without being able to relaunch the growth of our economy. Trust is the key to economy. Therefore, income policy and predictability of reducing the tax burden were essential to restore confidence. All the surveys of the National Institute of Statistics to economic operators said that the first reason they did not invest was because they did not have a positive outlook on the evolution of our economy. Today the confidence of consumers and the economic climate is at the top of history, and that is why investment is growing, employment to come and the economy to grow. We must therefore continue to pursue this policy in order to continue to have good results. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And income policy is not an abstraction. Income policy means that with the elimination of the overtax of the IRS ( income tax for natural persons ), for the year all Portuguese will save EUR 800 million of taxes that currently pay to the State. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] It means that public officials today recovered 700 million euros, which the right had taken from them. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It means that pensioners have recovered the pensions they have lost, they have seen a 3 % update, and those who have the lowest pensions in the next month will even have an extraordinary increase, which was voted by the Assembly of the Republic, on a proposal from the CFP, in the last debate of the State budget. It means that today 730 000 workers have benefited from 10 % in two successive increases in the national minimum wage. This means that, indeed, there is a new income policy, but, more importantly than this, it means that the development model that the right had for the country and with which I wanted to convince us that, in order to be competitive and increase exports, it was necessary to cut wages and destroy rights was not true. We increased wages and stopped the destruction of rights. Today there are more 273 collective conventions than there were, there are nearly a million more workers covered by collective bargaining than there was a year and a half ago, and the truth is that our competitiveness is increasing and exports have risen, in homologous terms, as many years have not risen. What does this prove? It shows that the key to our competitiveness is not low wages and the destruction of rights. The basis for our competitiveness is innovation and qualification. That's why we released the Community funds that the previous government had in the drawer...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u54	Have you released? That's not what I hear!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u55	... and today we are financing the investment of companies, which is why we launched the Qualifica programme, so that there will be new education and new opportunities throughout life. That is also why we are thinking in Portugal after-2020 with this vision: innovation, quality, employment as fundamental vectors of our development. This is what the Portuguese can expect and, more importantly, this is what the Portuguese want, because no Portuguese wants to return to poor Portugal and without rights that the right would present to them for their future. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u56	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u57	Mr President, Prime Minister, the state of the nation is still the state of shock, since the tragedy of Pedrogão Grande, and the government must of course support the people, respond to mistakes and rebuild what has been destroyed. As a Parliament, we must move forward to courageous solutions and find new and more demanding responses to the planning of the territory, to defend the people and defend the forest, and the Bloc is committed to the realization of these tasks, because the realization of them also depends on the country's confidence in public policies. But this debate on the state of the nation evaluates all the way made in the country since the previous debate. One year ago, the right announced for the last time the imminent misfortune brought by political change,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u58	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u59	... that the replacement of income and the increase in the national minimum wage were weakening the economy and preventing job creation. After one year, with an unforgettable economic growth and more than 150 000 jobs created, the right started to kiss feet to dissipate everything he had said and call on him the good economic results. And so it comes to the debate of the state of the nation with little to tell the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u60	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u62	We have, of course, serious fragility in the state, which the last few weeks have shown. Tanks is a serious incident, it must not be devalued and advises simplistic readings, but it had at least an immediate political consequence: the right, which called the state 'fat', is outraged now with the lack of State means, even insurmounts itself against such a low deficit, which, in fact, always wanted but never achieved. It's a case to say that the right cut so much that it ran out of nothing. The right is without ideas and the idea of a minimum state has not escaped him. [[Congratulations from BE and PS MP Maria Augusta Santos.]] Finally, we have the cases, but the right, which has always lived in the rotating door between public interest and private business, has nothing to add to the fair citizen expectation of a new requirement, and that is a requirement that the Block does not give up. Mr Prime Minister, we want to debate the state and we want to debate the deficit. It is not the deficit promised to Brussels, but the hidden deficit, which is the structural delay of the country, a country that continues to fail to respond to many of the problems of always: 2, 6 million people in poverty; children without access to day care or kindergarten; whole villages without access to public services; abandoned territories. This is the first deficit we have to fight. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u63	The agreement we signed, one year and eight months ago, was an important step to start fighting this hidden deficit: stop impoverishment. It has produced results, but difficulties are not overcome, and it is therefore crucial to continue the way forward. We know that 2018 will not be an easy year, the European Central Bank has already warned of the additional difficulties that European rules prepare us. We'll have to make choices and know exactly what commitments they count. I therefore leave you a question and ask you three assurances. The question is simple: when did the child start working and has already been reformed for 60 years without penalties? Minister Vieira da Silva promised a solution even last year. in a 15-year debate in this House, Mr. Prime Minister assured me that it was this month of July that the solution would exist for those who started working at the age of 14. When is the promise fulfilled? [[Congratulations from BE.]] When does the sustainability factor end, which doublely penalizes those who have worked a lifetime and is already the victim of injustice? [[Congratulations from BE.]] This question adds the three guarantees, which are no more than guarantees of compliance than has been agreed upon. First of all, the guarantee that in January 2018 the national minimum wage will be € 580, as shown in the Government programme. in a country where there are those who are impoverished to work and where more than half a million workers earn the minimum wage, the increase is an imperative : 580 € in January 2018, 600 € in January 2019.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u64	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u65	Secondly, the guarantee of the reversal of the work changes imposed in troika times and which have lowered the salary, hampered employment, disrupted schedules, facilitated layoffs. It is not for the impoverishment of the country without rebuilding the rights and incomes of work. Thirdly, Mr. Prime Minister, because the State Budget for 2018 is at the door, ensuring the increase in the progressiveness of the IRS. from the huge increase in taxes on the right we ended only with the smallest part, that of the overtax. We now have to move on the stairs, because the right has not only increased taxes, made the worst of the increases, decreased progressiveity and, therefore, also made fiscal injustice. To begin to restore the progressiveity of taxes with more steps of IRS in the next State budget not only recovers income from wages and pensions as rests justice. Mr. Prime Minister, I am aware that these assurances that I ask you are not simple but essential. It is that the choices we make by the country must be stronger than the praise received in the corridors of Brussels. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u66	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u67	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, it is very important that in political life we do not hide the problems that exist or take refuge in the problems that exist. That is why, in the speech I made about the debate of the State of the Nation, I wanted to start where it was necessary before the state of shock in which the country is, that is, starting with Pedrogão. Now, we can't hide in Pedrogon not to talk about the country, nor can we talk about the country not to talk about Pedrogan. But talking about Pedrogan is not just rebuilding, it is not just responding to the needs of the populations. To speak of Pedrogão, we must tackle the structural problem which is the threat to the Portuguese forest as a whole. On that, we all have to make choices. That is why, on 27 October, we put into public discussion a reform of the forest and on 21 March we approved a set of diplomas, some of the exclusive competence of the Government, which are published in the form of law decree and are in force, others that depend on the bill and are here in the Assembly of the Republic. This is absolutely crucial, because we cannot continue to say that the forest is leaving behind and not doing anything to mobilize the lands that are abandoned. We cannot continue to say that, with the micro and mini-fund of the forest, there is not enough money for its own cleaning and not create conditions for its economic recovery. We can't keep saying that we don't know who the owners are and don't make the register once and for all, because we're afraid there's a new Patuleia. We cannot say that it is necessary to stop the monoculture of the eucalyptus and not take measures that prevent the expansion of the eucalyptus areas. These are the fundamental decisions we have to make and, if we want to be truly consistent, if we want to be consistent with our commitment to the memory of those who have died, the pain of those who suffer and the courage of those who have fought the fire, we have a duty to approve the forest reform and to do it as quickly as possible, because the sooner we begin, the later it produces results. [[P.S.'s applause.]] As I said in July, we will approve the diploma that will ensure justice to those who started working early and have long careers contributions. As for the national minimum wage, the final target for 2019 is known and the target for 2018 will also mean, as has happened so far, an increase from 1 January. With regard to the IRS, yes, we will continue to work to increase the progressiveity of this tax, from the outset with regard to progressiveity by changing the steps. With regard to labour law, we have invested, as we are committed, in unlocking collective bargaining. Today, there are nearly 1 million Portuguese people who are covered by collective bargaining and who are not. We are committed to combating precariousness and both in the state and in the private sector we will give priority to this fight. We have committed ourselves and given priority to combating youth unemployment and we will give effect to this fight. These are the commitments we have in the Government Programme and those commitments that we will naturally meet and honour. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u68	To request clarification on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP, Mrs Assunção Cristos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u69	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, at the time we debate the state of the nation, let us see how we are. this year, the record was struck in the collection of taxes by each Portuguese. It was also the year of the greatest lack of transparency in managing the state's expenditure of which there is memory: EUR 1000 million finally captured, i.e. blind cuts that passed from the threat to true existence. This was the year of the austerity of the united left who reached schools — who closed because they had no employees — hospitals — where surgeries and consultations were postponed —, health — where the debts increased and where the protests of the professionals came up in a tone every day. It was the year of the de-investment installed a little everywhere, from transport to the worsening of vocational training courses — to such an area of training that the Government likes so much, but in which, from north to south of the country, industrial complaints to centres are enormous.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u70	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u71	Even more than the unpublished volume of seizures, its biggest problem is not the fact that they exist — indeed, Mr Prime Minister so far has taken up 30 % of captivating as a working method of his Government — the problem is that, in particular, the Government, in the various ministries, in the various ministries, in the various State secretaries, simply does not assume such cuts transparently.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u72	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u73	And why? Because this is incompatible, because the official government discourse, then, does not stick to reality, does not stick to action. So, Prime Minister, it would be good if, at this moment of balance, he told us, for once, where and how it is cutting. Question : Is this the end of austerity, its austerity? You can't see where! To all of this we could join the squabbling in education — from leaking information in the Portuguese exam to the error of correction in mathematics — or the problems in justice, with the threat of strikes on the part of the judges. We had, and we have so much to explore that it would not be necessary to stress that one year back, when we look at the Portuguese public debt, little or nothing has happened and, when we look at the risk analysis that is assigned to us today, we are no better than in 2015, two years back. in fact, Mr. Prime Minister, today all this has been passing by and so because, in recent weeks, the country has been confronted with the most basic failure of the state, which justifies its own existence: the exercise of the functions of sovereignty, where the security and protection of citizens lie. This is because the unimaginable has happened to the tragedy of fires, to the human losses that have all joined in pain and that has exposed a grave failure of the State to protect its citizens. Trust broke and it was urgent to repair it immediately. And what did we see? A total discoordination: an inadequate government to deal with a crisis; an absolutely incapable minister to assert command, authority, to generate confidence and security; a Prime Minister to disallow his Minister, the same in whom he says to maintain political confidence, a Prime Minister concerned with studies of popularity.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u74	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u75	Is this the question — the exercise of the State's basic authority in its role of protecting people? You can't see how! Two weeks later, the country was again perplexed by another episode that once again reached the heart of the sovereign state: the theft of weapons in Tanks. We have seen the inaction and lightness of the Minister of National Defence and have witnessed the political absence of Mr. Prime Minister. And we understand your tactics. We saw it in the last State budget, and we saw it again last week: when the conversation does not matter, you simply disappear from circulation. He doesn't use the word, he doesn't look! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] He believes that it is enough to dive and hope that the bad wave will pass, so that, after that, he will again be able to surf any good wave for which little or nothing has contributed. Today, you heard here praising the economy, exports, investment. How much of this is public investment and how much is private investment? How many exports are from the state? They're companies, Prime Minister, they're companies! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] [[Protests of government members.]] But every time it refuses to debate, every time it devalues an episode, every time it steals to shoulder political responsibilities, it is the credibility of the State that is in question, it is the credibility of the State that sinks. The country was under attack: five commanders were completely exonerated; the Chief of the Army considered himself humiliated; the President of the Republic concerned himself, went to Tankos, taking the Minister of Defense tow, got into the situation, asked for all to be clarified and met with the military leaders. Mr. Prime Minister came back and declared that after all, everything was junk, that after all there was no bigger problem,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u76	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u77	...that, in fact, I already knew that when he was gone. for its logic, from now on, until we're thanking you for taking the stolen material, because so we always save the cost of dismantling. [[Rice and applause from the CDS-PP and PSD Members.]] Of two, one: either he knew and was even lighter than we could imagine, because he let the biggest doubts settle without any full clarification, or he did not know and is now mounting a narrative to cover up a serious failure. Tell us today, face to face, if you have the courage to do so: does it assure us that weapons cannot stop networks of transnational organized crime, which threaten the lives of our societies? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u78	Do you guarantee that there is no potential for death and destruction in Portugal or outside Portugal with these weapons? That is what I am asking again — worthy of a Member State of the European Union and NATO? You can't see anything! With this devaluation of the theft of Tanks, now converted into scrap theft, you wanted to close the case,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u79	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u80	... because you live convinced of your power to put end points. But if you are convinced that you do not have that power, you have no power to do so or we would not now have three State Secretaries dismissed, one year after you have given the case as closed.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u81	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u82	In fact, this seems to be another case of your assembly of narratives. Or do you want to make us believe that everyone in your government has such an intuition that, although without notification, they can request a resignation and you accept three days after the order of the Public Prosecutor makes them the defendants? For every final point that Mr Prime Minister tries to put, we have reservations, question points, much exclamation and a lot of indignation. [[CDS-PP applause.]] When the country most needed confidence in the institutions, you gave no answers, asked questions and said you were curious about the answers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u83	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u84	When the country most needed authority, you left the scene and let the military institution be diminished and the image of Portugal affected. Mr Prime Minister, you do not have a government, you have a succession of cases of ministers which you disregard and exceed one day, but which is safe on the other; you have State Secretaries who resign in a timely manner, with a year's delay; you have an administration with degradation of public services—from education to health, transport—and the government of hidden austerity.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u85	If I signed decrees on holiday it was the end of the bite!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u86	Mr Prime Minister, you have the opportunity to thoroughly reshape your government and you have already announced a reshape for tomorrow. What I am telling you is that you also have the opportunity to reshape deeply, reacting to the confidence that the Portuguese have lost in a state that exists, first and foremost, to protect them, to give them confidence and security.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u88	Tell us today, Prime Minister, finally face to face: will you or will you not resign your Minister of Internal Administration? [[PS protests.]] Will you or will you not resign your Minister of National Defence? [[PS protests.]] Be aware, Mr. Prime Minister, that I am waiting for answers to face to face, because, if you do nothing, if you keep everything as it is, then, everything, but all that happens from here forward in these areas is -he is harassed directly to you. He won't have a lightning bolt, everything will be pressed directly. The responsibility will be yours and yours alone! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u89	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u90	Mr President, Mrs Cristas, we will begin with the simplest: obviously I do not resign any ministers, obviously I do not resign the Minister of Internal Administration, obviously I do not resign the Minister of National Defence. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u91	Then he's responsible for everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u92	Let me tell you, even, something even easier: everything that any of my ministers or ministers do will always be my responsibility. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u93	He didn't see himself! He didn't see himself! It's questionable!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u94	I had the hope that the honourable Member, in order to credible her speech in the debate, would bring here again the seven posters she brought to illustrate her speech a year ago. I don't know if you remember, but there were seven very elucidative posters about how jobs were going down, how investment was down, how foreign investment had disappeared, how exports were falling, how consumer confidence had faded, and how taxes increased were brutal. Do you remember any of these posters? You don't remember. You know why? Because the reality of day by day has denied each of the posters that you presented here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u95	I don't rate it from year to year!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u96	Madam Member, if I were to evaluate it only for the posters, the conversation would be closed, because whoever failed so much a year ago would not have credibility today to say whatever it was. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But I don't evaluate with that lightness. So first of all, I wanted to tell you that when we talk about captivity we are not talking about lack of transparency. Captives are provided for in the State Budget Act, they are provided for in the Decree-Law of Implementation of the Budget. She speaks of the captives which do not exceed 1 % of the expenditure and, if we take into account that the actual captives carried out by two thirds relate, above all, to their own revenue and not to general revenue, the actual value of what was captivated was 0, 09 % of the total expenditure. That's what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u97	One billion euros!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u98	Mrs Deputy, contrary to what she thinks and says, the Military Programming Act was not the subject of captivating, public investment was not the subject of captivating, schools are not the subject of captivating, the National Health Service is not the subject of captivating. Therefore, each of the examples you gave is so good, so good, so good, because none of them is subject to captivating.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u99	There he is in denial!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u100	Your examples are really great! [[P.S.'s applause.]] But what is absolutely extraordinary — besides seeing the honourable Member now as the champion of public investment,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u101	You must be responsible! Be consistent!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u102	...so a sort of radical Keynesianism that we have already missed in this House of the Republic — is that the Member of Parliament has integrated the Government that cut 17% of the expenditure on education and health and is now talking about a State budget where spending on health has increased by 3 % and that of investment in education has increased by 4 %. Is that what the honourable Member wants to compare? I would like to draw your attention to the following: in matters of sovereignty, the exercise of the Government of which you were a seconded member represented a breakdown of 46 % in defence expenditure, a reduction of 4 % in public security and order and a break of 31 % in civil protection expenditure. This is the goal of its governance; our balance sheet is that of investing these cuts in civil protection, internal security and defense. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u103	He's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u104	But, Madam Member, I would like to say to you, frankly, that the state and respect for the institutions must exist beyond the political debate. The Armed Forces are a serious issue, which cannot serve as a political strike.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u105	No, but that's what you did!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u106	The word of the Chief of the Staff of the Armed Forces is to me a sacred word and not a question. [[P.S.'s applause.]] More: it is very sad to see an opposition that has nothing to say about the action of the government or the results of the success of the government's action coming down to the level of questioning the Civil Protection agents and the elements of the Armed Forces. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]] Madam Member, no one knows what contribution any of us will make to our country, but there is one thing we know: our armed forces have ensured national independence and integrity for more than eight centuries. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u107	To request clarification on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u108	Mr President, Prime Minister, in the course of October 2015 until today, one of the most important elements was the defeat of the idea of inevitability, the idea that there was no alternative to the policy of cuts, rights, wages, pensions and public services, the worsening of exploitation and impoverishment. With the defeat of the PSD and the CDS and the measures that have been taken, it has been proven that it is with the replacement of rights, the increase of wages and incomes and the appreciation of the living conditions of the workers and the people that the country can find the path of progress and development. [[PCP applause.]] These are acquired elements that workers and the people recognize and value as a result of their struggle. However, there is the harsh reality resulting from decades and decades of right-wing policies, in particular the last four years of PSD/CDS government, with serious and profound consequences that still mark the national situation we live in. The tragic events of the fires of Great Pedrogon and the assault on Tanks dramatically confirm the consequences of this policy. It was this policy of right, of the minimal state, that failed those populations when it closed public services inside, when it liquidated agricultural holdings, when it left the rural world to abandon. It was the right-wing policy that failed when he used the pretext of state fats to fire public officials, shut down services, reduce resources in the areas of agriculture, forests, environment or defense. It was the right-wing policy that failed the people and the country when it placed the State in the hands of foreign interests—economics and others—, disregarding that matters such as forestry, civil protection, security, defence or telecommunications are vital to the population.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u109	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u110	We know that the consequences of decades of this policy do not go away overnight, but we also know that it will take the longer to overcome the longer the rupture with the options of this right-wing policy. This refusal to break with the right-wing policy, patented in many matters in the action of the Government and the PS, has resulted in the booming of unanswered problems, the frustration of legitimate expectations of workers in the restoration of their rights and in the advancement of their living conditions and, in another way, leaves the country fragile and exposed to external vulnerabilities that motivate our concern. Since these are the central elements in the assessment of the nation's state, the question is the question of what will be the direction for the country's future, whether or not the government is prepared to make the choice to break with the right-wing policy to face these difficulties and respond to the country's structural problems. Mr Prime Minister, we must refuse and face the constraints, which continue to weigh on national life and to prevent the development of the country, the debt and its service to the European Union and the euro. We, as a people, and not others, have to determine our life and our collective becoming. [[PCP applause.]] The restrictions and restrictions on workers' rights still persist. in the increase of wages, in career progression, precariousness, in valuing long-term contributions careers, in collective hiring, it is necessary to move away from the limitations and restrictions to labor rights. It is necessary to ensure that workers and pensioners from PT ( Portugal Telecom ), for example, do not lose their jobs, their rights or their links to the company. It is necessary to hire workers and invest in public services, such as the National Health Service, public school and other areas. It is necessary to create jobs and ensure economic growth beyond the environment, on a sustained basis, overcoming the main deficit in the country, which continues to be the deficit in production. Budget management is needed as a criterion to address the country's problems rather than meeting the European Union's taxes. The State budgets, which are approved in the Assembly of the Republic, must be implemented in order to solve the problems of the people and the country and not with the concern of serving the European Union on the limits of the deficit. The CFP values everything that has been achieved in the meantime, including from measures taken by proposal or with the contribution of the CFP, but we know that what is done is not enough and the issue is not just more or less accelerated. It is necessary to go further by breaking with the right-wing policy that, for decades, has dragged the country into the problems it faces, implementing the desire for change manifested by the Portuguese people and assuming, courageously, the alternative policy that ensures progress and national development. I turn, Prime Minister, the statement in question. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u111	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u112	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, has transformed the statement into question greatly facilitates the answer. in the first part of the statement, I cannot follow you, as you know, and in the second part I follow you easily. The first part of the statement focuses on Europe and there, as we know, we have a different view of the advantages and disadvantages, constraints and opportunities of our participation in the framework of the European Union. I believe that it is not today in this debate that will convince me or I will convince you, so I will save you some time, because I do not think that this is the way we will have an opportunity to understand ourselves. So let us move on to the next part, which is the part where we converge. In fact, we have to regain the country's ability to have a solid state in its different dimensions. in its dimension of sovereignty, as is evident. If there's something I've learned for a long time that, whenever we devalue the functions of sovereignty, we end up weakening the confidence of citizens in the state and, by weakening it, it's all the activity of the State, whether in the social sectors or in the economic sectors, which is weakened. We must therefore continue to strengthen the capacity of State intervention as an essential instrument in combating inequalities. That is what we have sought to do, it is true, in a framework where there are constraints that we must respect, but where we have been consistent not only with what we commit ourselves to the Portuguese, but also with what we commit to the Portuguese Communist Party, in the Joint Position that we signed. That is why, despite the fact that there are captives in budgetary management, these captives do not cover some key areas. They do not cover the functioning of schools, nor do they cover the National Health Service. That is why, despite the difficulties, we have had a policy of strengthening contracts: we have the equivalent, at times, of more 3000 full-time teachers, plus 2681 doctors, plus 2370 nurses, plus 296 diagnostic technicians, plus 1080 other professionals in the health sector. That is why we are reducing moderate rates; that is why we created the program of free school textbooks in 1. the cycle; that is why we will reduce the classes of 1. the cycle in priority intervention educational territories; that is why we are going to create a new policy in the area of housing; that is why we are relaunching a programme of qualification and vocational training throughout life; that is why we are supporting productive activity, giving priority to the implementation of Community funds, with the technology transfer programme between universities and companies; that is why we have given priority to the dignity of work, with the acceleration of collective bargaining mechanisms, the agility of extension portals, the shift of management of many companies, as has been often discussed here, as is the case with Soflusa, Transtejo, Metro. That is the effort we have made and that is the effort we will continue to make. Even today, in my speech, I was able to set an example for two companies where, although the model is not what the CFP would like, the fact is that, being municipalities today, they are strengthening their investment, hiring more personnel, increasing careers and acquiring new passengers for public transport. Yeah, that's what we're doing, and that's what we're going to do. As for the fundamental difference we have, well, that, certainly, will continue to live with it, as we have lived so far, and it has not been that divergence which has prevented us from corresponding to the aspirations of our people every day, nor what we undertake to do together. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u113	To request clarification on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u114	Mr President, Prime Minister, a first step to tell you that I do not cease to be perplexed when I hear Mrs Cristian Assumption expressing great concerns about who assumes responsibility for what is in government. This is because, apparently and secondly, the public came by the voice of the honourable Member herself, when the resolution of the BES, signed by cross any decision taken by the previous government,... [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u115	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u116	... or, I remember, when he came to the Assembly of the Republic — he still held the environment — assured the Members that the wall of your dam was built, when, in fact, it was not built and this was the formula, the lie to ensure that the dam would be built, or when, for example, it was the one responsible for the approval of the law of the liberalisation of the eucalyptus. We, The Greens, will not forget who took this initiative and who advanced for the eucalyptus to flourish more in the country. [[Well remembered!]] [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u117	Mr. Prime Minister, when we speak today about the state of the nation, we see that people are faced with these tragic issues that have occurred in recent times and even ask questions about a problem that, in my view, the government has to take very seriously, which are security matters. What has happened in Tanks and the enormous tragedy that has happened in Pedrogão Grande actually require a real and urgent recovery of responsibility and, moreover, a guarantee that nothing of the kind can happen again. But the Greens did not wait for the tragedy of Pedragon Grande, as Mr. Prime Minister well knows. in the Joint Position of the Socialist Party and the Green Party on the political solution, we immediately determined the need for forest reform, the need to end the monoculture of the eucalyptus, the need to value native species in our forest, the need to make our forest more resistant to the drama of forest fires, which afflicts us year after year. And that is what we have to finish, not by the Greens, with an absolute rush, but with absolute effectiveness. That is the real reason for the work we have done on this subject, namely pressure from the government. Mr Prime Minister, I think it is good that we always have the past, especially the recent past, to understand where we are. Therefore, I will also not forget that the PSD/CDS government officials have repeatedly told the country that people would not delude themselves because wages would not be what they were in 2011. And this was very clear about the idea that the PSD/CDS government had about the cuts it was making — the cuts in wages, the cuts in pensions, the cuts in social support, the cuts in holidays, the increase in VAT in restoration, the increase in working hours, the increase in precariousness, all definitive measures! That was the line they had drawn for the country. This is only when it is effectively proved to the country that this was not an inevitability, that it was possible, doing all this on the contrary, to generate more employment, to reduce unemployment and to leverage the country in terms of its economic dynamics.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u118	Now, there are no schools, no health...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u119	That was possible! And we said it was possible! And those gentlemen of the PSD and CDS always with the talk of inevitability! ... It is possible, yes, an alternative policy to this logic of austerity, which had no other consequence than to massacre the Portuguese. So when we have repeatedly addressed ourselves to Mr. Prime Minister and we have said that it is essential to work for people, if we make an assessment of the state of the nation, that is exactly where we have to go. How are people at the moment? Better or worse? With better conditions in your life or with worse conditions in your life? Definitely, the answer, which, I think, is really unanimous, is this: with better conditions in your life. And that's the real assessment we have to make. Is that enough what you're doing? Of course not! The Greens would like the government to speed up the pace of some matters? Obviously so, because we believe that this would bring positive results more quickly. So, Prime Minister, there are some issues that we really need to accelerate, particularly in the next State budget, which are these: the change of IRS steps, the defrosting of careers in public service, more and better public investment to reinforce the response that public services give. But, Prime Minister, there are a few questions to which I will ask you to give even a few more concrete answers. On the subject of regional asymmetries and the fight against the depopulation and desertification of the country's interior, the Prime Minister must be more concrete.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u120	Oh, is it? Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u121	Give the example of two or three measures which the Government considers essential for this fight to take place. We say: for example, in the area of mobility and transport to leverage people to the interior, but also companies, it is necessary to channel more investment into the interior to give you another dynamic. Mr Prime Minister, what will you do about the undertaking of « family doctor for all Portuguese »? When can Portuguese count on this reality and on strengthening their right to health? But there is another question that we cannot escape: when, Prime Minister, 35 hours in the private sector? [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u122	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u123	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, synthetically, the problem is not just what the right party said when it was a government in relation to the minimum state, the fat state, wages and pensions. It is that, in good rigour, they are coherent and continue to think exactly the same. And when we hear the opposition leader say that there are captives because the government spends money on feeding its customers, what it means is that the government is fulfilling the Constitution, returning to public officials the salary they are entitled to receive,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...is fulfilling the Constitution, returning to pensioners the pensions they are entitled to receive. And that is what the right calls « customers », as if employees were a state clientele, as if pensioners were a state clientele. It is the old reminisce of when he called the pensioners « the grey plague », because this is truly the view that the right has on the pensioners in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] IRS change, defrosting careers in public service, public investment in strengthening public services is what is planned for the next State budget and that is what we will accomplish. But I am giving you examples of regional asymmetries. We have already modeled the price of tolls in the SCUTs in relation to the interior areas, we have already introduced a differentiation of IRC for small and medium-sized enterprises located inside, we have already introduced incentives for the location of family doctors in the interior, we have already begun to reopen public services that had been shut down inside. Yeah, that's what we're doing. And at the national level, presented by the Mission Unit for the Valuation of the Interior, we have more than 264 concrete measures to implement and that we will run throughout the legislature. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u124	To request clarification on behalf of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, during the past political year Portugal has emerged from the excessive deficit procedure and GDP has grown at the highest rate in the last 10 years. In addition, the Government and the parliamentary majority that supports it have had positive performance in the area of employment and business confidence, with a policy that mainly affects the replacement of income. Despite this favourable framework, the failure to reverse the upward trend of public debt should require of all of us a long-term commitment and a renewed focus on prioritising public spending and investment. The political debate is too often about the economy and social policies and always on the basis of the past. We will spend the afternoon today listening to the left saying that the country's problems are a consequence of the policies on the right and the right will answer that until October 2015 Portugal was a pleasant garden. Talking about the state of the nation is also speaking in the state of ecosystems. What is the value of increasing exports and tourism, reintroduction of income and economic growth if we are unable to realize that the environment has to be a priority? What is it worth discussing about the graphics and economic trajectory if we do not guard against the balance of ecosystems, our well-being and ultimately our own survival as a species? Consider the example of the forests. Mr. Prime Minister, do you know why our forests burn? The answer is simple: because the forest is not a priority. A proposed law of the Government, which is under discussion, aims to increase the production of eucalyptus, without increasing areas, is true, but occupying the most fertile land in the country. But this initiative has a serious failure because it omits an ecological and social project for the future of Portugal: it does not stimulate the restoration of our natural forest. And therefore, the NAP proposes an amendment so that, in eucalyptus plantation projects, at least one third of the area is dedicated to re-arborization with our native species. Mr Prime Minister, what is your position vis-à-vis this measure, which aims to guarantee the future of the forest in Portugal? We live in an illusion, Prime Minister. We live an illusion because, as a nation, we do not prioritize nature and subject environmental policies to the orders of markets and economic agents. When does a goal for Portugal stop marketing fossil fuel-driven vehicles, as have some countries in Europe already done? When will we stop producing electricity from coal burning? Mr. Prime Minister, the Paris Agreement cannot be met at the expense of the ISP ( oil and energy products tax ). Another question we want to raise, which is very important for the country to know, is whether there is already a date for the publication of the economic decarbonisation script. And, speaking in the energy market, we cannot stop talking about the enormous risks of nuclear, which are not bordered. Spain does not want to talk about it, it does not talk about it. We conclude that the Iberian summits are no longer a structural instrument for dialogue and resolution of problems common to the two countries, they are now mere events for newspaper covers. With regard to the fact that nature is still not a priority, we would like to warn about a matter of great importance, Prime Minister. This government has greatly increased the State's direct investment in the conservation of nature and biodiversity six times. A jump, no doubt. But, Prime Minister, this increase meant moving from an almost zero state investment to an investment that is far below the minimum requirements. What nation is this, Prime Minister, that invests hundreds of millions of euros of public money in intensive and toxic agriculture, in the production of transgenic maize, in the dirty industries of pig farming and milk, in aquaculture, in tauromachy or in the hunting industry and invests only 4, 5 million euros in the conservation of nature and biodiversity? And speaking of investment in the common good, we cannot forget the National Health Service. We know that this government has been committed to improving conditions and access to the National Health Service — that must be said — but we want and should do better. We must continue to humanize public health services through the inclusion of more nutritionists, more psychologists and more specialists. But at the time we discuss the problem of depopulation, we believe that it is necessary, as the nation, Prime Minister, to pay particular attention to the establishment of medical specialists and health technicians in hospitals in the interior of the country. Mr Prime Minister, in addition to the measures the Government has taken and the efforts it has been making in this area, what do we recognise, what other measures have it planned to ensure the establishment of medical specialists in the territories of the interior? Finally, Mr. Prime Minister, we reiterate what has been a constant: on the side of the NAP, you will always have a critical vision of governance. This vision will be critical, yes, but always constructive and cooperative so that together we can find solutions to the real problems and priorities of the nation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u126	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u127	Mr President, Mr André Silva, I apologize for being very synthetic, but there were many questions and I have to leave time for the Minister of Health to intervene. First, it is not true that the transplantation of eucalyptus areas allows agricultural land to be occupied. No agricultural land can be occupied with the replanting of eucalyptuses. This is not what is envisaged in the bill. Secondly, as regards the replanting of other species, we are open to discussion. We believe that species diversification is important to improve forest resilience itself and improve biodiversity. With regard to mobility, the competition that we have opened for all municipalities to purchase cars for their municipal services or for transport companies was precisely for decarbonized cars—and that is what, for example, either Caris or the STCP(Trade Transport Society of the Port) are doing. As for the low-carbon roadmap, we will certainly have-CL- it for the year. You have already closed the contest for the selection of the entity that will prepare the study. It is currently being evaluated and selected so that next year we can have the study for the low carbon script. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u128	We will move on to a new round of requests for clarification, to which Mr Prime Minister will answer at the end together. Mrs. Lara Martinho, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u129	Mr President, Prime Minister, the entry into office of this Government marked a very significant change in the relationship between the Republic and the Autonomous Regions, a constructive, cooperative and director relationship. in this context, I put a set of questions to you. The first is the commitment that the Government has made to build a new prison in the Azores. An analysis of the existing needs has already been carried out by the prison services. Mr Prime Minister, at one time I would like to ask which point of view is the situation of the Ponta Delgada prison establishment and when we look at the strengthening of PSP resources in the Autonomous Region of the Azores. I am putting a second issue on air transport. Air connections are crucial for the Azores, so the operationality of the aerodromes at any time of day is crucial. however, at the Aerodrome das Flores, after sunset, cannot operate civil flights, since, despite being equipped with lighting system, this is not certified. The current strategic plan of ANA ( Airports and Air Navigation ), approved by the State, refers to the acquisition of light signaling equipment, but nothing says about the certification of the runway for night flights, so I question when is the Government of the Republic planning the start of this certification of night lighting of the runway of the Flowers. Finally, Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask you about the situation of the public competitions for the repair of the NATO road wall in Ponta Delgada and for the installation of the meteorological radars in the Azores. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u130	It is the time of Mr. José Soeiro, of the Left Block, to request clarifications. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u131	Mr President, Prime Minister, in the last year there has been an important job recovery, as has already been said, with more than 150 000 jobs. But of the new jobs created, only 30 % correspond to permanent contracts — the data are from the Labour Compensation Fund and were discussed yesterday in Parliament — that is, of the 150 000 new jobs, more than 100 000 are precarious. This is because, despite the recovery of income and changes in economic policy, we still have the same labour laws as the PSD and the CDS that allow, even for permanent functions, young people and the unemployed to have long-term contracts, because the law refers them to an exceptional scheme of amputated rights. Changing this, combating precariousness in the private sector, combating abuse in term contracts and in temporary work, is an essential dimension for fulfilling the Government's own programme and it is a responsibility that cannot be postponed any longer. We have taken a very important step, it is true, with regard to the precariousness of the State: there has been a survey of the scale — in fact, intolerable — of the precariousness of the public administration and the business sector of the State and there is in Parliament the law governing the regularization of these precarious links. The Block has already submitted to the Government the amendments it advocates: tenders do not have to wait until February and the law must enter into force as soon as possible; current contracts must be extended from now on and until people are bound; and full time is not a criterion of labour and therefore makes no sense to put it as a condition to regulate illegitimate situations of precariousness. But, Prime Minister, the question I want to ask you is very concrete. There were 26 000 workers who, by breaking the insecurity and the fear imposed on them in recent years, required regularisation of their situation at the evaluation committees. This gesture of workers is of the greatest importance, but this number of 26,000 is far from the universe that we all consider to be that of the workers who have the right to a bond. Therefore, by the end of this month, it is the maximum leaders of public bodies, entities and services, who are responsible for completing this diagnosis, identifying each and every one of the State's deficiencies that must be linked. This identification is crucial for the process. That is why it is so important that a strong signal from the Government on the obligation of leaders to identify workers in the long term, pockets, trainees used for permanent needs, false service services, false outsourcing. If the Government gives that order, the leaders who do not identify each of these deficiencies shall be subject by law to penalties which may go from reprehensive to the removal of the Administration. The question is therefore clear: has the government already given any express and forceful guidance in writing to the heads of the services on this obligation and on the consequences that exist, if they leave any precariousness behind? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u132	Mr Nuno Magalhães, from the CDS-PP, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, beginning with where he began, when he said it was easy to answer the question of the President of the CDS regarding the Minister of Defence and the Minister of Internal Administration. Mr Prime Minister said that the answer, and I quote, 'of course, is easy because, obviously, I do not resign them'. The problem is precisely this: for you, it is easy because, obviously, Mr. Prime Minister is not a man for bad hours, he is only a man for good hours.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u134	Well, well! [[Protests by PS Member Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u135	Mr. Prime Minister is not a man to give bad news, he is only a man to give the good news. If there's a fire, the problem is Civil Protection, it's GNR, it's SIRESP, within the limit is Mr. Minister, but he says, « it's with me that it's nothing! Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u136	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u137	If there is a robbery in Tanks, the problem may even be from the Chief of the Army, it may even be from the Minister of National Defence, but it says, « my is certainly not! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Mr. Prime Minister, the problem is Portugal's security and the problem is that the Portuguese have already realized that, when things go wrong, the pilot goes out there and desert. That's what Mr. Prime Minister's problem is. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Then, Prime Minister, you say that there are no captivations, that there have been no cuts in the cost of civil protection? Oh, my God! Mr. Prime Minister, according to the chart I show, we can verify the following : 2014, PSD Government / CDS — EUR 230 million; 2015, PSD Government / CDS — EUR 250 million; 2016, PS Government — EUR 220 million. Mr. Prime Minister, it's just making the accounts,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u138	It's better to distribute the graph!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u139	You're covering the numbers with your finger!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u140	...it is not worth to come here to say that the captivity did not exist when they actually existed!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u141	They're in the General State Account!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u142	Mr. Prime Minister, we are talking about the greatest captivations, I repeat, of the greatest captivations of the last 50 years, only compared with the government of José Socrates! Do you remember, Prime Minister? Well, you may want to forget, but we'll keep reminding you, Prime Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u143	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u144	We have already realized that Mr. Prime Minister is a good manager of expectations, who even lives well, can live when the Block says the saying by not saying or when the PCP pretends to support him. But the country has already noticed that, when things are wrong, Mr. Prime Minister is not a man to stay, he is a man to flee; he is not a man to value, he is a man to omit, and that is his problem. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u145	Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, the way in which the PSD and the CDS have sought to do this debate, fleeing from the obvious finding of its failure in the ideology of impoverishment and exploitation, fleeing the obvious finding that that this thesis has been defeated, that there was no alternative to impoverishment, exploitation and the cut-off of rights and incomes, fleeing from the natural finding that it is through the return of rights and the increase of wages and incomes that the country's path can be the way of progress and development, confirms, indeed, that these two parties are taking on what they can take to escape their own responsibilities and evidence of the criticism that today's generality of workers and the Portuguese people do not only on the path that has been followed, but the insistence that the PSD and the CDS are still maintaining in the criticism of the return of rights and returns. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] And that is a relevant aspect, because it is true that today the PSD and the CDS have fled to take on the criticism they make. But the truth is that it must be remembered, Mr Prime Minister, that, as in the first year of this legislature, the PSD and the CDS have always been against when it was necessary to vote returns of income and rights to Portuguese. The PSD and the CDS were always against the return and improvement of the working and living conditions of the Portuguese, whether the measures were being taken with greater or lesser scope. This is a very important element in our assessment of the situation in Portugal today. And, of course, that, as has already been said, we do not ignore that the consequences of decades of right-wing politics in our country are still felt today in the grave situation that we face and that its effects will last in time, with serious consequences for the workers and the people. Mr. Prime Minister, I would like to stress the response to the PT situation, which we put to him in our first question, because PT workers, who are currently being targeted by intimidation, blackmail and pressure processes to lead to his dismissal, are ultimately victims of the right-wing privatization policy option of that company. It was a policy that placed a strategic sector company in the hands of the large economic groups, with devastating consequences for the country, but also for the workers of Portugal Telecom.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u147	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u148	And, Prime Minister, we greatly appreciate what has already been achieved with regard to the reimbursement of wages and pensions, increased family allowance, free school textbooks, measures for the hiring of doctors and other public service professionals, value-added long-term careers, as well as measures to reduce the tax burden on labour income. But there are many other questions to which we must answer, Mr Prime Minister, and which still demand a break with options that come from behind, particularly with business options that are bad for economic groups, but which are damaging to the Portuguese state and people. These are examples of privatizations — as I have already mentioned — but also PPPs, which are in view today, not only by the example of SIRESP, but also in many other examples that we could use in relation to the issues related to health, the transport sector, the ruinous business, both for the state and for the people — the PPP business, with bad profits for the economic groups that support these businesses. Therefore, Prime Minister, we would like to know what perspective you have there too, if it is a prospect of rupture with these options that in the past led to this situation. Finally, Mr Prime Minister, I would just like to sum up a question relating to the rights of workers, in particular the issues of precariousness. over time, we have encouraged the need to take forward the fight against precariousness, particularly in the Public Administration, with the need of the State — in particular the Government — to assume its responsibilities in the linkage of workers whose precarious situation was identified. We have followed the idea of the process can be triggered by the workers themselves, but we have never ceased to stress the need to be the government itself, from the list of precarious workers, to promote the measures for their recruitment and their linkage. Therefore, Mr Prime Minister, in particular with regard to this question of precariousness, I would like to know what perspectives the Government can point out, and will point out, that the integration of all workers in a precarious situation can be ensured, regardless of whether there has been this impulse, from a procedural point of view, by the worker, or whether it has to be taken over by the Government and by the public services. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u149	Mr Carlos Pereira, from the PS, has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, the Government of the Republic has successfully co-financing the Madeira hospital, and I greet you for that. The question I put is on the point of view of this dossier, given that it is up to the regional government to prepare the international tendering process and the choice of the best solution, in order to define the size of the financing. The last question relates to the State's support for the recovery of Madeira after last year's fires, those that allowed to minimize the impact of the tragedy that took place in that region. It has spent almost a year and my question is what the point of implementing these same aids is. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u151	To ask for clarifications in this round, you have the floor of Mrs Joana Mortágua of BE.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u152	Mr President, Prime Minister, the government has successfully started legislation in the area of education. He began with the courage to end the abuse that existed in association contracts and thus gave a sign that he trusted in public school and the public school received this signal and reacted with expectation. The teachers expected to hear the announcement of an extraordinary link, but in September, the school year will start again with thousands of teachers who will continue with "the house behind" to go to the school where they have obtained their contract. The extraordinary linkage was a step—and we recognize that—but that step is insufficient. If they were to bend today the vacancies of extraordinary bonding, they would not yet be sufficient for the permanent needs of the public school.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u153	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u154	And today, even today, there are a few hundred teachers with ‘the heart in their hands’ who were left out of the contests because of mistakes that were not theirs. What these teachers want today is also a word of tranquility from Mr. Prime Minister. But precariousness is that. Precautionary is always to walk with "the heart in the hands" and there are thousands of teachers and teachers with their life hanging. Mr. Prime Minister, announce that he will double the vacancies, announce that he will triple the vacancies, announce that he will bind as many teachers and teachers as necessary to end precariously in public school.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u155	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u156	Education is a permanent necessity of the country and, if it is to race, whether to regulate the deficit in Brussels, not to regulate the vacancies of teachers, who are so lacking in public school, because the bill to regulate these vacancies will be paid by students who are entitled to study in a school where they are not strangers to teachers who change every year of school. The linkage of teachers is also a condition for another commitment from the Government and that Mr Prime Minister has already mentioned here today, which is the reduction in the number of students per class. The Socialist Party approved in this Assembly of the Republic a project of the Left Block on the decrease in the number of students per class. I know — the Minister has also said — that this decrease has already begun in the TEIP schools (priority education territories) but one fifth of the students in a fifth of the schools is very little, Prime Minister. The increase in the number of students per class was a measure of austerity to cut in public school, as well as the time each teacher devotes to each student, which also corresponds to a measure of austerity for families, who pay in explanations the time that teachers do not have to devote to students in overlapping classes. It is about these government commitments that Mr. Prime Minister has to answer today. But you also have to answer, Mr Prime Minister, about another measure that costs no money and that means so much to the public school: to return participation and democracy to school management. It doesn't cost anything! Therefore, in commitments for the State budget, it also includes this, which is so lacking in public school. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u157	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u158	Mr President, Mrs Lara Martinho, by praising me in our comradeship, allow me then personally to answer your question on a matter of time savings. Mr Nuno Magalhães, of the only relevant thing he mentioned, I just wanted to say - synthetically - that in 2016 civil protection not only did not have captivations as it even had an execution of 4.5 million above the initial budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With regard to the questions put by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy adopted by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy adopted by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the laws of the Member States relating to the placing of dangerous substances on the market. Members of Secondly, and in relation to the competition of teachers, different complaints are being appreciated, so that all have their rights properly guarded. With regard to the two questions put by Mr João Oliveira of the CFP, I would like to say that the first phase, which will be followed by the second stage, will be fulfilled in which, after identifying those concerned, each service will have to assess and verify each specific situation. I share with you the concerns about the evolution of PT, because I fear that, in the irresponsible way that privatisation was done, we can come to have a new Cimpor case and a new dismemberment that brings into question not only jobs as the future of the company. In fact, I hope that the regulatory authority will look carefully at what happened to the different operators in these major Pedrogon fires, to understand as well as some that have always managed to maintain communications, while another had a lot of time without keeping any communications. That's very serious! Look, here for me, I've already made the choice of the company I'm using! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u159	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's get into the intervention phase. First of all, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u160	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister and other members of the Government, Mr and Mr Ladies and gentlemen: The reality shows us today, without surprise, a country with excessive imbalances and still large structural vulnerabilities and risks, both from an economic and social point of view, and this does not satisfy us nor should it be devalued, especially because we live in a country that has undergone such a traumatic process as that of the external rescue. But the reality also shows us that the country has made significant progress in fiscal consolidation efforts, growth and opening up the economy — especially on the side of exports of goods and services — and in the positive expectations of economic operators. The recognition of these good things does not diminish us as opposition—not least on the contrary—because it corresponds in particular to the desires for which we have fought so much and for which we have contributed significantly in our political action. Yes, it is true, contrary to what the majority of parliament and the government want to believe, the growth of the economy and employment, associated with the results of the reduction of the public deficit, did not start with management, started even before we completed the rescue programme, more than three years ago. And no, it is no miracle that, after having passed between 2010 and 2015, a deficit of almost 11 % to about 3 % of GDP ( Gross Domestic Product ), this government managed to move from a deficit of 3 % to a deficit of 2 % of GDP in 2016 to a deficit of...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u161	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u162	... having the consequent and promised exit of the excessive deficit procedure and moving towards a deficit of less than 2 % in the current year. This is only the result of the government's choice of continuing to ensure the budgetary consolidation objectives necessary for the fulfilment of the targets assumed with the European Union, which can only merit our public satisfaction and be credited to this Government as well. [[PSD applause.]] We can discuss — and we have discussed — whether the budgetary choices were the most prudent or appropriate to ensure the achievement of the objective, but we should emphasize that the worst cost for the country was not being met. Our opinion on this is clear and has been stated throughout the budgetary process. The government defined an approved budget in Parliament which contained choices that made it difficult to meet the deficit objective and, in the middle of the year, when it realized that the economic strategy did not have the results it expected and that, if it continued on that path, it would fail the relevant targets, it changed budget and put in place a plan b, which had never had the courage to take and which, repeatedly, denied: deep brake on the planned expenditure with use of captivations, as there was no memory, even when there was no money; deep brake on public investment, as it was not even seen in the time of the financial rescue; extraordinary measures on each other, as is the case of the exceptional times of emergency, despite the lack of normal time. With the very recent data released by the General State Account, this is no longer an opinion, but facts. After we have stated that the goals would not be achieved with those budgetary intentions, here the Account now shows, for the seemingly uncomfortable elements of management, that without such plan b we would have been comfortable above 3% of the deficit last year. It is impressive to see the government's efforts to conceal the options it took, in particular, the way in which it persistently resorted to the attack on the past to escape its own responsibilities. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] How can we explain, in view of the attacks on the embryo of the management against the government of then, whether nominally or in real terms and in comparison with the year 2015, a smaller budget in programmes such as higher education and science or in areas of sovereignty such as justice, defence and internal security? And how to justify, also by 2015, cuts in capital expenditure as relevant as less than 29 % in health, 32 % in work and solidarity, 66 % in basic education, 48 % in higher education, 28 % in justice or 24 % in internal security? in this state of the nation fell the mask of the end of austerity. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] The notion that, before management, there is only ideological obsession if it does not invest more or spend more on public, social or sovereign policies. It is buried that there was an alternative to the budgetary restriction and that it was sufficient for the left to shake its magic wand so that consolidation would occur without cuts and without difficulties, as if there was nothing to extract budgetary savings and as if the goodness of the claims and the goodwill of the decision-makers could result, naturally, from the solution of the problems to which there is no funding. What has been valid for the year 2016 is also valid for this year and for the following. Even with the help of nominal growth to overcome the government's initial expectations, the promised targets should only be achieved using current spending captivating variables, investment spending parsimony and the use of extraordinary measures that do not change the structural situation. They save us, therefore, for the swindling exercise of accounting these almost two years and, now that they prepare your third State budget, they are less fanciful, they conceal less and transparently assume the options inherent in the fulfilment of the medium-term objective for public accounts. [[PSD applause.]] And now it is also time to put aside this strategy of the external enemy, deresponsibility and guilt. The usual rhetoric, whenever something fails, is summed up that it is never your fault: or it is still mine, that I have left the government almost two years ago, or is from the whole world. But this childishization of politics does not coincide with today's enormous responsibility in the country's governance. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is also worth noting that these results that the country has achieved, especially in the acceleration of growth and employment in recent months, have appeared later than would have been possible if by the end of 2015 the emergence of this government solution had not raised so many uncertainties and doubts. Yes, sir. Members, the facts show that we are growing less in 2016 than in 2015 and this slowdown can only be associated with changing economic policy orientation and the uncertainty of the new government solution.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u163	Do you want to cut again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u164	The climate of reversals on structural reforms has delayed our recovery. Today we can see that the government has lost time and pace in growth, improved rating, early debt amortization, among other examples. It has incomprehensiblely wasted very favourable opportunities which other countries have taken better advantage of, such as the much lower interest provided by the European Central Bank policy and which would have allowed much more to reduce the cost of debt, or as the cheaper oil, which would have given better competitiveness, if it were not the increased tax bias. In fact, we are growing in 2017, which was expected to be achieved in 2016. And, in terms of rating, we must not forget that in 2014 Fitch put us in a positive perspective to get out of the garbage and it was necessary to wait almost two years to resume that perspective, after the management had announced. None of this would be of greater importance if our structural imbalances were not so relevant and if time were recoverable, which can not even make management believe.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u165	Respect yourself!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u166	But, above all, the country could be better today and for the future if the government, instead of taking the ride of the environment and reaping the fruits of the reforms carried out in the past, was taking action to undertake new reforms that boost future growth, keeping in the best years to cope with the worst years and mobilizing the country with an ambitious project. I know that management considers all this inconceivable. from the height of its self-sufficiency and feeling of superiority, the majority of parliament disdains or tries to ridicule everything that is not praise or that sees it defect. And as someone who is above criticism and is impermeable to different ideas, wonderful with the success of his preferred policy — the communication policy — he often decides not to respond to opponents on the parliamentary stage and defiantly challenges everything that are independent institutions that do not come to the hand kiss or that do not willingly accept the guidelines of « government protection»,... [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] ... however strange it may sound the reference to « tutelage» when we report to bodies which have an independent status. The Government and the majority also have the greatest reluctance to accept as natural democratic scrutiny, accountability and the basis of their decisions. But the truth is that it was enough for a series of unexpected events—some tragic, others simply worrying and awkward—, added to a number of adverse news so that suddenly the Government marvels and the stable, lasting and coherent majority would end up showing all its insufficiency and giving signs of enormous disorientation and disarticulation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u167	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u168	Yes, sir. Members, in the middle of the legislature, the country has found that the economy may even be going better but that political responsibility is failing in great style. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] The last few weeks have shown well that the majority and the government only work and exist for good things or for good news. Half of the government and the majority should also exist for the unexpected moments, for the bad news and to prepare for the fundamental changes, to think strategically in the country and in the future, or it does not exist or is simply disconcerting and demoralizing. Now, what exists only for good times is not the most necessary, because when everything goes well is when the government lacks the most. And if half of the government that is missing does not appear at the most problematic times, then there is lack of government and leadership where they are most precise. [[PSD applause.]] Now, in these weeks, it is clear that the government did not exist for what was most important. But that does not seem to bother either the government or its majority. What has played well with this government solution and this majority are some paradoxical results. On the one hand — I have seen him here — in the speech the alleged model of low wages is attacked, on the other hand, it is observed in the economy that in the most recent years so many workers have been sentenced to the lowest wages and with the average wage to be lower. It is a rhetoric to defend the improvement of the qualifications of Portuguese, but the practice shows a continuous attack on the requirement in education and the promotion of facilitation; it publicly proclaims love and defense of the National Health Service, but the factual observation shows the increasingly indebted health institutions, its professionals with worse working conditions and the lack of strong public offer to hinder access to health. They swear to fight precariousness and attack the past only because they have achieved the linkage of nearly 4000 teachers, but the work of half-legislatives allowed greater precariousness in the state and did not, at least until today, have to bind if not more than 100 teachers. [[PSD applause.]] The importance of increasing science, the role of research exchanges and scientific employment is emphasized, but the results show, after all, the loss of investment, the postponement of payments and new tenders and the reduction of awards.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u169	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u170	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me also, in order to illustrate the state of the Government and its majority, which enumerates a sequence of circumstances that have occurred over this time and which speaks for itself: the Prime Minister tells the country that he has accepted the request for the resignation of State Secretaries so that they may request to be constituted and then it is discovered that they have finally resigned because they had already realized that they would, in any case, be constituted. The Prime Minister informs Parliament that the withdrawal of three territories from the list of tax havens was made after consulting the technical services, but after all, the services were neither found nor found in the decision, which is not even based on the criteria laid down in the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u171	That's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u172	The Prime Minister, after walking for a year to promise to solve the problem of poorly stopped credit, publicly states that the Government and the Banco de Portugal are concluding negotiations with the European institutions to finally adopt a solution but a few months later, by the voice of an administrator of the Banco de Portugal, it is clear that there was no solution at all because European rules do not allow it. The Government informs that it has requested an independent technical opinion on a contract in the SIRESP partnership and then discovers that, after all, the opinion has been requested from those who had advised the initial contract. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u173	The Government says that it increases the budget of the services and that austerity has ended, but then prevents the services from spending the increase and, in some cases, until it is found that the expenditure was lower than it was before, in particular when the costs with wages are excluded. [[PSD applause.]] The Government marches on the stage of the Pedrogon tragedy and, after one month, it has not even been able to formally submit the request for financial aid to Brussels to assist people.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u174	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u175	With a parliamentary majority, it is proposed to close an inquiry to the General Deposit Box before the judicial decision that would authorize access to the fundamental documents to ascertain their facts. [[PSD applause.]] It is difficult, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to find in this sequence a standard, which extends to many other examples. I am sure that, in many countries, and especially those with whom we like to compare, this would be considered serious. Unfortunately, in our country, there are those who find in this way to proceed with traits of genius or of great political skill.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u176	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u177	Each person, of course, takes for himself the examples he understands, but these are not examples that we accept as good or that we can conform to. Especially after what happened to the Pedrogon tragedy, or even the assault and theft of military facilities, there are those who still try to test dedramatizing and manipulating approaches, shielded by communication strategies, without understanding that insisting on this modality is an offense to the intelligence of people. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u178	The « management», which has grown accustomed to favorable winds and good news, has not yet found a way to respond to the desires of the Portuguese after the storms of the last few weeks. When one sees the state fail cryingly, as we all have seen, self-sufficiency and arrogance are more displaced than ever and "throw sand for the eyes" only makes the situation worse. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u179	Standing in the dead waters that followed the storm, the'management' awaits for new favourable winds that make you forget what happened and that can return the previous spell. But now that the fragility, contradictions, simulations, calculus and latent populism have been exposed, it begins to feel that we collectively need more. The country, at least, needs leadership and mobilising and effective goals. Just waiting for better winds and luck is not enough. We need, as a country, much more! [[PSD applause, stand up, and CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u180	Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, wrote to ask for clarifications, Mr João Galamba. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho, the debate on the state of the nation is not only about the state of the nation, it is also about the speech of the opposition. [[Oh...!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u182	Mr. Depute, let me tell you that we all remember your speech from the state of the Nation in 2016 and the first conclusion of the debate on the state of the Nation in 2017 is that your 2016 speech failed and had no viability. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member is more concerned about making a self-justifiable speech on the revision of his past and is still curious that at the time he pronounced the word 'future', his speech ended. The honourable Member today has no idea for the Portuguese, no project, no objective. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Deputy, last year, declared here that the economic model of the government was inviable, that the economy was falling, that the rates of confidence in collapse, that unemployment was rising, that employment was falling and that foreign investors were on an accelerated flight from the country. I have not seen here, at any time of your speech, the recognition that you were wrong and that you have passed exactly the opposite of everything you have been announcing for a year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] After the total failure of your strategy and your speech, you have come here to try to present yourself as the advocate of public expenditure and the social state, and from now on we know — what is good for this Parliament because it means that we may perhaps have more positive and productive discussions — that the PSD criticizes this government for not sufficiently increasing public expenditure. So you have already put aside the question of wages, social benefits, CSR, CSI, pensions, this, I repeat, already set aside, of what one complains is of the rest. It is only that, Mr President, we remember very well what you went here to say about the rest. It was not that expenditure or education did not decrease enough, nor was it that teachers had not been hired in sufficient numbers, nor was it that there had not been sufficient hiring of doctors, nurses, diagnostic technicians in the SNS. That was not your speech, Mr President. His speech was that to increase wages, to satisfy customers—read, the overwhelming majority of Portuguese—we had all cut off in these services and it is now a year later that we have not increased enough? Need more? Mr President, do you remember your policy and your speech and what you promised Brussels? Where was the expenditure growing in health? Where was the spending growing in education? Where was the spending growing in civil protection? It was nowhere, it is now in your speech because you are disappointed to reverse your speech completely, to take advantage of two tragedies and come here trying to pull out political dividends of that, Mr President! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests, beating feet on the floor.]] That is what you do for opportunism to transform the state of the nation, which is the opposite of what you have been begging for for a year, and, on the basis of two incidents that have nothing to do with any policy of this government, you have tried to say that cuts have been made where they have not happened. [[PSD protests.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u183	Mr Galamba, I would like to ask you to suspend your speech a little bit, because I would like to appeal to the Members. Members who are in favour of creating conditions in the Chamber so that the speaker can be heard. I will not return the word to you, apologizing to you in advance, until these conditions are met. [[Oh...!]] [[Pause.]] You would like to continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u184	The honourable Member has come to criticise areas that he has always fought, and I give an example: wages do not grow enough, the average wage is low. Mr President, if your proposal for a non-increasing minimum wage could be assured that Portuguese income did not increase so much and the average wage would still fall further, for the simple reason that thousands of jobs created, with minimum wage or without minimum wage, have increased, in view of their governance. Do you want to change your speech? Do you want to defend a minimum wage raise? So defend her, but have the courage to do and do not point out only indicators that, if you were in the government, they would be much worse! [[P.S.'s applause.]] in health, last year, there was the greatest ever increase of resources. We didn't just increase the salaries of doctors and nurses, we increased the number of doctors and nurses. Mr. Deputy, if I were Prime Minister, what would you do? Would it increase but? Is that it? If it were, say it, but it's contrary to what you've always defended. in education, did money in private schools withdraw resources from public school? Was the public school better or worse? And without the teachers that the current government hired, the public school was better or worse? [[PSD protests.]] And what did you propose? Was this it? No, it was your opposite, pure opportunism. Mr President, all Portuguese, including you, remember what you have done, what you have defended and what you have proposed and remember, too, what you said was going to happen to the country when this government took office. The honourable Member has the opportunity to acknowledge that everything he said in 2016 did not come true. It also has the opportunity to say that it has become and that it now defends increases in public expenditure, but clearly say so, Mr President. Say you advocate even greater increases in spending on health, education and all areas, which have increased in relation to your government, because what the captives have done, Mr, was no cut! [[PSD laughter and protests.]] No, it wasn't a cut! The expenditure has increased and the captives have been regulated by the growth of the expenditure, Mr President, I repeat, the growth, not the cuts in expenditure that did not exist. If that is what you are now defending, say, there is no problem in changing your position. You have to do something here that you have not yet done, which is to recognise that you have actually changed your position, that you were wrong and that you are now defending a policy that you have never defended. If you do that, Mr President, you can be sure that we will take it seriously. Until that happens, I'm sorry, but it won't! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u185	To reply, Mr Pedro Passos Coelho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u186	Mr. President, Mr. João Galamba, I have had a very coherent intervention and his or her oratory diatrics only reveals that you or you do not remember or read my intervention in the debate on the state of the nation in 2016. If I had listened to my speech, if I had remembered, or if I had read it, I would realize that it is exactly in accordance with what I am saying today. Furthermore, Mr President : I also said that we were losing opportunities, losing time and, to that extent, creating difficulties in the implementation of the Budget itself, which did not anticipate how it could be carried out in accordance with the intentions of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u187	Just like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u188	Now that we have the numbers — and they are not opinions — we can actually see the numbers that have resulted from the government's budget implementation and that we can, therefore, impatiently look at them, I think those who are a little embarrassed are Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u189	Not me, sir! I'm even fun!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u190	The honourable Member approved the budget which promised to reconcile the budgetary objectives with the increase in expenditure.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u191	That's what happened!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u192	Mr President, that is not what happened, it was the opposite! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Notice : even the Portuguese Communist Party noticed this, even the Left Block noticed this and I believe that even the Green Party realized it. And you haven't seen the numbers yet? Oh, my God! Go see them, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u193	I've seen them!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u194	in science and higher education there is nominally less expenditure than in the previous year and, in the relevant areas of state, such as justice, internal security and defence, we found that the increase of 0, 3% disappeared with inflation. I mean, in real terms — imagine Mr. Member — but if we discount the salaries, because they have increased, then there is no doubt: we know that the money left there did not give for oil! Open... [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] The honourable Member is that he should be defending the government and explaining that after all the government had to give the pirouette that he has never admitted to giving, correcting his strategy, to meet the goals in Brussels. Mr President, even Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has asked to look less at Brussels and more at Portugal. I did not change my position, it was you and the Members of the Communist Party, the Left Block and the Greens. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u195	Do not imagine how good it is to hear them today contort themselves by attacking the past, when your practice is not in line with what they promised and, to that extent, represents a democratic fraud. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u196	For an intervention, Mrs Jamila Madeira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u197	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Despite some speeches we have heard here today, to the right the role of the State is minimalist, I would say, marginal. The pretext of state reform, the right sought to privatize everything and promoted initiatives aimed at dismantling the social state to the detriment of better defending citizens. The right in the Government has run out of human and financial resources critical sectors of the Public Administration and the social state, in a balance-priced logic, assuming, at the time of the Executive, that what is public does not work and only what is not public is that it is good — ideas that, according to what we hear today from Mr. Luís Montenegro, have not yet changed. Since the beginning of this mandate, which the PS Government has assumed is necessary to modernise and ‘simplify’ if I am allowed to express myself, reforming the State in all its aspects, which is absolutely urgent and priority in order to be able to defend citizens, businesses and institutions in the pursuit of public, national and in the name of social welfare. The reform of the state goes through greater efficiency in public service and by simplifying the lives of the citizens — we all gain with that, in fact, perhaps the opposition does not win..., and that is what we have done. You can see the automatic IRS, with about 730 000 contributors who saw the efficiency of their statement immediately, at the time, and obtained a gain of more than 50 % of the average time to receive their refund, passing from 30 to 12 days the average repayment time. The Nascer Ciudadão project, which allowed 36,000 children to see their dematerialized clinical data processes, as well as to ensure something particularly important, such as the immediate access of these new users to the SNS (National Health Service) and the family doctor. We also see the Recipe Without Paper system, which allowed greater simplicity but also greater control of the entire system or the SNS Portal, which allows the choice of the emergency service or the site of the specialty consultation, simplifying access and avoiding multiple and morbid displacements. See the freeness of school textbooks, a measure that will represent about 1, 5 million books for about 375 000 students. We also see the commitment that as a government the PS assumed to reopen 20 courts closed by the PSD / CDS in 2014, re-approaching the justice of citizens. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We also see the case of the Public Administration, in which while the PSD/CDS government hypothesized it on the pretext of austerity, the current government, the one who achieved the lowest deficit of our democracy, began the Program for the Extraordinary Regularization of the Precarious Links in the Public Administration, thus ensuring new blood, dignity and recognition to those who work in it. Ladies and gentlemen, a historic moment that we must point out. [[P.S.'s applause.]] All these measures speak for themselves, speak for the Portuguese, and now speak for the international institutions. In short, in this debate on the state of the nation we can and should say with certainty and with conviction that the country is better, the citizens are better, the state is stronger. We are thus certainly building a better future for Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u198	For an intervention, Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u199	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. and Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The policy that counts is the one that responds to the people and the agreement to defend the country from the destruction of the right is making the difference — increase of the national minimum wage, end of the overtax of the IRS, end of unconstitutional cuts, social tariff of effective energy, replacement of social support, increase of pensions. One year after the last debate, the response to people proved the answer to the economy: economic growth, job creation and a country that regains confidence. But we do not forget that there are 2, 6 million people in poverty and that inequalities threaten the country. There's a way, but it's almost all there is to do. That is our responsibility. It is not true that protecting people is to deprotect public accounts, nor is it true that budgetary consolidation is not relevant on the left. We have always said that only with economic growth is budgetary consolidation and it has been proven that way. That is why we need to question the deficit targets that the Government has proposed. These objectives of the Government were beyond those laid down in the European framework and could become an obstacle to its own long-term consolidation by maintaining too many restrictions to respond to the structural problems of the country. We have not now started the debate on what the State has not invested and could invest, we have said so many months ago: EUR 1600 million of difference between the deficit necessary to exit the excessive deficit procedure and the actual deficit. In order for Minister Mário Centeno to be praised by Wolfgang Schäuble, there were EUR 1600 million less investment where it was urgent to do so. It would have been possible to invest the EUR 800 million in new investments and replace obsolete material in the National Health Service, an investment that would strengthen population access to health and save millions in the future because it would reduce private procurement. It would have been possible to do urgent work in all degraded schools, because 300 million euros of investment would prevent another school year from starting, for so many, under poor conditions. It would have been possible to hire missing assistants. It was EUR 30 million that were missing in schools and they should not have been missing. It would have been possible to invest EUR 400 million in rail retraining, ensuring mobility, countering abandonment and promoting territorial cohesion. It would have been possible to double the forest slag teams, because 20 million euros would make all the difference to a safer country. Another investment would have been possible in areas where proclamations and budget deficits remain, from culture to science, and which are essential to development. Each of these forced and excused savings is a missed opportunity. There were 1600 million lost opportunities, there were no cuts — that is what the right has done and the country remembers the difference well — nor has there been a breakdown of confidence in the approved budgets. Everyone also remembers how each right-wing reformary budget came with a new cut in the incomes of those who had less. That time has passed. What we are talking about today, yes, is a new requirement. We cannot miss any of the opportunities to recover the country from the devastation of austerity. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today the insecurity that the right has brought to the country is removed. We worked on it. There is no longer fear of hearing the notice of the court in the pension or in the salary every time the news is connected. The security of constitutional respect was restored. Portugal has regained confidence and that is not a small thing. But the threats aren't very small, nor are they far away. A increasingly insecure and unstable world demands all caution. We need to recover essential instruments from economic democracy, strategic functions and public services that are constitutional guarantees. When we look at the instability of the financial system, we know that the delivery of BANIF to Santander was a mistake, as it is a mistake to deliver the New Bank to Lone Star. The state paid for the losses and ordered the alien to be handed over. We got more fragile. In a country with such a high public debt and with the ECB programme that has protected the rise of interest to end soon, this is not a problem that we can continue to ignore. in the same way, we have to look at all the strategic sectors of the economy. See the case of CTTs: a profitable public enterprise that was sold by PSD and CDS. The privatized TTCs have ceased to guarantee even the basic postal service, as concluded by the regulator itself, ANACOM ( National Communications Authority ), with failures and absences that alone would require the reversal of privatization. What is expected to recover CTTs? in energy, the system of excessive incomes, which the privatization of the sector installed, continues. It is a crime against consumers and against the economy. It is necessary to free the real economy from the weight of an abusive energy bill, to lower the energy costs of families, all of them! , and not just the most vulnerable, as we began to do with social tariffs. This is the time to move on that path. We're too late. Why does the government wait? How can we have a development, innovation and cohesion programme if strategic sector management does not follow any logic other than that of shareholder accumulation? in PT, one more of the companies destroyed in the voracity of privatisations, Altice prepares the dismissal of thousands of workers, by fine-tuning all the rules and boasting about it even in Parliament. While the government postpones the reversal of the labour jungle installed by the former Government and the troika, the abutres are already experiencing new abuses. Years of ideological prejudice against the rights of those who work have transformed legislation into a Swiss cheese full of holes for companies to escape their responsibilities. Easy work for shareholders is too high a cost for those who work and for the country's economy and employment. Our responsibility, the responsibility of the government, is to stop these processes. The Government, which has refused, and well, the collective dismissal of PT, cannot now "wash its hands" when PT is making the collective dismissal. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Protect workers from abusive dismissal; rebuild the collective contract, which still leaves out the vast majority of workers; recover the payment of extraordinary hours; end the abuse of the hour bank; take the process of regularization of State precariouss to the end and leave no one behind; have strength and determination in the fight against precariousness in the private sector. This time requires courage against powerful interests! [[Congratulations from BE.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are currently in a difficult debate on forests. It is urgent to complete the liberalisation of the eucalyptus, made law by the previous government and which makes our forest so much more dangerous. We need a new regime for the forest, but a new regime that clearly places the planning and security above the financial appetites; a new regime that is committed to the revitalization of the interior and the association of small owners and not to subsidies for the concentration of land in private funds outside the territory; a new regime that cuts the race to new areas of eucalyptus by the celluloses and which, at least, always sub-orders to forest plans and imposes on them a reduction of the total area of eucalyptus with its replacement by indigenous species. The Block has not now reached the debate of the forest; we are even the only party that has tabled its own proposals. The debate is now open, in the field of expertise here in Parliament, but nothing would be worse than, in the aftermath of the Pedrogão tragedy, approving amendments made to the extent of the celluloses and other financial interests in the forest. on the part of the Block, the Government knows that it has the opening, but also the requirement of always. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members: This parliamentary majority will soon be two years away, and the determining force of the left in Parliament. We know that the country is better, because people are better, but we do not resign to the persistent old political habits, we do not stop fighting for what is missing- and lack almost everything, nor do we pass blank checks. Decades of central block mined the economy and made us a country dependent on and on a route of delay and created a new wave of emigration, as has not been seen since the middle of the last century. Courage is needed to overcome structural problems, protect the country from external shocks and ensure security in the concrete conditions of the economy, work and life in Portugal. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have little interest in the excitement of the right in the face of each divergence in the parliamentary majority. We understand that the right has been without a program for lack of courage to demand now the cuts I always wanted to make. Without any novelty, this debate on the state of the nation has also confirmed that the political demand and alternative, the struggle for the bass, in Parliament as well as in the country, are, and as they have always been, on the left. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u200	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u201	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: when assessing the state of the nation, it is appropriate to define exactly what we are talking about. This nation, our people, is an ancient nation that, throughout its history, has survived almost everything, including the bankruptcy to which the Government of the Socialist Party voted us in 2011. [[PS protests.]] This nation, as always, is resilient and determined, although, of course, the Portuguese look anxious and astonished at the events of the last weeks and of the last days. The majority would certainly prefer that this debate focus exclusively on the satisfaction of the corporate sectors that support management, but, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in democracy and this is political. And what do those events tell us? The tragedy of Great Pedragon and the humiliation of Tanks may not reveal much about the state of the Nation, but they say all about the sad and lamentable state of government. [[CDS-PP applause.]] at the end of 20 months it is clear and it is evidence that the government has failed and is failing every day without appeal, nor aggravating. Let us be clear: the question that I bring you is not so much about the tragedy in itself or its causes, that the independent committee will not even find out about the horrendous failures of the civil protection system that the government, at the end of almost two years of mandate, has not repaired or improved; of what I am talking to you is a government, usually given so much to the questions of images, giving a show of total decoordination, of lack of authority and absolute inability of command, of the SIRESP to blame the civil protection and vice versa and of the GNR indignant with references to its men on the ground, isolated and without communications. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The spectacle of the independent bodies of the MAI (Ministry of Internal Administration) in an open war of pass-by with a visibly fragile minister, unable to put order in the house, deliver to himself, while Mr. Prime Minister was packing and leaving.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u202	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u203	Failures in this Ministry were not, moreover, a novelty since the airport security failures, the disappearance of 57 PSP pistols, and, to conclude, the Government calls for a technical and independent opinion to be found that, after all, the opinion was requested from those who had advised the contract since its inception. The same is true of Tanks and one of the biggest weapons thefts in European soil in this century, causing an incomparable damage to the external image of our country. Here too, more than the absurdity of the failure of security in what, by nature, should be the most guarded, a paddle of a military headquarters, the most serious was the succession of inabilities, which began to devalue, followed by consideration of terrorism and, finally, there was also here an unacceptable attempt to pass the blame on the part of the political leader.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u204	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u205	If governing is to predict, the consequences of this government behavior were obvious: resignations, announcements of sword deposition, which is very serious, contradictions and accusations, an exoneration and complete instability in what should be one of the nation's most protected traditional institutions, that is, its Armed Forces.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u206	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u207	All this, despite the laudable efforts of Mr President of the Republic. In conclusion, it was necessary for Mr. Prime Minister to come back on vacation to let us know first that the weapons are not with terrorists. Mystery...! How does the Prime Minister know that since, I presume, he will not know where they are and the Minister of Defence said exactly the opposite? [[CDS-PP applause.]] Secondly, we also learned that this weaponry of war does not have the danger that it was thought to be, because it would be for slaughter and even would be relatively cheap. In fact, it was only a mistake to thank us for getting rid of this useless scrap. [[CDS-PP applause.]] When we arrive here we are no longer talking about unprepared ministers for difficult situations; we are talking about a Prime Minister who has returned to devalue what is not devalueable — the theft of weapons of war of enormous lethal potential — we are talking about a Prime Minister who has disappeared in full crisis and has returned to once again pretend that nothing is happening. [[PS protests.]] From there the problem is with you, Prime Minister, and responsibility is yours.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u208	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u209	In fact, it was reported that the great concern during this crisis of the Government was its own popularity, from there the focus groups, from there polls on the official website of the Ministry of Internal Administration. If we add to this the resignations of State Secretaries who, politically, were uncompromising a year ago, and the CDS said - the conclusion is obvious: a government falling to the pieces, "without a king or a rock"! [[CDS-PP applause.]] A Prime Minister who favours loyalty and political companionship with the credibility of the government and the institutions. But, Prime Minister, loyalty does not replace capacity or companionship can override competence.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u210	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u211	In the middle of it all, who disappeared? The far-sighted and experienced politician disappeared, the quick and inflexible decision-maker disappeared in this crisis and what survived was a lack of leadership and this affects the Portuguese confidence in the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u212	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u213	We are not mistaken, the government comes to this debate with very little: it comes up with the argument that the positive trend in growth and unemployment, which had already come from the previous government and which was based on a model based on exports and private investment, things on which you have never believed, has not been reversed, despite your options. And more: a new state secretary. If the management of sovereignty was disastrous we are not left there, because they are serious, because they protect Portuguese, as is evident, but for a government that was coming to change everything and that, compared with a government that had to reduce the deficit from 11 % to 3 %, as did the previous government, now has another percentage point, and only one percentage point, to present. And at what cost? I tell you: at the expense of cuts in spending, captivating, and pocket captivating. with a direct and immediate impact on the social situation and on the lives of Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u214	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u215	From the outset, in health, where the EUR 80 million of captivating led to the lack of human resources, to a galloping debt in hospitals, to the postponement of surgeries, to the lack of anesthetists, to the breakdown of drug stocks, and sometimes to the lack of the most basic and essential material, this in the face of the discontent of professionals; in justice, where the discontent of professionals already goes into an absurd threat of judges' strike—it is a shame! ; in education, where the EUR 43 million of captivating resulted in the closure of schools due to lack of employees, delays in payments of social action and school textbooks to students' families and in children without pre-primary placement. All this is the portrait of a government that has failed. [[PS protests.]] You were the government that was coming to restore public investment and not only failed as they have the lowest public investment ever!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u216	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u217	All of this obviously happens with the silent convivence of the parties on the left who support the government. Almost EUR 1 billion in captives are twice as many as those of the previous government. And what do PCP and Block do? They approve in November, report in July. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u218	More: in a week, the second complaint is made to the electorate, at the fourth, they are more silent, and at the sixth, they vote on everything they have put before them to vote without arguing or wanting to know of taste or taste. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] Mr Prime Minister, you have been classified and I remember - I have used this expression here in a debate in the past - as "the great illusionist". Your problem, Prime Minister, is that the illusion is ending. The trick was discovered and everybody already figured out what it is. The nation demands the truth. The trick is called captivating — stubborn austerity — and only its PCP and Block partners continue to pretend wonderful with that trick. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] What this crisis has exposed, above all, was the inability of a Prime Minister's decision-making and leadership which, whether it is or not, will have to make decisions in the future, because we all realize that the fragility of this government is absolutely obvious. You will have to change course, or the course of events will take care of you. Portugal, the Nation, deserves much better. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP, standing up, and the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u219	in the course of interventions, Mr Minister for Health now has the floor. [[In order, follow the CFP, Mr President!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u220	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, that is not the indication that the Bureau has, but let us examine it. [[Pause.]] The CFP is absolutely right, it wasn't the order of the Bureau, but it's obvious. I therefore give precedence to Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, with my apologies to Mr Minister for Health. You have the floor, Mr. Jerónimo de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u221	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If there is evidence that the current state of the nation confirms in these 20 months of existence of the new phase of national political life resulting from the last legislative elections and the changes verified in the composition of the Assembly of the Republic, it is the one that shows us the stout disaster of the path followed by successive governments in recent years and that it had in the policy of the previous government, PSD / CDS, its worst version. It confirms, of course, the evolution of the economic and social situation and its indicators on growth and employment. An evolution that revealed the total failure of the right-wing policy of impoverishment of workers and cuts in the living conditions of the people. Its scope is still limited, it is not yet the answer that the country needs, nor the solution to the underlying problems that remain. But the policy of the replacement of rights, the return and increase of wages and income, as we defended and proposed, and how the PSD and CDS assumed, in addition to their positive social impact, it was confirmed as an essential factor of economic progress. That's the direction the country needs to deepen. This is the direction that Portugal needs to continue, despite the fact that the European Commission, the IMF ( International Monetary Fund ) and its proselytises from here and across borders proclaim as the source of all virtues a ruinous rescue programme and its false structural reforms, a standard solution for all situations and latitudes, to get out of the excessive deficit in the past and make the country grow and today pay the debt and « run after the carrot » from the rating of the Republic. It is the way of raising the living conditions of the people that it is necessary to continue, despite the systematic pressures and demands that continue there to implement the invariable revenue of these reforms — which you invent ingenuity to deceive the people! [[PCP applause.]] What they mean by'structural reform policy' is cuts in social security and in reforms, it is liquidation of labour rights, it is freezing and reducing wages in the name of competitiveness, it is high taxes for people and tax relief for large capital. We must refuse these recipes firmly! Between social progress and structural reforms they want is the difference between salsa and cicuta. It confirms the maintenance of the weaknesses and vulnerabilities of the country that are expressed in the food, demographic, energy, spatial planning, infrastructure and public services, exposed in the recent events of the tragic fires in the center of the country and in the arms theft in Tanks. These are a sample of Portuguese reality that is beyond the seemingly contradictory flow of the conjuncture. They well reveal the consequences that are prolonged in the time of this disastrous policy of the last decades, which has promoted a criminal privatization programme and the dismantling of the Public Administration, which has degraded all the social functions of the State, including economic and sovereignty functions, as they also reveal the true dimension of the problems to be faced. Consequences tend to worsen as there are continuing constraints that undermine the development of the country, such as those of submission to the euro, public debt and its service that consume about EUR 8 billion annually, the monopolistic domain of the bank and other strategic sectors, the high dividends emerging from the country and the flight from the large capital to the payment of taxes by the use of offshore and other tax havens. Yes, it is necessary to look beyond the context, beyond the trends in the economy, however important it is economic growth in this or that quarter, in this or that period, and this cannot be used to conceal the need for measures to ensure solid and consistent development. As in the past, there may have been periods of economic growth, but only with the release of the country from existing constraints can it be possible to ensure the development and improvement of living conditions to which the Portuguese people are entitled. This is another unquestionable truth that the evolution of the situation in the country puts. The solution to the serious problems of the country is not recreating or reinventing variants about the same failed model that led the country to the backwardness and the delay, does not ensure with programs that keep Portugal hostage to external taxes and to serve interests that are not ours. The pernicious policy of the deficit dictatorship with momentary budgetary artifacts is not overcome. Overcoming delays requires the release and overcoming of the strong constraints imposed on the country. We really need to change. We need to change politics! Change and not just incorporate variants, maintaining the essential of past solutions. It is necessary to change and not insist on the vain and illusory attempt to redesign the impossible square of the country's development compatibility circle with the submission of monopoly capital, debt interest, the euro and the European Union's taxes, as PS and its government intend. It is necessary to change, moving and leaving behind, the policy of national devastation of the PSD and the CDS, which today still propagandise it, which the country refuses. It is necessary to change, putting an end to convergence, that the PS has continued in essential aspects with PSD and CDS, from labour legislation to economic and financial areas and national sovereignty. Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government and Mrs and Mrs. Members: The state of the nation reveals, with the force that emerges from the reality of life, that the country needs the patriotic and left-wing policy that the CFP defends, in a direction of effective response to national problems, the raising of the living conditions of the people and the creation of conditions for development. Portugal needs a patriotic and left-wing policy to respond to structural problems and recover its delays. You need to remake your way. A path to strengthening rights, improving the living conditions of Portuguese people. A path that includes many other aspects, from the very beginning, the strengthening of the production apparatus and national production. It needs a policy that guarantees the affirmation of a free and sovereign Portugal in a world and in a Europe between equal states in rights and in peace. This is the necessary way to Portugal and to ensure its sustained and sovereign development. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u222	For an intervention, Mr. Minister of Health Adalberto Campos Fernandes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u223	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: when discussing the state of the nation it is important to reaffirm before the Portuguese the commitment of the XXI Constitutional Government to the National Health Service ( SNS ), with its founding principles and constitutional framework. over the past year we have continued the path of regaining the confidence of the Portuguese. The National Health Service focused its priorities on people ensuring more and better access. In 2016, for the first time, for many years, the trend of declining public spending on health was reversed, as attested by the Health Satellite Account recently published by INE ( National Institute of Statistics ). As recently mentioned in the 2017 Spring Report, the Portuguese Observatory for Health Systems ( OPSS ), the priority focus of public health policies should be on reducing inequalities. That is why it is essential to combat economic barriers to access. That is what we have done over the past two years, we have taken very significant steps in this fight. This is an example of the significant reduction in moderate rates,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... drug charges, non-emergency transport of patients, whose exemption has recently been extended to palliative care. This is also why we put forward the strengthening of proximity care, expanding the network of family health units, assigning family health care doctors to more than 500 000 Portuguese, innovating in responses in the areas of oral health, psychology, mental health and nutrition, also strengthening the National Network of Integrated Continued Care (RNCCI) and, for the first time, launching mental health care, also relaunching access to innovative medicines, until then stopped, through the approval of the largest number of innovative medicines in recent years. Health policy has pursued the objective of conferring a new ambition to public health translated into measures of great impact, of which are examples: a new strategy and governance model for the National Vaccination Programme; the new tobacco law, with a particular focus on prevention and control of smoking; the limitation of products harmful to health on automatic sales machines and the introduction of the special rate on sugared beverages; the launch of the national strategy for healthy food. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The National Health Service is now more accessible, efficient and sustainable, as independent entities claim and recognize citizens. In fact, Mr. President and Mr. President and Mr. Members, the only captivatings we recognize in health are those of the memory of the right opposition, which very quickly forgot what he did in the period 2011 to 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is now visible the continuous improvement of care performance in all lines of activity, with improvement of the number of surgeries and the number of consultations and with reduced episodes of urgency, and also of the set of health indicators of Portuguese. The book access and circulation within the National Health Service makes it possible for hundreds of thousands of Portuguese to consult outside the usual hospital network today, as is also the progressive internationalization of care delivery. To achieve this goal, we have achieved in the last two years the best and most virtuous of investments, the investment of human capital and human resources. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They speak of a lack of investment in the SNS, ignoring that there are today more than 4000 professionals than at the beginning of the Legislature, that in the coming months more 1300 new medical specialists will be put in place, including 400 family doctors, who have finally been unlocked a contest, which had been dragged years ago, to 774 new nurses, who significantly increased the number of doctors placed in the interior of the country, who have promoted the improvement of conditions for the establishment of doctors in regions deprived of specific incentives, a program that is currently being a success, that we have today the largest number of doctors retired in the SNS and that for the first time, the flow of professionals outside the SNS, either to the private sector, or to the foreign sector, has been stalled. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We also have a stake in the digital transformation of the SNS. This is the example of the success of the Paperless Recipe and the dematerialization of the complementary means of diagnosis under way, as well as the new portal of the National Health Service and the launch, already next week, of the new contact center of the SNS, which will replace the Health Line 24. over the last year, we continued a sustainable development strategy, investing in public services. at this time, they are in the design phase or construction of about 79 new health centers throughout the country. That never happened in Portugal! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yesterday, in the Ministry of Finance, the public preliminary presentation of the project of the hospital in Lisboa Oriental was made,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u224	It's just studies and projects!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u225	...the largest public hospital investment in recent decades, but we also launched recently the nearby hospital of Sintra...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u226	Sintra's the camera he pays!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u227	...and we're in condition to, 2nd. the semester, launch the projects of Évora and Seixal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] An energy efficiency programme is being implemented for the SNS institutions, the overall amount of which may, with Community funds, exceed around EUR 100 million. The country is continuing an effort to modernize the infrastructures and equipments that have been in the process of absolute stagnation over the past few years. But, Mr. President and Mr. And Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we have no reason to say that we are very pleased, that at the end of these two years we have done everything we had to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u228	And they did very well!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u229	We are very late in relation to what is the need to recover the state in which the National Health Service was delivered to us in November 2015. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why, Mr. President and Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, as a very well-written columnist wrote in a large week, it is difficult to see to pour "crocodile tears" from those who had been on public investment two years ago and fought for massive privatization of services, particularly of health services. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are almost in the middle of the legislature and, with two thirds of the measures provided for in the Government's Programme for the area of health fulfilled, we reaffirm the firm intention to continue the implementation of a programme which has consistently recovered the Portuguese confidence in the National Health Service. A programme based on coherent policies and on the transformation of one of the most relevant public services in the country, continuing to implement policies that guarantee sustained improvement, implementing the commitments assumed, in a framework of social dialogue and political responsibility, strengthening equity in access, with a view to an increasingly strong and socially just National Health Service. But, because a debate about the state of the nation is, above all, an exercise of anticipation of what we will do for the future, the biggest challenge for the current government and the current health team is to be able to reach 2019, celebrate the 40 years of the National Health Service and demonstrate that, also in health, there was an alternative policy consistent with the interest of Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u230	They signed up to request clarification from the Minister of Health. Members and the Bureau are informed that the Minister will respond in two rounds, the first of which is four. Members and then, subsequently, others. So you have the floor, first of all, Mr Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u231	Mr President, Minister of Health, we are in the middle of the legislature, we debate the state of the nation and we cannot ignore that there are various aspects in which health policy remains exactly the same as with the previous government,... [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u232	... so changes are required, and fundamental changes are required. The first is about funding: we cannot continue to waste hundreds of millions of euros for Schäuble to see, with an obsessive and excessive reduction of the deficit and deprive the National Health Service of those hundreds of millions of euros that are so necessary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u233	Ah! How is that possible? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u234	So, the first question, Minister, is this: in the State Budget for 2018 there will or will not be a significant increase for the National Health Service? But it is also necessary to ensure that health is not taken into account by private interests and business and therefore the question that I address to you, very quickly, has to do with the following: the government has to decide what to do with the PPP (public-private partnership) of Braga. Mr Minister, defend the National Health Service and announce here that it will rescue to the public and to the public management a public hospital, which is of all of us. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u235	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Luísa Salgueiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u236	Mr President, Minister of Health, this debate, as has already been said, is the time for us to take stock of what is being done and look forward to what we have to do. And, in the area of health, this government has already or is implementing 75 % of the measures it has entered into in its Programme. What we have been doing is returning to the Portuguese confidence in the National Health Service, corresponding to the challenge of recovering the state in which we inherited the National Health Service. Many are the measures that we can show here, but there are some that we cannot fail to underline, from the outset, in primary health care, the introduction of responses, for the first time, at the level of oral and visual health, which will serve, above all, children and populations more disadvantaged. Also in the continued care was made the greatest reinforcement of the number of vacancies in all types and, for the first time, Portugal becomes to have continued care in the area of pediatrics and mental health, which is one of the marks of this Legislative Session. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But all this, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. And Mrs. Members of the government cannot be made without a great bet, motivation and appreciation of professionals. And, at the end of two legislative sessions, this government already presents to the country the greatest reinforcement of professionals in the history of the National Health Service. They are over 4000 doctors, nurses, diagnostic and therapeutic technicians who are at the service of the National Health Service,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...and this is one of the marks that we can also show. Mr. Minister of Health, in summary, what we would like to ask you is whether, in view of the current situation, the challenges posed by the ageing of the population and by therapeutic innovation, the Government is in a position to ensure the continuity of universal access for all, regardless of their economic and financial situation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u237	Also to ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u238	Mr President, Minister of Health, there is no National Health Service without health professionals. It was not by chance that successive governments attacked the rights of health professionals. They had in mind the destruction of the SNS, to transfer health care to private groups, in fact, a strategy well followed by PSD and CDS, when they were in the government, and which is still reflected in the day to day. If it is true that the replacement of wages and rights and the hiring of health professionals are a positive step, although shy, it is also true that, in view of the depth and size of the political options of the previous Government, it is required that the current Government take measures to allow for further action. Health professionals are demotivated, exhausted. Many of them, after a working day, do another shift because they have not been surrendered. It is necessary to hire health professionals in need — doctors, nurses, senior health technicians, diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, administrative and operational assistants. Combating precariousness, valuing careers, defrosting progressions, applying 35 hours to all those who perform functions in public services are essential for the defense of the SNS, for the professional, social and remuneration of health professionals, and to avoid anticipated exits and emigration of professionals who require the SNS. The end of the use of temporary work enterprises requires the creation of a plan for its progressive reduction, replacing it with the hiring of workers linked to public service, thus avoiding the disruption of services.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u239	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u240	Ensuring access to specialized medical training for all young doctors is essential to ensure the future of the SNS. These are concrete issues and proposals that are fundamental to defending the SNS and to have the capacity to respond to population problems. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you why the Government has not decided to build a public hospital with adequate size and valence, in view of the need for the Sintra population? Has the government conditioned the investment in the public hospital to ensure space for the private? This is the option of transferring the public care provision to private hospitals, making health a business. This is not the choice of defense of the SNS or the right to health! [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u241	Mr Miguel Santos has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u242	Mr President, Minister of Health, the Rector of the University of Coimbra, referring to the educational policy of this government and the parties that support it, said they are the authors of the most serious attack on public school.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u243	You're wrong on the subject!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u244	Therefore, you, these parties, in the evaluation of the Rector of the University of Coimbra, are the authors of the most serious attack on public school. [[PS protests.]] Imagine, Mr Minister, what can be said about the policy that you have been conducting and, of course, is running. Between the self-justification speech of the Left Block and the speech of Mr. Jerónimo de Sousa, of the PCP, crying for a change to a patriotic and left-wing policy, that of the Minister in the middle would be a usurper. That's right, Minister! It is that Mr. Minister still lives from the work of the former Government and the former Minister of Health, Dr. Paulo Macedo, the policies that have been implemented and the results obtained. [[PS and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u245	Patients with diapers made of garbage bags! in your time it was what there was!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u246	I heard Mr Minister at the top of the rostrum, referring to a number of results obtained, but Mr Minister, in good honesty, knows as well as I do that these are policies initiated and part of them, even completed by Dr. Paulo Macedo. We have heard Mr. Moisés Ferreira here asking Mr. Minister of Health what you are going to do about the PPP of Braga. Just see what Mr. Minister has already announced about the Eastern Lisbon hospital : it is a PPP! So, what will you do with that of Braga if, for Eastern Lisbon, another PPP is proposed, starting in 2022 and opening it, except error, in 2024? Oh, my God! in this respect, it's all said. But Mr Prime Minister, today in this debate twice said that there had been no seizures in health, and the Minister repeated it. It is normal! It spent all year 2016 and now 2017 saying that there were no captivations. He always said it. But, Minister, is it true or not that, looking at the General State Account, there are EUR 79, EUR 1 million in captivity? Oh, my God! It is either not true that they have been cut off, because they are not executed, because they withdraw the expenditure, because they are not authorized,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u247	Mr. Deputies, you have reached the limit of the time you had.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u248	... about EUR 1000 million, between education and health and more wells around? Oh, my God! These are the subjects that would, in fact, be perfectly clear. Mr President, I conclude by referring only one thing: Mr Minister, see with great care what is happening at the National Institute of Medical Emergency ( INEM ). This morning we had a hearing with Mr President of INEM and what he has just mentioned is extremely worrying.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u249	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u250	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u251	Abandon your political complexes, Minister, and worry about the security service that is provided at INEM. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u252	To respond to this set of requests for clarification, you now have the floor of Mr Health Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u253	Mr President, I would begin by replying to Mrs Luísa Salgueiro, to mention to her the issue of policies aimed at universal access guaranteed, in conditions that allow, above all, the poorest and most deprived to have access to quality health care. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs Deputies, two years is not too long, but it is long enough — and if I now allow myself, in my reply to the honourable Member, to answer in part to Mr Miguel Santos — so that we do not make political usurpation and much less usurpation of reality. Now, I have a lot of respect for Dr. Paulo Macedo, a person I have known personally for many years, but I do not confuse personal relations with political aspects. Just ask the Portuguese Pharmacies and Portuguese Pharmacies what was Dr. Paulo Macedo's « consulate». [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u254	Yeah, yeah! Ask what it is now!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u255	Just ask what were the difficulties of cancer patients in the previous government, in the non-urgent transport of patients, which was the freezing of therapeutic innovation. Mr. Miguel Santos, frankly, come to say that the consultations made this year, in 2017, are the work of Dr. Paulo Macedo... I know he deserves all the praise he can make to you,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u256	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u257	...but I confess that it is manifestly exaggerated. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Moisés Ferreira raised the issue of policies to be similar or equivalent. I believe that there is a certain degree of injustice in your remark that I would, in fact, like to respond. Mr. Moisés Ferreira, there are very different political options, namely the difference between having more than 4000 professionals today than two years ago. It is a different political option very relevant! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It means that — and it is necessary for the Portuguese to realize that the speech has to be linked to reality and to the truth of facts — we have no means of responding to all problems at the same time and we must start with what is essential. And the essential thing is to remove the SNS from the minimums it was in 2015, without people, without responsiveness. I would like to ask, in particular, the sides on the right, when they speak of this new austerity, this special austerity that we will be practicing, how many public health services have been closed in the last two years and how many have been closed in your time. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Of course, for the PSD, it does not count anything, it does not even count the change in PNT ( normal working time ), in particular the reintroduction of 35 hours. In fact, it's something that even bothers you... [[Protests by PSD MP Angel War.]] ... as surely bothers them the replacement of wages, the recovery of income and the ability to have more people working at the SNS. As for INEM, Member of Parliament, I must say that INEM will close this year with the greatest number of human resources that there is memory, with the total renewal of the VMER fleet ( medical emergency and resuscitation vehicle) and,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Angel War.]] ...now, Mrs. Angela Guerra, you will know, with an ambulance PEM (medical emergency post) placed, for the first time, in our history, in all the municipalities of the country, I repeat, in all the municipalities of the country. Finally, Mrs. Paula Santos, the study that was conducted for Sintra's proximity hospital has characteristics similar to the one that was done for Seixal's proximity hospital. These are hospitals that aim to complement the service, in conjunction with general hospitals, particularly in the Setúbal district, Garcia de Orta and, in Sintra, the Amadora-Sintra / Fernando da Fonseca Hospital. There is, in public planning, no alignment or any interest reconciled with the private strategy. The option of the privates, to open a hospital in Sintra, is a strictly individual option, which concerns them, but at nothing can compromise a rational design that makes sense, which is in Sintra there is a hospital that responds to health care in the outpatient clinic, in outpatient surgery, in consultations and in examinations. And this is what will be done, surely with great relief and great benefit from the Amadora-Sintra hospital. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u258	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u259	Mr President, Minister, we are here to give and build answers. I would like to tell you that, as a Member of Parliament, one of the questions, in the area of health, that the citizens most ask me is that of the family doctors and the lack of family doctors. Citizens know what the commitment was made, particularly temporarily, by the government: by the end of 2017, to provide the country with family doctors for all citizens. This goal, you've already realized, will not be met,... [[Aren't you?Oh, my God!]] [[Aren't you?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u260	...but we need another time, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u261	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u262	We need to know when the more than 850,000 users without a family doctor will be guaranteed this right. And surely Mr Minister will not go beyond the end of the legislature. So, Minister, if a citizen confronts me with this question, what is the answer I can give as a government perspective? [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u263	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u264	Mr President, the Minister of Health can well adopt here a tone of unrealistic optimism — which we obviously understand — but we must tell you that no, Minister, is not good in health in Portugal, and the Portuguese know - well. Your speech doesn't stick to reality. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u265	In fact, his speech does not match the discourse of the PCP and the Left Block, which today asked him very, very interesting questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u266	Thank you very much!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u267	Let me tell you that your portrait of reality will in no way hide serious problems, for which you, at the end of almost two years of governance, cannot say that you are not the first and principal responsible. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u268	What we have is a reality of disinvestment in public health services, with levels of unjustifiable captivating, and I will already go there, with a breakdown of investment in public services and in the hiring of human resources, with the failure to fulfill promises made and the clear dissatisfaction of professionals and with debts that grow and grow and are nearly EUR 1000 million. All of this compromises the provision of health care to Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u269	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u270	It is not just the CDS that says so, Minister, and you know - well, health professionals say - every day,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u271	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u272	... until they make manifests that come to remind you that, in fact, this health policy, your health policy, your health policy, does not respond to the problems of the National Health Service. In fact, they speak up to the definition of the National Health Service. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u273	This is the expression used. What I would like to remind you, Minister, is that, in fact, the General State Account is lying to you! The General State Account rejects it - when it shows that the government has asked Parliament for permission...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u274	Madam Member, you have already exceeded your time, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u275	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. As I said, the General State Account shows that the Government has asked Parliament for permission to spend EUR 10 047 million on health, and finally, Mr Minister, has spent less EUR 331 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u276	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u277	Minister, today is the time to answer: where did you cut? Where were the health cuts? Where did the Portuguese get out of service because of the captives? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u278	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Carla Cruz.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u279	Mr President, Minister of Health, this year and half, and with this new correlation of forces in the Assembly of the Republic, confirmed the defeat of the idea spread by PSD and CDS that there was no alternative to the policy of cuts and impoverishment. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] Above all, it has been confirmed that it is with the return of rights and the increase of wages and income that makes the way for the development and progress of the country. However, the consequences of decades of right-wing policy still mark the serious situation in the area of health and in the accessibility of users to the National Health Service,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u280	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u281	... in particular: waiting list for specialist consultations and additional diagnostic examinations or treatments that do not respect the maximum guaranteed times; too long times of service in emergency services; more than 850 000 users without a family doctor,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u282	So you didn't guarantee it?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u283	... having Portuguese families to pay directly from their very high pockets, compared to other European countries. [[Protests by PSD MP Angel War.]] Although positive steps have been taken, such as the reduction of moderate rates, changes in the non-urgent transport of patients and the reduction in the number of users without a family doctor, it is necessary and possible to go further. Mr Minister, the serious consequences of right-wing policy will last...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u284	Always!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u285	... as long as later you break up with the options that are at its origin. It is necessary to break with the privatization and destruction of the National Health Service and to take steps to deduce user accessibility problems. [[Protests by PSD MP Angel War.]] It is necessary to end the unfair payment of moderate rates. It is necessary to restore the free transport of non-emergency patients to all that they need and reduce the average waiting times for specialist consultations, surgeries and treatments. It is still necessary to assign a doctor and family nurse to all Portuguese...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u286	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u287	So you didn't guarantee it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u288	... and increase the share of generics to reduce the expenditure of families and also of the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u289	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u290	Mr Minister, the specific question we leave you with is this: what measures will be taken by the government to overcome the difficulties experienced by users in accessing the SNS and, in fact, to break up with the policy of the PSD and CDS that has destroyed...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u291	Destroyed? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u292	...the National Health Service? [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP Protests and PCP Counter-Protests.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u293	To reply, Mr. Minister of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u294	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I am very pleased to see this debate between the benches. In fact, it would be of the greatest interest, and it is a suggestion that I leave to the House, that we would examine, if we could, even with an independent entity, a commission, possibly independent,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u295	Why? Oh, my God! Is it like those independent commissions that they create? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u296	... line the line what happens today with the SNS response, particularly in access, with what happened in November 2015. [[Protests from PSD and CDS-PP Members.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we must be very serious. We do not have the theory of facilitation and illusion of things done, but we do not follow this policy made of cases, or almost untrue, or even false facts. [[PSD protests.]] SNS today responds much more: it did not close any service, opened more activity, has more consultations, has more surgeries. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, when we arrived at the Government in November 2015, there were more than 500 000 Portuguese people without a family doctor. I repeat, plus 500 000, this was the win. The honourable Member said very well that we now have 800 000 Portuguese without a family doctor. And we have this year to put, in both times, now in July and then in November, close to 400 specialist family doctors, who are waiting for placement through competition.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u297	You saw the CDS swallow dry from here!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u298	Therefore, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, this year we will certainly not cover the whole but will be very close to the objective, which at the end of the legislature cannot be anything other than full coverage. Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto, the unrealistic optimism she talks about, and that I don't have, can't be opposed to a volunteer pessimism. The honourable Member has even spoken of manifests. Mrs. Member, I have read the manifesto with great interest, it is very well written and, from among the subscribers, there are even several friends of my and fellow travelers. And it is important to see in that manifest the paragraphs referring to 2015. It is worth reading them, Mrs. Member, because they are very constructive. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u299	I'm sorry to hear this!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u300	Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, we are not part of Parliament that bothers with the difference of opinion. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] We are not part of Parliament that bothers the fact that the parliamentary partners... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Isabel Galriza Neto.]] Take it easy! Don't get mad! Mrs. Member, take it easy, let me finish! We do not bother with the socio-professional demand movements, we negotiate, we live well with the strikes, the unions... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u301	What about the CGE? You don't live well with this one!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u302	Madam Member, we have finally regulated the career of TDT (diagnosis and therapy technician). Mrs. Member, 18 years ago they were waiting and we were the ones who regulated it. And there was a strike in the middle, Mrs. Deputy. We have also finished — it will be scheduled soon — by regulating the career of hospital pharmacists, also a career that I had been waiting for 16 years for by regulation. Mrs Deputies, we are well associated with the challenge, but we are negotiating in terms of public interest, in time and the way the Government intends to serve the public interest better.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u303	What about the General State Account?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u304	As for the great misfortune that Mrs. Deputies paint on the National Health Service, there is one thing that is certain: 4000 professionals, more than two years ago, certainly contribute to improving the care and safety of care. There are more access, there are more consultations, there are more surgeries, there are fewer waiting times, but sometimes we have heard here, particularly from the honourable Members. Opposition officers, say there are postponed surgeries. There may be surgery postponed in every hospital. [[One?!...]] [[One?!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u305	One? Oh, my God! Have shame! [[PSD and CDS-PP rice.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u306	...by point-of-the-art circumstances. But to confuse the reality, that you don't want to analyze, that is the official numbers, that can be audited, with the cases and with the casinos...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u307	There he comes with cases and homes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u308	... in which they have specialized in the last two years to analyze health policy, it seems to me, in fact, very little and very short. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u309	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u310	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u311	For an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u312	Is it about the conduct of the works?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u313	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u314	Mr President, the question to the Bureau is only about the conduct of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u315	Mr President, I would say that it is to request the distribution of a document if possible.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u316	So bring this document to the table.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u317	Mr President, may I appoint the document?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u318	You may, of course, appoint Mr Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u319	Allow me to name him?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u320	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u321	Thank you, Mr. President. The Minister referred to an independent entity to assess policies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u322	Mr President, I ask you to name the document, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u323	The documents are the reports of the Health Regulatory Entity, which is an independent entity, and which I will bring to the Bureau to be distributed.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u324	Of course, you know them already, but the Bureau will distribute them.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u325	They are very interesting, Mr President. [[Congrats from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u326	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs. Susana Amador.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u327	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The government has placed at the heart of its policies the promotion of school success, not in the facilitating and exclusional logic of the previous government, which the only thing it did was remove students from the way, leading them to offers, such as vocational courses, that they certified, but did not ensure the quality of learning. instead, this school success program is based on two central pillars: improving the quality of learning and ensuring that everyone has the right to learn. The Socialist Party thus rejects the deviant and populist attacks of the right opposition, that the current policies in education are facilitating and working for statistics. Even because there are several evidences that affirm the opposite and that compete for the quality of the school and the learning and seriousness of the educational policies adopted. Thus, it is evidenced by the ongoing work on pre-school education, a predictor of success, with more than 50 new pre-school rooms in the next school year, which joins the approximately 100 new classrooms of the school year ending. This is evidenced by the Qualifica program, because adult education has been abandoned, and badly, and devalued by the right, and now returns by the hand of the Socialist Party, because investing in adults, who are now in charge of education, is investing in their educators, it is qualifying Portuguese, Portuguese adults in particular. This is evidenced by the construction of the student's profile, because we do not want a decorator or memorizer student, we want a demanding citizen, a scientist, who dominates science and technology, which is critical, that is reflective, interventionive, communicator and able to appreciate the arts. Thus they show the promotion of more autonomy and curriculum flexibility, relying on the professional value of our teachers, rejecting the centralism of the PSD government, which regulates and prescribes disregarding teachers as curriculum development agents. This is evidenced by the ongoing wager in inclusive education, based on principles of a school for everyone, in access to the curriculum, rejecting the clinical model and betting on the educational model, because including is less easy than excluding. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are betting on local work and early intervention, because we have to act on the first sign of difficulty. There is a growing reinforcement in School Social Action, with more school textbooks, now 1. the 4th. the year, there are about 390 000 students covered. in the TEIP (Educational Areas of Priority Intervention ), the number of students per class will be reduced and school meals extended to school holidays. It is a path of great appreciation of the public school, built in dialogue, in proximity, with teachers, with directors, giving voice to the students, removing and rejecting all the quick, economical or isolated decisions to which the PSD and the right used us. This is the way, Prime Minister, to which we do not want to return, to which the Portuguese do not want to return: a path of impoverishment. Blind austerity hasn't been going through here in 20 months. instead of withdrawing human and financial resources from school, we strengthened them and public investment will be redirected to the infrastructure: more school park, more interventions. Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We believe, and we affirm daily, in Portugal, with more confidence, based on a new model of development, where people are at the heart of political decision, because that is the essence of democracy, that is the essence of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u328	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u329	Mr President, I am particularly addressing Mr Prime Minister, because he would like to leave a note on the one which must be the high priority at the level of environmental policy in Portugal. Mr. Prime Minister, taking care of our natural heritage is also taking care of our social component and our economic component. And there is no doubt that a preventive environmental policy is always the one that can take better care of our natural heritage. in this sense, Prime Minister, The Greens will, in the short term, insist on strengthening human resources to care for and monitor our natural heritage. But this preventive policy must also make the Government think about certain options that are made and that, in our perspective, are not good enough, for example, the exploration or research of oil and natural gas off the Algarve, along the Alentejan coast and not only.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u330	That's not the way it is, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u331	It's true, Prime Minister. in this sense, for example, the discharge of 3 to 4 tons of fuel that took place off Peniche should make us think about the risks that we are facing in relation to certain options. Even to finish, there is consistency in environmental policy that has to be assumed, Prime Minister. How do people of certain historical nuclei in the Algarve understand that their dwellings are laid down below when, on the beach of Galé,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u332	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u333	I will finish, Mr. President. I was saying, how do people of certain historical nuclei in the Algarve understand that their dwellings are laid down below when, on the beach of Galé, it is to be built a luxury dwelling above dunes, these dunes that deserve so much preservation that even were built passageways to create corridors for people to pass and not destroy them? And now they're going to build a luxury house there? Oh, my God! Mr Prime Minister, I ask you, please, to reverse this decision and to think seriously about this contradiction. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u334	For an intervention, Mr Carlos César has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u335	Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mr Prime Minister, Mrs. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Balance time, that is the vocation of this parliamentary debate that the House Rules recommend how it should take place at the end of each legislative session. This is not a current debate, it is true, but it is justified by the elucidations that, with regard to unforgettable events, such as those of the Pedrogon tragedy and the ongoing reconstruction actions, have already been done here. It is, however, time to talk about what we have experienced and achieved in a little more than a year and a half of governance. We know that the successes we achieve should not divert us from the attention and need to develop our action with humility, awareness of the concerns, difficulties and challenges that live in a country still subject to significant financial restrictions. The challenges are many: from those involved in improving the sustainability of the economy to the prospects for the preparation of the next European framework post-2020 ; from the strengthening of the banking sector to continuing the improvement of efficiency in the judicial sector or political and administrative decentralization; from the recovery of the Portuguese qualification deficit to combating young and long-term unemployment; from the value of pensions and labour income to the replacement of levels of access to basic public goods and services affected in the years of previous governance, especially in the areas of housing and health. Similarly, the forest reform, which the Government started last October and which this Parliament still has in mind, is an essential structural instrument to contain in time the incidence and size of fires, which will continue, however, in the current context, to strike, unfortunately, Portugal. It is also, in the view of the PS, an absolutely decisive reform in which everyone must be held accountable. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But there is a truth that does not conflict with the need to overcome these challenges: we receive, at the end of 2015, a fragile country, with demoralized entrepreneurs and families destroyed by an ungrateful, unproductive and inhuman austerity, and today we have a Portugal with the confidence rates of citizens and in the economy in the maximum of decades, thus showing the quality and success of the Socialist Party's governance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are not exempt from errors and omissions, which are inherent in human nature and in government requirements, but are always ready to correct them. We are not free from contradictions and funeral events, such as those of the recent fires that degrade lives, caused many unrest among the Portuguese and destroyed local economies, but we will know, I am sure, rebuild what is possible, return normality and make exemplary rehabilitation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What a balance we can make since, a year ago, in this Parliament and, precisely, in this debate, the leader of the PSD was blaring: 'the investment is falling! »,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u336	It's true, it's fallen!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u337	... "the job or stagnates or destroys itself! , « growth has less vigor than before! , "We have exacerbated budgetary risks! », « The Country is moving back! "?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u338	Yes, he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u339	The balance sheet is, fortunately, the fiasco of these premonitions by Mr Passos Coelho. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD Member Protests Pedro Passos Coelho.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u340	Don't irritate him anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u341	instead, investment has risen, employment has increased, growth is constant in the economy and the value of the deficit is welcomed by all European institutions. Not on purpose, the Catholic University has just reviewed, once again, the forecast of economic growth in what it describes as an unequivocal cycle. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And we achieved all this, reversing the opposition that wanted more cuts in pensions, which spoke against rising wages and which still points out, with contempt, what they say is "government customers", when we deal with issues such as gender equality or when we talk about the children, the unemployed and the families to whom we increase social support and help to regain a minimum dignity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have achieved all this, as we have invested or, at least, contained the spiral of de-investment in public services and systems of the Republic that work in areas essential to social cohesion and the quality of the State. It is good to remember, for example, that between 2010 and 2015 the total spending on the defence sector decreased by EUR 1600 million, that Civil Protection suffered a fall in investment of close to 50 % and that with the PSD/CDS Government there was a decrease of around EUR 3000 million in public spending on education and EUR 2100 million in health. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is true that, often, proficiency is more important than means, but it is good to remember that, in these same sectors, with the current government, and without any captivating, we provide more money for the Military Programming Act, for the National Civil Protection Authority, for educational establishments and health units. We have achieved all this and even more, with the support of the parties on the left, with whom we have worked. With them we share the enthusiasm for a more intense change and of them we do not distinguish ourselves for less ambition. We will continue to work to implement the Government's Programme, ensure political and social stability, activate the economy, improve social protection and trust of Portuguese and external entities in the present and future of Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what balance can we take since, a year ago, in this Parliament and, precisely, in this debate, the candidate for the opposition brought what she called 'aids' in the form of seven posters, so that everyone could see very well what our reality is? Oh, my God! Mr. Prime Minister has already remembered these censuses since then. Do you remember the first Christian Assumption poster? I'm going to remember, it was shaking with the decrease in employment! [[PS laughter.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] The reality, fortunately, is the reverse! We have about 170 000 jobs, 264 net jobs created per day and the lowest unemployment rate in the last eight years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u342	Do you remember the 150,000 jobs of José Socrates? Do you remember?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u343	Do you remember the second poster? It was announcing the hedgehog of the investment! The reality has denied her!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u344	You're lying, you're lying!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u345	We had this one. the quarter, the largest growth since 1998 and, according to the Banco de Portugal and the European Commission, Portugal will grow more this year and next year than the euro area and the European Union. PS applause. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Do you remember the third poster? It was about the collapse of public investment! The reality is fortunately the opposite: public investment increases 10, 3 % in nominal terms and 8, 8 % in real terms. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Do you remember the fourth poster displayed by the CDS leader? It was demeaning the shortage of foreign investment! on the contrary, the foreign investment stock in Portugal reached the maximum values. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Do you remember the fifth poster? I was talking about reducing exports! Exports grow three times as much as by the end of 2015 and more than in the European Union to 28 and in the euro area. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Do you remember the sixth poster? It was about the loss of consumer confidence! After all, trust goes up by 10. the consecutive month and presents the best value of ever. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, do you remember the seventh letter, saying that we were raising taxes? The reality, fortunately, is reversed: the tax burden dropped in 2016, after reaching the highest value that there is memory just in the last year of governance of the PSD and the CDS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] One, two, three, four, five, six, seven. Seven CDS posters for the ecopoint. [[PS laughter.]] A leadership of the PSD on the bamboo rope. Good for the Portuguese, congratulations to the government, long life in Portugal better! [[P.S.'s applause standing, and BE's colleagues.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u346	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will be moving to the closing period of the debate on the state of the nation. On behalf of the Government, I give the floor to Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs Augusto Santos Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u347	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Two themes have dominated this debate. The first is the presence and organization of the State; the second is the structure and management of public expenditure. Let's start with the first one. We all know that the logic of going beyond the troika was based on the assumption of the state's needlessness and condensed to a precise objective: to weaken it, reducing it to a minimum. The effects were quickly seen in the decline of the State's social functions, but, as demonstrated in this debate, they also severely achieved the functions of sovereignty, with fewer resources for defence, internal security, justice and diplomacy. So understand us. To defend the sovereign state is to make our voice heard at the European concert, to defend our interests against threats of sanctions and suspensions of funds, threats motivated, indeed, by past budgetary failures. It is to affirm ourselves as a country that honours financial commitments and shows concrete results. Defending the State is respecting the Constitution and not trying to implement unconstitutional measures and it is to take care of a flawless institutional relationship with all sovereign bodies. It is to value and modernize the Administration, restore wages and pensions and recognize the rights of employees, cleaning the state the black spot of precariousness. Defending the State is refusing to privatize social security, education and health, rather than trying to ensure the accessibility and sustainability of its services and services, and it is supporting the State's basic institutions when they face serious incidents, rather than wanting to bring them to a level of political struggle that is neither theirs nor theirs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, so much the false, today, the side of the opposition about the alleged disaggregation of the state. First, because the State was a target of its past action; second, because the opposition programme continues to be removed from the State functions, persons and resources. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Thirdly, because in the surprise that we recently passed, it was so much suffering from the political use that one of the parties on the right side of this House came to make its flag the questioning of the authority of a military leader. Shame on you, ladies. Members of the CDS, a shame! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] For those who say defending the state, it was a shame! Public systems can give in to absolutely exceptional circumstances and institutions can also make very worrying mistakes, but it is not a solution to paralyzing the systems, nor is it a solution to decapitating the institutions. The solution is in the opposite exact, it is in the timely, rigorous and impartial clearance of responsibilities, it is in the review and correction of procedures, it is in the repair and reconstruction of the hit. As the right should know, the State is weakened when it attacks its institutions and is strengthened when it takes care of them in all areas, namely, sovereignty, regulation, economic promotion and social function. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The second theme that marked the debate of the nation's state was the structure and management of public expenditure. This has highlighted what may be the greatest line of contrast between the Government and the majority of Parliament and minority forces. For these, as has repeatedly proclaimed over the past few weeks the leader of the major opposition party, the problem of budgetary management would be in the return of wages and pensions, which would allegedly have been paid with cuts in the operation of services. Singular reasoning, which barely conceals the old drive of being even harder than the troika was, because what it would be necessary to do would be cut, as they say, "structurally", in pensions, wages and social benefits. However, the truth is that the elimination of cuts, based on constitutional normality, the increase in minimum wage, the increase in the value of social minimums, the relaunching of collective bargaining, the reduction of tax burden, the acceleration of investment support, all this improved the income of families and the conditions of business activity. Employment has grown significantly, unemployment is falling significantly, domestic demand has recovered, the number of migrants has decreased and all data and all economic projections show results, show confidence, with particular emphasis on exports and private investment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] None of this was done with artificial and unsustainable incentives, with excess consumption or public expenditure. at the same time, careful budgetary management has made it possible to achieve the lowest deficit of the last 40 years and to achieve the objective of exiting the excessive deficit procedure, thus making us a budget strike for reproductive investment and sustained improvement of public services. It calls into question this policy of budgetary rigour by confusing cuts and inventing reductions where, in fact, there existed and there is investment is not only to place itself in contravention of the European responsibilities of Portugal, which would already be serious, it is not only to disregard the efforts of all those who in Portuguese society, employees and workers, entrepreneurs and leaders, have contributed in daily practice to achieve the objective, which would be even more serious, it is above all to demonstrate again, as still today did Mr Passos Coelho, who ended his intervention at the exact moment he could speak in the future,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] It said, criticising the budgetary management policy is, above all, to demonstrate once again that the programme of the current opposition is the same programme that it did when it was in government: cutting incomes, raising taxes, closing services. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The fixation in captivity does not seem to me to be a good advisor. You will run to the risk, anyone who lets himself be stuck by this fixation in captivity, to have to say, like Camões, in his famous Endeschas: « That child/ who has me as a child/ because in her living/ no longer wants me to live». [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] Now, the country would need a living opposition. We want this opposition and this leadership of the strong and healthy opposition. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The country means people. They are people who deserve a stronger economy, capable of generating jobs. They are people who deserve healthier public finances, capable of facing external shocks, a modernized public administration, friends of citizens and systems, services and public institutions capable of preventing and responding to crises, incidents and vulnerabilities. The lives of people are very different from the episodes of RTP Memory, which the opposition here so obsessively plays. People's lives have to do with economics, well-being, security and freedom. Therefore, allow me, Mr President, to conclude this debate on behalf of the Government, saying that we know well how much the country has gone through. He reminds us all of the much that is to be done in relation to the protection of peoples, the development of the territory, the improvement of services and the cohesion of society, and this awareness gives us all even more energy, determination and even more sense of responsibility for Portugal and for Portuguese. [[PS applause, stand up.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u348	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the single item on the agenda, the debate on the state of the nation. I will give the floor to Mr. Secretary of the Bureau, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, to announce the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u349	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you have entered the Bureau and the motion for a resolution No 55/ XIII was accepted ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Cooperation Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Kingdom of Morocco on Internal Security signed in Lisbon on 20 April 2015 which falls to 2. the Commission ; Parliamentary assessment No 40 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Decree-Law No 67 / 2017 of 12 June amending the system for the creation of forest intervention zones ( PSD ) ; projects of lein. 571 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter to Law No 151 / 2015, of 11 September, Budget Framework Act ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, and 572 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a )............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. the Commission ; and draft resolutions Nos 978 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to definitely end pollution and bad-heaps caused by two factories in Arrifana, Santa Maria da Feira ( BE ), 979 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the approval of expeditious procedures and measures to minimize the consequences of forest fires in Pedrogão Grande, Castanheira de Pera, Ansião, Alvaiázere, Figueiró dos Vinhos, Arganil, Gois, Penela, Pampilhosa da Serra, Oleiros and Sertan between 17 and 24 June 2017 ( PSD ) and 980 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the preservation and protection of the ruins of the ancient Roman city of Balsa in Tavira ( PS ), which falls to 12. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-07-12.u350	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the next plenary meeting will take place on 19 July, Wednesday, at 3 p.m. The next item will be a number of points. We will therefore hold elections to the following entities: Regulatory Council of the Regulatory Entity for Social Communication ; Supervisory Board of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic ; National Data Protection Board ; Monitoring Board of the DNA Profile Database ; National Council for Education ; and Ombudsman. Secondly, we will appreciate petition No 218 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — They request the adoption of the measures necessary for the effective and total depollution of the shoreline of the Good Water ( Luís Santos et al.) together with draft resolution No 974 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Depollution of the Good Water River ( The Greens ). We shall proceed, thirdly, to the examination of petition No 21 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Equal labour rights between workers with individual employment contracts and workers with public employment contracts in the institutions of the Portuguese State ( Mauro Germano de Carvalho Rosa et al.). Fourthly, we will appreciate petition No 219 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — They request the adoption of the measures necessary to stop the smelling of cascade from factories located in the municipality of Santa Maria da Feira ( Maria Clara Martins da Silva Carvalho and others) together with draft resolutions 973 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — To solve the pollution caused by two processing units installed in Arrifana — Santa Maria da Feira ( The Greens) and 978 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to definitely end pollution and bad-heaps caused by two factories in Arrifana, Santa Maria da Feira ( BE ). Fifthly, petition No 119 / XIII ( 1 ) will be appreciated. ( a ) — In defense of the exercise of the profession of Engineer ( Ricardo David Lopes León and others) together, and in general, with Bill No. 495 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Second amendment to Law No 31 / 2009 of 3 July 2009 approving the legal regime establishing the professional qualification required of technicians responsible for the preparation and subscription of projects, for the supervision of works and for the direction of work, which is not subject to special legislation, and the duties applicable to them and repealing Decree No 73 / 73 of 28 February ( PSD ). In sixth place, we will examine petition No 247 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — They call for the simplification of electoral laws in the exercise of the right to vote by Portuguese residents abroad ( We Are Also Portuguese ). In seventh place, we will appreciate petition No 207 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Requests that the first pilot-experiences in integrated mental health care be released budgeted, formally released and inaugurated to support people who are disadvantaged on grounds related to mental illness ( FamilyMente — Portuguese Federation of Associations of Families of People with Mental Disease Experience ). Finally, no discussion time was allocated to the motions for resolutions Nos 51 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves Convention No 187 on the Promotional Framework for Safety and Health at Work adopted by the General Conference of the International Labour Organisation at its 95th meeting. the Session, held in Geneva, on 15 June 2006, and 54 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Approves the Protocol amending the Convention on Infringements and certain other acts committed on board aircraft signed in Montreal on 4 April 2014. at the end of the debate, there will be scheduled votes. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 56 minutes.]]
