ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Standing Committee of the Assembly of the Republic. Let's start our meeting. [[It was 15 hours and 8 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. I wanted to start by telling everyone who's already finished the vacation I hope you've had a great vacation. Yesterday, at the Conference of Leaders, we decided on the agenda for this meeting, but before we came to the first point I would ask Mr Duarte Pacheco to report on the file as usual.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted by Mr President, several legislative initiatives. I begin by referring to Bill No 95 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Second amendment to Decree-Law No 203 / 2009 of 31 August establishing the pass sub23@superior.tp, applicable to all students of higher education up to the age of 23 ( ALRAM ), which falls to 6. the Commission. The projects of lein.o 589 / XIII ( 2 ) were also entered. ( a ) — Sets the scheme for the allocation of compensation in addition to the remuneration supplements that are based on the provision of work under conditions of risk, penosity and insanity ( sixth amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June—General Public Works Act ) ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 590 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Regularization of staff recruited on a precarious basis in the territorial administration and in the local business sector ( CFP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 591 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Determines the application of the EPAL business agreement to all employees of companies established under Decree-Law No 34 / 2017 of 24 March ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 592 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Provide the consumer with information on the purchase price to the food producer ( The Greens ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 593 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Establishs the functional segregation of the resolution authority within the Banco de Portugal ( PSD ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 594 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — The fourth amendment is made to Decree-Law No 228/2000 of 23 September establishing the National Council of Financial Supervisors ( PSD ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 595 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Strengthens the transparency and incompatibilities and impediments of Banco de Portugal ( PSD ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 596 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — The second amendment is made to Law No 67 / 2013 of 28 August 2013 approving the framework law of independent administrative entities with the functions of regulating the economic activity of private, public and cooperative sectors ( PSD ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 597 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Done at 44. the amendment to Decree-Law No 298 / 92 of 31 December establishing the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies ( PSD ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 598 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Ensure access to minimum banking services to customers with a residential credit contract ( BE ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 599 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Strengthens the defence of competition and regulates compensation actions for infringement of the provisions of competition law ( PrivateEnforcement ) ( PSD ), which falls to 6. the Commission, and 600 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Clarify and strengthen the rights of workers in the event of a transfer of business or establishment ( CFP ), which falls to 10. the Commission. Parliamentary judgments 42 / XIII were also entered ( 2 ). ( a ) — Decree-Law No 77 / 2017 of 30 June establishing measures to boost the capital market with a view to diversifying the sources of financing for companies ( PSD ), 43 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Decree-Law No 90 / 2017 of 28 July amending the legal system of social income for insertion ( PSD ) and 44 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Decree-Law No 90 / 2017 of 28 July amending the legal regime for social inclusion income ( CDS-PP ). Draft resolutions Nos 1021 / XIII ( 2 ) were also introduced. ( a ) — by preserving and musealizing the Collection of Santa Maria Madalena or the Converts ( PCP ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 1022 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — To halt the liquidation of PT, to defend workers and the national interest ( CFP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1023 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Valuation of the popular associative movement ( CFP ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 1024 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Removal of tolls at A23 ( PCP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1025 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take effective measures to solve the environmental problems caused by SN Seixal, National Siderurgia, SA, Paio Pires village, in the municipality of Seixal ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1026 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government create a working group in the context of the feasibility of the urban conversion process, in the area covered by the military service of the NATO Municipality Deposit in Lisbon, in Quinta da Lobateira and Pinhal das Freiras and in Pinhal da Palmeira, in Fernão Ferro, in the municipality of Seixal ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1027 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — by the relocation of residents in the Chícharos Valley, in the municipality of Sixal ( PCP ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1028 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Training and awareness-raising of citizens on how to act in case of danger resulting from forest fire ( The Greens ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1029 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government renegotiate the conditions of State loans to the New Bank and Banif ( PSD ) resolution fund, which falls to 5. the Commission, 1030 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Preservation and exploitation of typical Tejo ( The Greens ) vessels, which fall to 7. the Commission, 1031 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — by depollution of the river Lis river basin ( The Greens ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1032 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — The need to resume the retraining works of the John de Barros High School, in the Six ( The Greens ), which goes down to 8. the Commission, 1033 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Rapid decontamination of the dwellings of the mines of the Urgeirice and guarantee the environmental recovery and preservation of the mining heritage ( The Greens ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1034 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the public management of the national network of Pousadas de Juventude ( The Greens ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1035 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends the strengthening of the financial supervisory mechanisms of the European Union and the completion of the Banking Union ( PSD ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 1036 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure access to Alqueva water by the municipalities of the south of Lower Alentejo ( PS ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1037 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends the automation of the allocation of the minimum service account to bank clients ( BE ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 1038 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government include the Council of Maction in the forest management pilot project ( PSD ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1039 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — On support measures for potato producers ( CFP ), which fall to 7. the Commission, 1040 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — In defence of the postal public service, for the recovery of public control of CTTs, Post Offices of Portugal, SA ( PCP ), lower than 6. the Commission, 1041 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government include the municipalities of Oleiros, Vila Velha de Rhodão, Castelo Branco and Proença-a-Nova in the forest management pilot project ( PSD ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1042 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Assessment of compliance with the law with respect to the right of the user to follow-up in the institutions of the National Health Service ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 1043 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government include the municipalities of Gavião and Nisa in the forest management pilot project ( PSD ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1044 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Malta ( President of the HR ), 1045 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Barcelona ( President of the HR ) and 1046 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the end of the collection of tolls at A23 ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission. Mr. President and Mr. Members, we also have for the vote an opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, concerning the waiver of the mandate of Mr Alberto Martins ( PS ), a electoral circle of Porto, being replaced by Hugo Miguel Costa Carvalho, in the face of the manifestation of the impossibility of assuming the mandate by candidate José Manuel Santos de Magalhães, in accordance with Articles 7. it's 9. the Statute of Members, with effect from 20 July 2017, including.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. Mrs. Members, let us therefore enter into the first item on the agenda, which is from the reading of the message of the President of the Republic on the dismissal, without promulgation, of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 155 / XIII — The first amendment, by parliamentary review, to Decree-Law No 86 - D / 2016 of 30 December, which assigns the municipality of Lisbon to the full assumption of the legal powers and powers with regard to the public transport service of the passenger area in the city of Lisbon, transfers the contractual position held by the State in the Public Service Grant Agreement concluded with Caris, and transmits all the representative shares of the capital of the State Caris social capital to the municipality of Lisbon. This message, which arrived on 9 August 2017, is as follows: « His Excellency Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, 1. In principle, in a state of democratic law, the legislator must, in honor of the logic of the separation of powers, not resorting in a case-by-case manner to specific decisions of the Public Administration, which must meet the economic, financial and social reasons that are changing, and in which it is in a better position to judge, even if it is closer to the problems to be solved. Even if this undesirable legislative intervention may not be described as unconstitutional — and therefore not give rise to appropriate supervision — it can be politically counterproductive, and therefore excessive and censorable. 2. This Decree imposes on the Government and local authorities a regime which prohibits any grant of Carris, even if it may one day correspond to the will of the local authority. 3. The scheme under consideration, in taxing, represents an excessively politically excessive intervention by the Assembly of the Republic in a concrete decision-making area of the Public Administration, in particular the local authority, drastically conditioning the future option of the local authority itself. I therefore believe that the Assembly of the Republic must have the opportunity to reconsider this matter. I therefore return without promulgation the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic No 155 / XIII. Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, President of the Republic. Do not keep on seeking. ” Further forward, we will have a time for parliamentary review, but it was decided at the Leaders Conference that each parliamentary group will have two minutes today to express itself on the message of the President of the Republic. As long as the Bureau is awaiting registrations for this point, I inform you. Members that the 2 minutes are the maximum opening of the Conference of Leaders for interventions, but may not be exercised in whole or in part. [[Pause.]] Mr Nuno Magalhães of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS believes that this veto by Mr President of the Republic is a expected and even due veto in a democracy like ours and in a state of democratic law and of full European Union law like ours. in fact, this decree which is now vetoed by Mr President of the Republic is clearly against the autonomy of local power, the freedom of choice of citizens, even independence from the political choices of these citizens in elections and somehow violates the separation of powers that must be, and is, a fundamental primacy of our right.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u5	Don't rape!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u6	This is also a good example of the Government that we have and the PS that we have: a government politically hostage and kidnapped by the PCP and the Block and a PS that, in a few days, has an opinion, when it is in the Government, on behalf of this alliance with the leftmost to the left, and in the government of the City of Lisbon, of Dr Fernando Medina, who thinks how the Socialist Party thought but does not think like that of the Government which currently supports opportunistically. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what we think is that, more important than discussing whether the transport system is public or private, we are interested in discussing whether it is good or bad, whether it is good or not, whether it serves well or serves badly the population.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u7	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u8	In our view, it is wrong, and it is wrong, in particular, because of the captivating done by this government with the support of the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the CFP. These parties, instead of being concerned about ideological issues in the past, would say we and many people would think — far away, but unfortunately present, because of the current political situation we live in, should be more concerned about the reasons for the lack of money for metro tickets, for the reductions in the routes, for the fact that there is no reduction in the price of people's passes. Therefore, and following the veto of Mr President of the Republic — I repeat, an obvious and due veto in a democratic state of full European Union — we challenge the Socialist Party so that it can return to what was and put aside the left-most demands and put the national interest and, above all, the interests of the lisboets, the interests of the people in front of everything else. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u9	The Bureau no longer registers to date. [[Pause.]] Mr Luís Testa of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u10	Mr President, the Socialist Party puts itself here in a position which, indeed, would be expected, since the President of the Republic had exactly the same approach to the same mechanism adopted with regard to the STCP ( Corporation for Collective Transport of the Port ). Don't take me wrong, but the CDS has made a mistake in all of your arguments. I don't know if it's because of the electoral period in which we live, but we're believing in the PS that the culture of commitment is always the best for solving these kinds of issues, this kind of problems, which affect a city, where people move in public transport. With regard to these same people, the CDS reported only one set of banalities. I believe that in this House of the Republic, in the light of our commitment to the issues of the CTS, we can, on the one hand, safeguard the concerns revealed by the President of the Republic, taking on or reassuming the commitment of the Socialist Party to the Portuguese, taking into account the need to move closer to the management of the transport companies of its beneficiaries. On the other hand, we are also in a position to say again that the commitment made in this House with the other parties that support and support this government is possible to guard against the amendments that have been raised. Therefore, it is this culture of commitment which the CDS often states but which rarely practices; it is this culture of commitment which the CDS often states in its word but which it always lacks in its action. What I am asking the CDS is: what are the proposals that you can set out to amend such a serious law, in your opinion, and which can be presented here in this House? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u11	Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the privatization of public transport, either through concession, sub-concession or any other legal instrument, always ends up transforming citizens with rights into customers, which only serve to fatten the profit of the private. This is also why the Greens have challenged from the outset the process of privatization of Carris which the previous government has initiated. We have also presented an initiative in the previous legislation with the aim of blocking the process that has ended up being plunged by the PSD and the CDS. It follows that, following the amendment of the parliamentary framework, it was possible to stop the previous government's claim to privatize Carris and that the Greens contributed to a solution guaranteeing the public nature of Carris, whose diploma the President of the Republic decided not to promulgate. And it decided not to promulgate, not because legislative intervention was unconstitutional, but because, in its view, it is politically counterproductive and therefore excessive and censorable. The Greens do not accompany the President of the Republic, nor in the decision not to promulgate the diploma that ensures the public nature of the public service provided to the citizens by Carris, nor do we follow the grounds that support it. In our view, with this diploma, the Assembly of the Republic is not imposing, and much less drastically, the future option of the local authority itself. And it is not just because in the future, if the Authority considers that it does not intend to assume the powers and powers with regard to the public service of collective passenger surface transport, it will always be able to bring those powers and powers back to the Government. We respect Mr President's decision but do not follow the reading of the diploma. In conclusion, I would just like to say that the Greens express their full willingness to confirm this diploma or to seek another solution to ensure the public management of Carris.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u13	Mrs Paula Santos, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as the CFP had already had the opportunity to point out, this political veto was expected. It reflects the already known position of the President of the Republic, who does not accept that it can prevent the delivery to or its participants of Carris' privates. But the political option of safeguarding companies that are of the people is not only legitimate, as it is actually the one that effectively fulfills the defense of the public interest, the defense of the people and the workers and the defense of the Constitution of the Republic. We are faced with an attitude and a political position of the President of the Republic which, after all, we already knew, from another legislative process on this sector, which had to do with the law of the Assembly of the Republic which prevented the privatisation of the STCP. As we said then, this is a political option rather than a constitutional one: this decree was passed by a majority in the Assembly of the Republic, since it is understood that public transport should not be the subject of appropriation by economic groups. It is precisely because of the national interest, the interests of the people and the workers — and contrary to what we have heard here by the CDS — that, in our understanding, there is no reason why PS, PCP, The Greens and the Left Block do not approve any further amendments to the Decree-Law that are just and necessary, even those that have been challenged by the President of the Republic. The CFP shall intervene to contribute and ensure that the prohibition on privatization of Carris and its participants is again approved, as well as the other amendments adopted, including measures to enhance collective bargaining. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u15	There are two parliamentary groups that have not yet intervened, so I ask whether they intend to sign up. [[Pause.]] Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if this were a debate on cuts and investment in Caris, PSD and CDS would certainly have to assume their responsibilities for the degradation of the service in the past four years, which now begins to be reversed.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u17	Of the last four years, two are yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u18	But it is not, it is a debate about the nature of public service in Carris. Carris is a public company, which provides essential service to the citizens of the Lisbon area and the decision to maintain an essential service in the public sphere is a decision that is incumbent upon the State, the Government and ultimately the Assembly of the Republic and the parliamentary majority that is represented in it. It is never too much to remember that there is an agreement between the Left Block and the Government, for example, to block privatizations and concessions to private public services. The Left Block understands and has defended that the public service of Carris can be better managed if this management is done by the municipalities. They must be able to manage public transport services, in close proximity to the people, in freedom and autonomy. But municipalities have a duty to respect the conditions of public service that have been established by the Government and the Assembly of the Republic within their legislative powers. These conditions are in accordance with the structural and political options of the Government and the Assembly of the Republic, according to the parliamentary majority formed here in this House. in this case, the fundamental political option, and legitimately democratically, is not to allow private public transport to be granted, because we know and we understand that this is a first step towards privatization. by preventing this substantive political option, certainly, but legitimately taken by the Assembly of the Republic, the veto of the President of the Republic is, logically, a political veto, based on political arguments that the Left Block cannot accept.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u19	The Constitution provides for this!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u20	We therefore reiterate our willingness to reaffirm our commitment here, reaffirming the importance of Carris' maintenance in the public sphere. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u21	by the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Leite Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, by the way, the veto of Mr President of the Republic was expected by all and the arguments are also reminded that Mr President of the Republic says, in his veto, when he returns this diploma to the House, that the Decree requires the Government and the local authorities to ban any grant of Carris, even if it may correspond one day to the will of the local authorities. Therefore, it is an unjustified intrusion in local autonomy that VV. They both propagate, both defend themselves; fill their mouths with declarations of principle on the autonomy of municipalities, local authorities, and, at the first opportunity, for various reasons, they are alibi. in fact, this was a spectacular veto, for several reasons: this diploma is, in fact, an unacceptable intrusion into local autonomy, because it is based on ideological prejudices, political calculus and, above all, on trade union tactics, as the Communist Party well knows; it still conditions the right to freedom of choice of the municipality of Lisbon and, to be found, would be a grave unacceptable precedent. Any municipality in the country can grant its urban transport service to a private company. In Lisbon, it can't, because management doesn't want or leave. And why? Because on the part of the Communist Party, what matters is in some way to secure and defend the positions of its trade union oligarchy. on the side of the Left Block, what is interesting is to start to signal an ideological prejudice that has already been said here, but reminds a return to the time of the PREC (Revolutionary Process in Course) and do not attempt to announce and signal this type of... [[Laughs from BE Mariana Mortágua's deputy.]] Mrs. Deputy, I know it bothers you, but a bit of composure doesn't hurt anyone. On the part of the Communist Party, this is a way of paying with radical ideological diplomas the parliamentary support that the forces of the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens guarantee for coordination. from the point of view of the attack on local autonomy, this diploma is a shame.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u23	Sir, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u24	I will finish, Mr. President. It is shameful to see the Socialist Party support such initiatives, which are an attack on local autonomy and a statement of principle against freedom of initiative and private initiative. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u25	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the first point on the return, without promulgation, of the Decree of the Assembly of the Republic on collective transport of passenger surface in the city of Lisbon. Let us turn to the second point, which concerns political declarations, where each parliamentary group has five minutes, without requests for clarification. The order of speeches is expected. First of all, by PSD, you have the floor of Mrs Teresa Leal Rabbit.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u26	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. In an interview with the Diário de Noticias, on 26 August, Manuel Alegre said: "By doing what is management, the PS has saved himself. Do not keep on seeking. ” This phrase reveals a program, affirmed by a militant historical Socialist Party, a programme that has high costs for the country and demonstrates well the priorities of the Socialist Party, which chooses to save the PS to the detriment of the economic development and progress of Portugal. Conciliation the inconclusive is impossible task and the results are in view of the Autoeuropa case. There is a price to be paid to radical left-wing parties who despise the private economy in the name of the superior interest of an outdated, collectivist and statisticizing ideology, which the Portuguese do not want to see materialized in Portugal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u27	The Communist Party and the Left Block adopt a smooth speech of self-reliance for the achievements imposed by the PS, a party that empowers them with the governmental solution by which he chose, according to Manuel Alegre, to save the PS. The embarrassment of the PS in the face of an attempt to destroy a very significant portion of the Portuguese economy is manifestly embarrassing. The risks are gross.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u28	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u29	In 2011 and 2012, the PSD-led government has negotiated one of the largest Portuguese industry projects of the last 10 years: an investment made by Volkswagen of around 800 million euros that will double the exports of Autoeuropa from Portugal and which will result in the creation of about 2000 direct and indirect jobs. This was the legacy that the PSD left to the country and the Socialist Party, it was a conquest of the Pedro Passos Coelho government in the name of national interest, development and progress.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u30	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u31	During 26 years of the existence of Autoeuropa in Portugal, with economically troubled periods and several moments of fragility, social peace and understanding between workers and administration have never been called into question. Now, in 2017, in which, according to the current PS government, the year of greater economic growth since 2000, Autoeuropa, a landmark of the Portuguese industry of undeniable importance for the economy, for hundreds of families, for current generations and for future generations, faces, for the first time in its history, a strike of workers. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, August 30 was a bad day. It was a bad day for Volkswagen, for workers and for the Portuguese economy that was a bad day for foreign investors. That's bad for Portugal and it's bad for Portuguese. Changes always force negotiations. It is obviously necessary to safeguard the rights of workers, but there was always understanding until 30 August. It is worth thinking about what a day of strike in Autoeuropa means: it necessarily means financial damage to the company, which can reach EUR 5 million, with a breakdown of production of about 400 cars; it is still a negative impact on national exports, the main engine of economic growth. Why is this instability now? There has always been peace of mind, negotiations between workers and the administration of Autoeuropa have always reached the right port, and in this field there has always been a degree of sustained stability. What's changed? This is a strike with political significance. The fight against the private initiative and the economic model in which we are integrated is an obsession of left-wing parties. To get to power, the PCP and the Left Block are simulating an ideological tolerance that they don't have and then it's worth everything. It is worth destroying the Portuguese economy exponentially, with collateral damage and retrofits; it is worth destroying a foreign investment of around EUR 800 million; it is worth destroying the duplication of exports by Autoeuropa; it is worth threatening the creation of around 2000 direct and indirect jobs. The PCP and the Left Block are fighting against the market, against capital, against the private economy and, consequently, against workers, families, job creation and private investment. In short, they are fighting against an inclusive economy that produces wealth, jobs, development and progress. Without being able to instrumentalise workers, promising them the defence of rights that they would allegedly be disrespected, they hide the real agenda and the size of the risks.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u32	Mrs. Deputy, you've already outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u33	I will finish, Mr. President. at least the forced struggle for acquired rights will lead to a reduction in job creation and, who knows, the extinction of some existing ones. But it can go further and, in the worst scenario, lead to the factory closing in time and to the return of high unemployment in the Setúbal district. These are small risks for a left that has at stake survival and the fight for power.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u34	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u35	I will finish, Mr. President. António Costa, Prime Minister, when asked what the government is planning to do to help find peace at work, says that it is not up to the government to interfere in the negotiation process that takes place in the company.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u36	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u37	After all, the company is private and negotiation is internal. But isn't it the private Altice either? About Altice, Antonio Costa didn't think so. Mr. President, I appreciate your tolerance. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u38	For a political statement, Mr. Carlos César has the floor to speak on behalf of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have a new government, a new direction and a renewed hope. For more than 20 years the confidence of consumers was not so high and that of economic agents is three times higher than the values of the end of 2015. A confidence in the new direction which is reinforced by a political stability which is exercised in a plural way, without unanimity or breakdown of party identities, and which results from a commitment made in a free and transparent manner and a link to the defence of the national interests of the parties that supported the government's investment. A new course for which success greatly contributes to the commitment and dynamism of economic and entrepreneurship, business and trade union organisations, the majority of the bodies of regional and local public administrations and understanding and increasing recognition by the European and international institutions of the sustainability of the Portuguese political route. We agree with a party opposition that unfortunately devalues and is not constructive, and I refer in particular to the PSD. We welcome, however, the distancing that the CDS has been making, at least creative, from obsessive resistance to political consultation, as now happens in the case of medium-term investments in public infrastructure. We do not underestimate our preferred options, but we do not disregard the demand for consensus. They are consensuss that, once achieved, do not erase or prejudice the differences of methods and content that separate the right that governed from the left that governs, the right that has impoverished the left State that seeks to rehabilitate, the right that destroyed the social cohesion of the left that works for the reduction of inequalities, which differentiates the right that has associated itself with the interests of occasion on the left that conjugates the general confidence of internal and external investors, the right that is the prisoner of the left's most friendly taxes of taxpayers. We do not ignore the difficulties in the way of economic and social recovery that we are undertaking and the weaknesses we still have, but there is no need to congratulate the many and varied progress we have made, in dimensions such as economic growth, employment or the recovery of family income. In 2016, 460 people, per day, left the situation of poverty or social exclusion.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u41	However, we cannot ignore the complexity and risks that the international situation presents, whether in cases such as Venezuela, which affects many Portuguese, either in general or with the escalation of tension originating in North Korea, whether at European level, with the doubts that arise with the exit of the United Kingdom, uncertainty about transatlantic partnership or instability and armed conflicts in the southern and eastern vicinity. The challenges of budgetary policy, in this second half of the legislature, are many: more fiscal justice, including the reduction of charges of more than one million and a half families; the value of human capital, for the quality and efficiency of the Public Administration; improving the income of assets and pensioners and support for the unemployed; continuing on the agenda of the labour reforms provided for in the Government Programme; improving the performance of public systems and services, including in health and education; providing more resources in culture, science and housing policies; giving greater strength to businesses; mobilizing public investment; prioritizing intervention areas such as forests, transport and the sea; working to improve the resistance of the economy in front of risks and delays that may compromise it; addressing the balance of public accounts and the reduction of public debt and the value of the National Health Service; relaunching the debate on decentralisation, beginning the public consultation on the new local finance law; giving priority to the new European framework for support after 20-20. For these and other challenges we will not lack enthusiasm, ambition and commitment. All are important to Portugal better than we want, all are important to the Government of the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u42	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Yesterday the referendum on the independence of Catalonia was scheduled for 1 October. The Block of Left of the House of Democracy of Portugal welcomes the initiative for the realization of this referendum because it welcomes the democratic acts to consult the populations. We consider today, as we always consider, that the people are the most orderly. Therefore, on their self-determination, on the independence of their nation, the people must have an opinion. [[Congratulations from BE.]] We know that you are already standing up blackmailing this democratic act. On the other hand, the voices of Madrid soon launched blackmail rallies, even police, to prevent the referendum being carried out. And this is also reason for our solidarity with the nation of Catalonia. We know as well as there is always a blackmail about democracy. We felt it two years ago, when the Portuguese people, called to choose the political solution for the period after the troika, gave a red card to PSD and CDS and said they had confidence in a more stable future. Remembering-CL would be good to have said, as they said at the time, that stability or it was either absolute majority or it was not and either it was with the right or it was not. Now, the people, who lived unstable for four years, with cuts in wages, pensions, unemployment and recession, knew well that it was in democracy that governed their stability and that it was their vote that could make the difference. We remember well how often they said that it was not possible to make the way we are doing, that it was not possible to restore the holidays that had been stolen because this was a bad sign for Europe ; that it was not possible to increase the national minimum wage because it would increase unemployment ; that it was not possible to defuse pensions because the path that had been agreed on right with Europe was to cut 600 million euros in pensions ; that there could not be a change in the enormous weight of taxes on people because the overtax of IRS, at most, only there for 2019 would disappear. We know well how they told us that it was impossible to have a better policy of social support, because it led to the chaos of public accounts and today, in the midst of the legislature, two years ago this reversal of the path of destruction carried out by the PSD and CDS, what we well know is that all these negative claims about the future have never been made. The mask of blackmail from the right has fallen and the reality has shown that, when we have confidence in the country, the country responds positively and has confidence in itself. That is why, when we are faced with the challenges ahead, the question is: will we listen to those who, in the past, have acquiesced against the country? Should we now listen to the voice of those who said that the step was always greater than the leg and that we would not be able to make this path, or should we realize that confidence in the country, in the recovery of income, is the way we should follow to ensure that confidence in the country does not disappear? This is the choice that is on the table and, on our part, the answer is unequivocal: we have not heard in the past and we will not listen, now, to the voices of the destruction of the country that said it was not possible to recover wages. We will demand, because we are going to continue this path, because we believe in this path, that the path is of recovery and what we expect is that there is the courage that no one wants to stop this train that is in motion. This reality is strange to the right, I know - well; now we do not believe that it is strange to those who made a parliamentary majority for the construction, as I said recently, a new direction for this country. This is the challenge we will have in the coming months. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Left Block did not want to finish the political declaration of opening this legislative year without leaving a word of solidarity for the Portuguese who suffered from the fires this summer. We know that the time of the fires has not ended, we can hope that it will not make more victims or create more problems, we also know that there is a committee of experts working and we look forward to this work so that we can give effect to the political debate. This expectation, however, is assured with the assurance that we have not failed in our country and that we are supportive of all those who have suffered the effects of the fires in their skin. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u44	For a political declaration, the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP has the floor, through Mrs Cecilia Meireles.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the last two years, almost since this government, diligently supported by the PS, the Left Block and the PCP, has entered into office, the word 'captives' has become part of the agenda in many public services. First of all, it is important to know what captivations are. Captivations are cuts, cuts are cut by the silence, they are spending that was planned in the Budget and that is announced by the government and partners with pump and circumstance but that then, in the silence of the cabinets, the Ministry of Finance is short and does not authorize, by the silence. This is completely unacceptable for three fundamental reasons, which go far beyond the discussion of any budget: for lack of real, for lack of responsibility and for lack of transparency. It is not true that they are cut with the express intention of disguise and concealing reality; there is no responsibility because they are cuts that alter, in fact and in practice, the Budget that is discussed and approved here in Parliament; there is a lack of transparency because they are cuts that are only known in their entirety long after they have happened. We are going to the facts for the principle of conversation: the seizures, or cuts through the silence, have reached a record value last year, having remained close to EUR 1000 million, a very high value above the previous years and which only finds parallel in 2010, i.e. the government has actually caught up in the captivating instrument and transformed it into a different thing, which are the cuts through the silence. This year, even today, this continues to happen, i.e. these captivations make themselves felt in all ministries, contrary to what the Government and the PS have repeatedly said here. For example, 79 million euros were cut in health, in basic education, secondary education and school administration 42 million were cut in planning and infrastructure 258 million were cut in. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, then why would the government have chosen to cut these cuts through the silence rather than, with transparency and truth, foresee the beginning of this and announce them here in the plenary? It was pure and simply because I wanted to hide the truth, because I wanted, together with the convenience of the management partners, to make the speech that austerity had ended, there was no longer austerity and the State budget that had been presented was comprehensible, it could be fulfilled, that is, I wanted to make the speech that it was not necessary to control public expenditure and to continue to be done was obviously necessary to hide the truth and hide the courts. In fact, the captivating instrument, in the way it was used, was an instrument developed with one objective: to deceive the Portuguese and hide the truth! It is also very surprising what happens with management partners, in particular with the Left Block, which is now said to be extraordinarily surprised by the amount of captivating and even disagree. It is that, first of all, there is one thing that has to be very clear: these seizures have happened and were possible with the vote not only of the PS but also of the Left Block and PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u46	It was the budget decree!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u47	The Article of the budget providing for this margin of manoeuvre for the Government was approved with the votes of the PS, the BE, and the CFP. It was you who decided to pass a blank check to the government. During 2016 this was often mentioned — in fact, the CDS asked several questions about this matter — but you were all quiet, little ones. They were very vocal when it came to saying that the budget strategy was working and that austerity had ended but, after all, more than a year ago, they are very surprised! After all, they now realized that austerity hadn't ended and they were going to fool people! Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Left Block and PCP only didn't know about these cuts if they didn't want to know, if they didn't want to know, because, for each one to make his speech, it was much easier to pass blank checks to the government and look aside to what was happening in reality. For the PS it was very convenient to say one thing and do another, i.e. to say that austerity had ended at the same time that called into question the functioning of public services, and for the Block and for the PCP it was very convenient to pretend that they believed in it all, making it possible with the vote cuts through the silence and then looking at the side of each time in schools there was no money to fix a roof or a window. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the CDS has a project on the table to restore truth and to restore transparency, so that, purely and simply, the Portuguese can know what is actually happening and the favorable vote on this project will be the proof of the nine of those who, in fact, want to know and want to discuss with truth and of those who want to continue to make very nice speeches, looking to the side of what continues to happen in reality. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u48	For a political statement, Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One year ago, when the PCP defended the extraordinary increase of all pensions worth 10 €, it did not lack anyone who said there were no conditions. last month more than 2 million retirees saw their pension increase by 10 and 6 €. After all, it's possible! Although the 2017 State Budget standard does not correspond to the CFP proposal, the truth is that if it had not been the continued intervention of the CFP, the reformers would not have the extraordinary increase but an update that would, at most, reach the €2. At the beginning of the school year, more positive measures will now be implemented resulting from the proposal and contribution of the CFP, in particular the freeness of school textbooks for students of 1. the cycle, covering about 320 000 students, and we argue that progressively opens up all compulsory education until the end of the legislature ; the replacement of support for study visits to students with the School Social Action ; and the standardization of the school calendar of 1. the cycle and pre-school education. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are numerous concerns at the beginning of this school year regarding the placement of teachers, the hiring of specialist technicians, psychologists and operational assistants, or the high costs with education to be borne by families. in the process of binding and subsequent procedures for hiring teachers there are several shortcomings, errors and injustices that are urgently corrected. The lack of consideration of incomplete hours in internal mobility, for the first time in 11 years, without any previous information, and the change of priorities in teacher placement led to distortions with teachers with a higher degree than to achieve a greater approach to residence, making it clear that the single competition by professional graduation as proposed is the solution. To date, more than 26 000 teachers remain unemployed when their schools need to develop projects and activities to combat failure and drop out of school. We regret that the Government has decided to automatically renew contracts with technicians specialized in education only for those who have annual and full hours, leaving out the overwhelming majority of professionals who meet permanent needs in schools, knowing that the greatest art has only entered at the end of September, October or November. The renewal of the contract covers only 5 % of about 4000 specialist technicians, and there is no other solution if the new competitive procedure is not submitted when they have been in office for 10, 15 or 20 years at the same school. As for the hiring of over 200 psychologists for schools, nothing is known. Contrary to the spirit of the 2017 State Budget standard, the ratio for the allocation of the number of operational assistants per school was not revised, taking into account the specificities of each school, in time for completion at the beginning of this school year. The lack of operational assistants is such that neither the hiring of more than 250 prevented the publication of hundreds of notices for the hiring of part-time workers for three and a half hours or four hours to 3, 67 € / hour, with or without food allowance, contrary to the assumed objective of combating precariousness. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We know that it does not turn one day to the other to the immensity of problems the public school is facing, many of them aggravated as a result of the policy of right pursued by successive governments, in particular the former Government of the PSD / CDS. Steps have been taken that we value, such as the end of the school contract or the reduction of association contracts to situations where, in fact, the public network does not have the capacity to respond, but the reality of the public school requires wider and more consolidated steps. It is now important that, in the context of the promotion of public school, the Government : strengthens the financing and investment in education; assumes the commitment to bind teachers until the end of the legislature ; in the context of combating precariousness ; undertakes the recruitment of operational assistants and specialized technicians who satisfy permanent needs, as well as of all those who are needed; makes new and more significant advances in reducing the number of students per class, not restricting only the schools TEIP (Educational Areas of Priority Intervention ) ; takes measures to ensure access of all children between 3 and 5 years old to the public school education network; promotes a broad and participatory debate for a genuine curriculum reform; implements a democratic management model in schools; initiates the process leading to the end of mega-grouping; ensures an effective inclusive school by rejecting segregation options; and assumes its responsibility in requalification of the school. The CFP is available in carrying out this path of public school valorisation. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u50	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This summer, like others in the past, was marked by forest fires that took care of the country, this year in a more drastic way, much more. Forest fires consumed this summer an area of more than 213,000 hectares of our forest, the highest value of the last decade and, in this avalanche, the protected areas have not been saved. The black accounting shows us that more than 20 000 hectares of protected area was consumed by fire. The fires destroyed significant plots of the Rhodes Gates, of the natural parks of the Tua Valley, of Serra da Estrela and Alvão, of the National Park of Peneda-Gerês and of the protected landscapes of Albufeira do Azibo and Serra da Gardunha, a tragedy that involved the death of people who left families without housing, without their animals, without their crops and without their agricultural machinery. And if the tragedy did not gain greater dimensions it is due to the self-denied work and the way firefighters and other operatives faced the flames. It is therefore important here to express, on behalf of The Greens, our solidarity with all the families who have lost their souls and their goods and words of appreciation to all those who have fought this tragedy. Now it is interesting to look at the future, bearing in mind the mistakes of the past, because if it is true that this summer has also distinguished itself by a meteorological severity index — which should indeed call us to take the threat that the phenomenon of climate change poses to all of us more seriously — it is also true that the great problems of the forest stem from wrong political options which, over the decades, have been giving way to the interests of the large forest industry. But to these concessions it is still necessary to add the extinction of the Forest Guard Corps, the liberalisation of the eucalyptus, promoted by the previous government — the PSD Government / CDS —, the visible public investment in the forest and the deresponsibility of the State in the management of the forest, in the forest planning and in the fight against desertification and the abandonment of the rural world. There is therefore a need for a true forestry arrangement, the enhancement of agriculture, pastoral care and the occupation of rural space and the rebirth of the Forest Guard Corps. But what is important now, immediately, is to provide assistance to the populations, because the severity and size of forest fires is not compatible with the postponement of the implementation of measures to support the populations. If there are doubts about the donations generated in the wave of solidarity that has been created, these doubts must be completely dispelled, because the donations must reach the destination that has motivated them. On this matter, I would not say that it was a 'foot shot' but it seems to us that it was at least a'side shot'. In fact, if the PSD, in raising the issue of donations, wanted to reach the Government, it ended up reaching the private bodies that have not yet reported on the donations that are in their custody. And as the government seems to be all clear, it was another "strike next to" by the PSD, adding to others, such as suicides or disclosure of the number of fatal victims in the fires. They're only side shots! But this summer was also marked by the struggle of workers, particularly those of Autoeuropa and Altice, and the Greens here want to say that, in our view, the workers of Autoeuropa have reason to reject the compulsory work on Saturday, with a lesser pay than the one they have right. The rights are to be exercised and not only to remain on paper. They have reason for the workers of MEO and the PT Group to continue their struggle against the claims of the Altice to want to eliminate thousands of jobs and transfer workers to other companies, some of them, actually created or exclusively for that purpose. Finally, I wanted to refer to a good news this summer: the replacement of passenger transport on the East Line, the return of the train to Elvas, the reopening of the international rail link Elvas-Badajoz. In fact, after successive governments have spent years and years closing railway lines, this is the first national replacement of a railway service. We are on the right track, a path which is very much due to the draft resolution adopted by the Greens in the Assembly of the Republic, to the fight we have worked with the people and to the negotiations we have established with the Government in this regard. We are on the right track, even though the spare service has to be improved, with more time available to meet the needs of the people and make the service more attractive, but also with the replacement of rolling stock that can guarantee it, until today there is news that one of the locomotives has damaged, one week after the line has been restored, and this is in fact strengthening the need for the purchase of circulating material for the railway sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u52	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will move on to point 3 of our agenda, with the debate, decided at the Conference of Leaders, on the political and social situation in Venezuela and, in particular, on the situation of Portuguese and Luso-descendants living there. To open the debate, Mr Telmo Correia of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I want to say that we have had a few occasions here to talk about Venezuela's situation and discuss the differences that exist in this Chamber in the approach to Venezuela's situation. When the CDS, already this summer and already during the interruption of parliamentary work, proposed this debate, it was not our intention to hold just another debate on this matter. For us it is not necessary to qualify, once again, the Venezuelan regime, the dictatorship of Nicolas Maduro and what is happening in Venezuela.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u54	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u55	We saw, on television, in our home, the political police withdrawing from their homes, in the middle of the night, the main leaders of the opposition, even after the election to the Constituent Assembly, considered, moreover, fraudulent. Such a regime does not require more qualifications and numbers, as well as what has happened, reveal evidence. Since the beginning of the protests, 133 people have died, over 4000 people have been injured and thousands and thousands of detainees have been arrested. Moreover, there are 5000 people and many people arrested and prisoners were subjected to military trials. So, about the regime, everything is said. Some in Portugal will say: "How is it possible for anyone who shares Portuguese democracy to be a supporter of this, to defend this kind of regime? Oh, my God! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” But we already know that they defend, we know that they will continue to defend. The PCP that follows your path, that's not what we want to discuss now. We understand, even, the discomfort of those who for a long time have been great enthusiasts of the chavista and Bolivarian revolution, as she herself was entitled — poor Simon Bolivar, he hardly knew the fate to which his name would be associated! — and that they now demonstrate, obviously, and well, that they cannot follow this regime, this dictatorship and all that is happening. But what we are now concerned about is not that, not even the prosecution of the Attorney-General, nor the destitution of the National Assembly, legitimately elected. It's nothing like that! What focuses on us and what concerns us is, following recent events in Venezuela, the situation of the Portuguese community. That is the central debate and it is, in our view, the debate that this Parliament and the various political forces, particularly those who stand here at the border of democracy, cannot escape. That is today the essential question and there are several questions to be asked in this question. We obviously register the position of a democratic party, the Socialist Party. We are not against this position, but it seems to us that there can be no hesitation or timidity on the part of the Socialist Party and even the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u56	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u57	We share the concern, Mr Charles César, but we want to know, it is necessary for the Assembly of the Republic to know, if the situation gets worse, what we do not want, what will be the effectiveness of the so-called "contingency plan" that can lead — hopefully not! — the withdrawal of many Portuguese from Venezuela. It has been defended, in the words of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, a certain idea that an attack on the high figures of the Venezuelan regime—which today is a regime which, even today, has some ties and characteristics of qualification to be close to a drug trafficking regime—can be detrimental to the Portuguese community. Finally, we can even understand and accept this argument, but the question we are asking is this: what conditions does the Portuguese Government have to ensure - and we will have to do this debate — to those who are in Venezuela without food, medicines and in an extreme situation that has channels to provide some support to these Portuguese citizens or Luso-descendants? I also ask what means of support we have for those who return, both to the continent and to Madeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u58	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President. The four minutes available are sufficient for long interpellation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u59	I'm done now, Mr. President. Finally, we present a vote calling for the release of political prisoners, namely the release of Vasco da Costa, Dany Abreu and João Miguel Sousa, who are Portuguese and Luso-descendants, imprisoned in Venezuela and without due...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u60	When they were there, they didn't worry!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u61	...and you are, Mrs. Member, subject to torture. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u62	Mr José Cesario of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Venezuela is experiencing an extraordinarily complex and very delicate situation. The calm found in the streets of Caracas, the strange peace that has occurred there in recent days, is in clear contrast to the reality of the Venezuelan situation, since there is an unprecedented economic crisis there, with very serious problems affecting all sectors of Venezuelan society, starting with the weakest, because the productive sector is paralyzed. We sincerely hope that Venezuela will quickly overcome this difficult situation. We do not forget that Portugal is a friendly country of the Venezuelan people, a friendly country of Venezuela, and it is on behalf of this friendship that we do not hesitate to vehemently censure the Venezuelan Government for having recently established a new Constituent Assembly, which calls into question the normal rule of law in that country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u64	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u65	We also regret the indiscriminate, free and disproportionate violence that has occurred on the streets of Caracas. We regret the violence exercised by the authorities, as well as all that is exercised by any group, organized or not, in Venezuelan society. We hope that this situation will soon be overcome in the name of democracy. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u66	I repeat that it is essential for us to defend democracy and the rule of law. The Portuguese Government here has a very important opportunity, a challenge for itself and all of us, which is to be able to serve as an interlocutor, an element of link in this dialogue between power and opposition, which we hope will be as fruitful as possible. We really hope that the spirit of Pope Francis, who is currently in Colombia, can also enter Venezuela and also reach and touch all Venezuelans. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u67	But in addition to the very serious political situation and the very serious economic situation, there is a tremendous social situation, with a lack of essential goods, lack of food and lack of medicines; services generally do not work and there is an extremely high insecurity situation, with a rate of crime of the highest in the world. in the middle of this, the Portuguese suffer. It suffers the whole community and we know of the existence of very serious cases, cases for which it is difficult to find solutions. But here too there is a challenge for all of us and for the Portuguese Government, first of all. With regard to those in Venezuela, we know that today the Network of Portuguese Associations is semi-paralyzed and it is very difficult to develop policies in conjunction with these associations. Much of its most active elements came out of Venezuela, is in other countries, particularly Portugal. Therefore, there must be adequate structures, which meet those who need the most in this country and, at the moment, they do not have the ease of finding such interlocutors. There is also a third challenge for those who left Venezuela, particularly those who are in Portugal. We know that the Regional Government of Madeira has found, and well, solutions in the field that have responded to the essential needs, but we also know that, especially in the north of the continent, in particular in districts such as Aveiro, Porto and Coimbra, there are many Venezuelans who are now experiencing immense difficulties and it is essential that Portuguese social security and the structures linked to the Portuguese Government find practical solutions that can make life easier for these people.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u68	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u69	That is not the case, of course, we will be forgetting our compatriots who deserve the greatest consideration and who cannot be forgotten at any time. I end by expressing a very large belief in the future of Venezuela: Venezuela is a great country, Venezuela is a friendly country of Portugal, in Venezuela there is a large Portuguese community and we only want it to quickly overcome its problems. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u70	Mr Jorge Costa of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Venezuela's so-called 'Constituent National Assembly' decided on 18 August to call on it the powers of Parliament and — I quote — "to take the powers to legislate on matters related to the preservation of peace, security, sovereignty, the economic and financial system, the purposes of the State and the prominence of Venezuelan rights" and the ability to dictate parliamentary acts without the form of law linked to these matters was still given. These decisions, as has been customary, were made by unanimity and acclamation, but even if they were true the more than doubtful data provided by Venezuela's National Electoral Council on electoral participation in the origin of this Constitution, it would not represent most Venezuelans. The Constituent Assembly approved and gave itself a two-year term to complete its work, which consists of replacing the Bolivarian Constitution of Hugo Chávez — the same Hugo Chávez which took only six months to write it and approve.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u72	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u73	Well, on the one hand, it is not surprising to find among those who have always rejected the government of Hugo Chávez, always criticized the amendments in Venezuela, always attacked the Venezuelan Constitution their biggest defenders of the last hour. This is what the CDS does today: it invokes the Constitution, but it is the Constitution that Hugo Chávez approved, the Bolivarian Constitution of Venezuela, which today is under the threat of Nicolás Maduro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u74	This is the result of Chávez!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u75	It is also extraordinary to hear the names of Venezuelan political prisoners coming from the same bench that, when it comes to political prisoners in Angola, when it comes to the Angolan dictatorship, remember their own history, the criticisms made to Angola, the Angolan regime, the MPLA government in the past. After all, who changed position was the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u76	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u77	You're so wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u78	The former partner of UNITA in Portugal has become one of the biggest allies of the Angolan regime in Portugal and one of those who have compacted the silence on political persecutions in Angola.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u79	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u80	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u81	But it is not only the Venezuelan Constitution that is under threat at the moment, it is also the social achievements that have advanced during the government of Hugo Chávez, it is also the advances in the distribution of wealth that have happened in Venezuela over the years. This is the fruit of a truly catastrophic recession that fell on Venezuela from 2014, with 3, 9 % in 2014, 5, 7 % in 2015 and 18 % in 2016. This contraction, compared with the United States of Great Depression, goes further, for example, is an economic and financial crisis of great magnitude which is the result of a policy that not only kept oil as the only source of economic development but also decided to reduce imports to cope with external debt payments, leading to a reduction in imports of goods and services of 75 % per capita, in real terms between 2012 and 2016. These results led to the distributive policies of Hugo Chávez's time being cancelled in very few years.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u82	Chávez was very good, Maduro is very bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u83	Where there was relatively good quality food at subsidized prices, they ceased to exist, where there was a national primary medical care system—I know that the CDS does not value such care and services— these services were eliminated within the framework of these restrictive policies decided by the Government of Nicolás Maduro. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] Today, in Venezuela, one of the most advanced countries in terms of human development, we have the return of hunger and the return of mass popular challenge and great mobilizations. for our part, we do not confuse or merge the popular mobilizations in Venezuela with the nature of the right opposition forces. We know that at the origin of the MUD are forces of couppist essence that participated directly in anti-institutional activities, in activities against the advances that occurred in Venezuela in previous years. They are the same ones who wanted to keep oil revenues in the hands of the oligarchy, the same ones that are in contact with the United States Government to bring back to the Venezuelan Government the policies that maintain the true social apartheid that, certainly, no one misses in Venezuela.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u84	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u85	What today the Left Block defends is that the solutions that are to be found in Venezuela essentially respect popular will, respect the principle of democracy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u86	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u87	... and what we believe is that the Portuguese Government, in the face of the crisis, must pay close attention to developments in the situation on the ground, maintain the capacity for dialogue with the various entities in Venezuela and prepare support measures adapted to the circumstances and developments of the situation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u88	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: 20 years ago, Venezuela was not news in the major media. It was known that the country was governed by a dominant oligarchy that enjoyed the incomes of Venezuelan oil in its favor, dominated the country, appropriated its wealth and kept the people in misery.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u90	It's not like that now! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u91	Moreover, Venezuela was known to be one of the countries with the greatest social inequalities, with a population layer in poverty. In 1999 a popular revolt against the hunger and misery of the people was suppressed by the government of Carlos Andrés Pérez, who murdered more than 3,000 Venezuelans without this had been news for the world outside. It was not news because Venezuela at that time had a certificate of democratity passed by the United States and the European Union and therefore these 3,000 murders did not exist in any part of the world. Venezuela began to change in the late 20th century, with the election of Hugo Chávez Frías as President of the Republic, with the popular election of Hugo Chávez.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u92	Come on, comrade! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u93	Absolutely! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u94	From there, the so-called Bolivarian Revolution of Venezuela, the people of Venezuela have experienced unprecedented social progress in reducing inequalities, precisely with the use of Venezuela's oil incomes for the well-being of the people, to improve the education system and the health system, to improve the labour rights of the Venezuelan people, so that the Venezuelan people had for the first time social rights, which they began to enjoy. It is clear that the hierarchy that has been removed from power in 1999 never complied with this, and it is this oligarchy that today dominates much of the social communication in Venezuela and that it has the strongest support from outside, particularly the United States and the European Union, which are committed to reversing the Bolivarian revolution and withdrawing President Nicolás Maduro from power. This is indeed unquestionable. Furthermore, this opposition, which attempted a military coup "to Chilean" to remove Hugo Chávez shortly after his democratic election, never hesitated to launch chaos and sow violence in the streets, to proceed to the landing and economic sabotage in order to harm the living conditions of Venezuelans. It is astonishing that this opposition has accused Hugo Chávez and accused Nicolas Maduro of being dictators. in Venezuela, this strange dictatorship, in 18 years there were 21 electoral acts— 21 electoral acts. There were electoral acts in which the Venezuelan Government obtained the majority and there were others in which it lost, lost referendums and respected the result. It may seem strange in the European Union to respect the results of the referendums, it may also appear in the United States that the most voted vote is due to elections, but what is true is that there have been 21 electoral acts whose results have always been respected. following the extremely serious economic crisis that hit Venezuela, to a large extent due to the drastic drop in oil prices, which in fact created an extremely difficult situation for the Venezuelan people, the opposition, which obtained the majority in Parliament, wanted to use this majority precisely to overthrow the President, whose democratic legitimacy is unquestionable because the President of the Republic of Venezuela, as you know, does not depend on parliamentary confidence. This Parliament, which has been considered in disobedience, which has been self-proclaimed in disobedience, has been sponsoring all kinds of violence and chaos on the streets by lynching, killings, including seeking to blame the authorities for criminal acts that have been committed precisely by those elements of the opposition and not hesitated to qualify as political prisoners who are authentically criminals of common crime. It was important that this difference was effectively established.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u95	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u96	I shall conclude, Mr President, but I would like to say, with regard to the Constituent Assembly, that the election has indeed been convened, the Assembly has been elected and has the powers precisely established in the Constitution of Venezuela.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u97	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u98	Mr President, I would also like to say, on how to defend the interests of the Portuguese community in Venezuela, that the question is this: whether it defends the interests of the Portuguese community by sowing chaos, violence and instability or whether it defends the interests of the Portuguese community by promoting dialogue and creating the conditions for Venezuela to develop itself sovereignly and improve the living conditions of the people. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u99	Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u100	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first words are for us, on behalf of The Greens, to express our support and solidarity to the Portuguese community residing in Venezuela, because in fact neither the Portuguese community living in Venezuela nor the Venezuelans themselves have responsibilities or blame for what is really at stake in the global geostrategic plan. As Prof. Boaventura de Sousa Santos says in an excellent article published recently about the situation in Venezuela — and I quote — « what is at stake are the world's largest oil reserves in Venezuela. For the US, it is crucial for its global domain to maintain control of the world's oil reserves. Any country, however democratic, which has this strategic resource and does not make it accessible to oil multinationals, in the majority of the United States, is looking at imperial intervention. » And now I say: these interventions usually start with interference and go as far as necessary. In view of this framework, however, the Greens believe that the ways of peace must pass through peaceful solutions, through international dialogue, but a dialogue that is responsible, and responsible dialogue requires first and foremost respect for the equality and sovereignty of States and the rights of peoples. For this reason, The Greens consider that the best way to defend the interests of the Portuguese community in Venezuela is to demand this responsible dialogue and condemn the external interferences on the Republic of Venezuela, which are not yet. It is about what is happening in Venezuela, about the situation in Venezuela, is installed a great confusion. We have heard Mr Telmo Correia call Nicolás Maduro dictator but then criticise him for convening elections, and this is not understood! [[CDS-PP protests.]] Moreover, confusion extends to the votes that have been put forward. For example, the CDS vote on the situation in Venezuela says... and now it's over.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u101	It didn't happen to him. It's over! [[PSD Members' laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u102	I'm going to the CDS vote. The PSD vote calls on the Government of Venezuela to resume the dialogue with the opposition, as if it were the Government of Venezuela to refuse to dialogue, when we all know that it is the opposition that does not want to dialogue with the Government. The CDS-PP vote — finally came, it came late, but it came — refers to the convening of elections to the Constituent Assembly as if it were an anti-institutional thing, as if it were not foreseen in the Constitution of Venezuela. It follows that the convening of these elections and the election of the Constitution itself took place within the constitutional framework of the Republic of Venezuela. Therefore, let us hope that this debate also serves to dispel some confusion or to clarify this confusion that is installed around what is happening in Venezuela.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u103	Mrs Isabel Santos of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u104	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The sharpness of the situation in Venezuela has motivated a number of debates in this Parliament, in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and even today in plenary. I take a few words from Mr Telmo Correia to say that, as we have just seen, we all disagree on the causes of the conflict in Venezuela and probably even on some of the points of its solution. But there is something in which we all surely converge: in the concern about the humanitarian situation that is currently living in Venezuela, with the level of suffering to which the Venezuelan people are being subjected and with the level of suffering to which the Portuguese community based in Venezuela and the Luso-descendants are being subjected. And this must be the big starting point for this debate. A number of questions have also been raised here by Mr Telmo Correia, particularly with regard to the position of the Socialist Party and the Portuguese Government. The position of the Socialist Party has been clear and coherent; it is a responsible position for defending and protecting the interests of the Portuguese community and for defending a transition situation to a peaceful and democratic situation in Venezuela. This is your position without tapestry, no desistence. Mr President, because you have also raised questions about the contingency plan, I would like to reply to you that there exists and has already been presented to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and, on several occasions, it has been debated there, either in the presence of the Minister for Foreign Affairs or in the presence of the Secretary of State of the Portuguese Communities. It has certainly been discussed in a responsible way, because, as you well understand, when there are issues related to safety and emergency, there is a responsible way of dealing with these matters and sometimes does not allow us to talk too much. The matter is dealt with, the plan exists, and the Government will be ready at any time to respond to the Portuguese in Venezuela and the Luso-descendants. I would also like to remind you here of the plan that is currently in place — with the strengthening of consular services and diplomatic services in Venezuela — to those who remain in Venezuela, but also the work being done with all the Portuguese and Luso-descendants who have decided to return to Portugal or emigrate to other countries, particularly Spanish-speaking countries. This work is being done, including in coordination with the Regional Government of Madeira, because, as we know, most of these Portuguese have their roots in Madeira, where they tend to return. This work is being done in Madeira, but also throughout the country, with social security prepared for a specific response to these problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u105	We just want to know how, when and numbers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u106	If you give me 20 or 30 minutes to debate, I will be happy to do so with Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u107	There will be more debates!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u108	So, honourable Member, the work is being done, the work is in the field and it is not worth getting into dilation maneuvers and trying to get rid of what is fundamental. at this time, the Socialist Party urges the Government to continue this work in support of the Portuguese community, whether it is in Venezuela, whether it is returning to our country, and to continue the work of coordination with the European Union, towards the opening of channels of dialogue with the Venezuelan authorities leading to dialogue between those authorities and opposition, so that a transition is made to respect for the democratic regime, respect for human rights, political freedom, expression and assembly and full respect for the rule of law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u109	What about political prisoners? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u110	We have reached the end of the third item on the agenda. Before we come to the last item on the vote, I would like to introduce the following question: Ladies and gentlemen, today exactly one year ago we were left by President Antonio Barbosa de Melo, an eminent jurist, a great parliamentarian, a President of the Assembly of the Republic that the Members will never forget, and I am one of them. I have had the privilege of taking some of my first parliamentary steps under your inspiring presidency. The longing is great but its memory lasts and will endure. To mention it a year later, I would like to make a public note, in this Standing Committee, of what I transmitted yesterday at the Conference of Leaders: I took the initiative to create a parliamentary study prize with its name, which, every two years, recognizes an original work in the areas of Political Science and Constitutional Law, scientific domains that Barbosa de Melo knew so well. from their knowledge have benefited many generations of jurists and polytologists. I think it makes every sense to name this initiative, which aims to promote research in these scientific fields and, in particular, on Parliament and parliamentaryism in Portugal, now that we have walked far and wide for the two hundred years of Portuguese constitutionalism. I also gave guidance to the services of the Assembly of the Republic in order to be given the administrative steps necessary for the appearance of a bust that eternalizes it in this Palace of Saint Benedict, a place where it was happy and where it left so much admiration and longing. This was the communication I would like to make before we proceed to the vote. [[General applause.]] On the vote, it was consensualized among the parliamentary groups which will only be read the votes of regret, and only the subsequent votes will be voted in a way that is unbundled or not. Let's start with vote No 369 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Despite the death of Alberto Manuel Avelino ( PS ). I would like to ask Secretary Idália to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u111	Mr President, the vote of regret is as follows: « He died last August 29th Alberto Manuel Avelino. Born on November 26, 1940, and a remarkable figure of the political and civic life of his city council, Torres Vedras, Alberto Manuel Avelino stood out at various moments in his life because of his dedication to the public cause and his role in the construction of democratic institutions, both at the national level and at the local level. Elected Member of the Constituent Assembly in the lists of the Socialist Party, in 1975, and since 2016, holder of the quality of Honourable Member, Alberto Manuel Avelino soon dedicated himself to the implementation of the institutions whose profile helped to draw in the 1976 Constitution, by becoming the first President of the Municipal Chamber of Torres Vedras democratically elected, which would perform functions from 1976 to 1983. on that date, he took up his term as a member of the Assembly of the Republic, and was subsequently re-elected in 1985, 1987 and 1991, leaving office in 1995. in that same year, it would take up functions as Civil Governor of the Lisbon District, in which it would continue to operate until 2002. Despite the intense exercise of functions at the national level, Alberto Avelino has always maintained a permanent presence in the autarchic life of his council, presiding at the Municipal Assembly of Torres Vedras between 1986 and 1993 and, again, since 2002, becoming an undeniable reference in the Torriese society and a prominent figure of local democracy. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in Permanent Commission, expresses condolences to the municipality of Torres Vedras, the family, friends and everyone who knew and appreciated Alberto Manuel Avelino, honoring and greeting his civic journey and his dedication to the public cause and to the values of democracy and local power, honoring his land and his country. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u112	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 373 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — I regret the death of Francisco Antunes da Silva ( PSD ), to whom I associate, as indeed, with regard to the first. In fact, they are present in the family galleries of Francisco Antunes da Silva. Mrs Emília Santos has the floor to read the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u113	Mr President, the vote of regret is as follows: « Francisco Antunes da Silva died last September 1st, victim of prolonged disease. Born in Cernache do Bonjardim, in 1948, he was always a man of causes who devoted himself to serving society. Advocate, he was still an active participant in civic life, having been founder of the Cernache Volunteer Firefighters of Bonjardim. He was also president of the Social Center S. Nuno de Santa Maria and of the Association of Hunters of the Pinhal Zone. In August 1974, he joined the Social Democratic Party, where he held several positions, having been elected PSD Secretary General at the XI Congress, which took place in Braga in 1984. Side by side with Carlos Alberto Mota Pinto, president of the party elected at the time, as well as names like Rui Machete and Amendio de Azevedo, he fought for the fight for structural reforms for the country at the time of the Central Block. He was also a Member of the Assembly of the Republic between the III and the VII legislatures. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in Standing Committee on 7 September 2017, expresses its regret at the death of Francisco Antunes da Silva and sends the most heartfelt condolences to his family, the Social Democratic Party and all those who have become accustomed to recognizing and admiring his personality. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u114	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 376 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Despite the death of the helicopter pilot injured in Castro Daire ( President of RA and PS ). I call on Secretary Idália Serrão to read out.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u115	Mr President, the vote of regret is as follows: « last August 20th, the pilot of a helicopter who was at the service of the Everjets company died in the fight against the flames in Cabril, town of Castro Daire, Viseu district. The helicopter hit high-voltage cables and the ground crash set the device on fire, which was fatal for this 51-year-old pilot. in its example of dedication and bravery, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in Permanent Commission, pays tribute to all men and women involved in the fight against flames and the protection of populations. To the victim's family and friends, the Assembly of the Republic still expresses its deepest sympathy and deepest condolences. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u116	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall then vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceed with vote No 377 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — In spite of the victims of the aircraft emergency landing in Costa da Caparica ( President of RA ). I would like to ask Mrs Emília Santos to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u117	Mr President, the vote of regret is as follows: « A 56-year-old man and an 8-year-old child were the fatal victims of the fall of an emergency landing of a plane, last August 2nd, at São João Beach, on the Costa da Caparica. Meeting in the Standing Committee, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its deep regret at the success and transmits its most sincere solidarity to the families and friends of the victims. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u118	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We continue with vote No 378 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — In spite of the victims of the fall of a tree in Funchal ( President of RA and PS ). Mrs Idália Serrão has the floor to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u119	Mr President, the vote of regret is as follows: « The fall of a hundred-year-old oak in the Largo da Fonte, in the Freguesia do Monte, belonging to the Funchal municipality, made 13 fatal victims and caused injuries to 49 more people. This terrible accident coincided with the Arraial do Monte, one of Madeira's main festivities. Meeting in the Permanent Committee, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its regret at the success and transmits its most sincere solidarity to the families and friends of the victims. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u120	We shall proceed to the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 380/ XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemning and weighing terrorist attacks in the Catalan region, Spain ( RA President and PS ). Mrs. Idália Serrão has the floor to read.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u121	Mr President, the vote is as follows: « The Spanish region of Catalonia was for two days the target of two attacks, one first in Barcelona and another, in the morning of the next day, in Cambrils. These attacks, once again claimed by the terrorist group Daesh, using the indiscriminate massacre of innocent people, caused 14 dead and 135 wounded. Terrorism does not know borders, and these attacks occurred in our neighbouring country, more precisely in the Ramblas, Barcelona, avenue of freedom and intercultural dialogue. Two Portuguese, grandmother and net, are among the fatal victims. Meeting in the Standing Committee, the Assembly of the Republic reaffirms the condemnation of terrorism and Portugal's commitment to combat this threat, while expressing its sorrow to the families and friends of the victims. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u122	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the votes that we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We now turn to vote No 370 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Appeal and condemnation — Appeal to peace and dialogue on the Korean peninsula and condemnation of North Korea by carrying out successive tests with nuclear weapons and ballistic missiles ( PSD ). At the request of the CFP, we shall vote items 1 and 2 separately. We therefore vote on point 1. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP and PAN, votes against the CFP and the Greens' abstention.]] We shall vote on point 2. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[The vote is as follows: For a few months now, the world has been witnessing with great concern the increase in conflict around the Korean peninsula, strongly motivated by the escalation of arms triggered by North Korea, by carrying out successive tests with missiles of significant scope and with nuclear weapons. For all this, the United Nations has adopted a number of resolutions calling for dialogue between the main parties concerned not to be called into question the main strategic balances that have been in place there. However, the truth is that the situation has worsened very clearly, increasing the provocations of North Korea to neighbouring countries, which translate the most absolute disregard for the appeals of the international community. Thus, under the applicable legal and regulatory provisions, the Assembly of the Republic decides: 1 — To strongly condemn the provocative attitudes of North Korea by carrying out successive tests with nuclear weapons which call into question the security of neighbouring countries and disregard the recommendations of the United Nations on the Korean peninsula; 2 — To call upon the entire international community and, in particular, the main world powers which are developing all possible diplomatic efforts in order to promote the indispensable dialogue promoting the peaceful resolution of this problem.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u123	We shall then vote on vote No 374 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Concerned about the situation on the Korean peninsula ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the PCP and the Greens, and abstentions against the PS and the NAP.]] [[It was as follows: tension is increasing on the Korean peninsula, with the recurrent military maneuvers, installation of the THAAD missile system in the Republic of Korea and threats by the US and recent testing of ballistic and nuclear missiles by the Democratic People's Republic of Korea. A situation arising from the Korean War, the non-signation of a peace agreement and the unilateral division of this country imposed by the US military intervention, which has maintained a strong military presence — including nuclear weapons — in this region for more than six decades. The escalation of tension on the Korean peninsula is contrary to the interests and aspirations of the Korean people to the peaceful reunification of their homeland, and is inserted in the dangerous military escalation that is underway in the Asia-Pacific region. The resolution of the conflict on the Korean peninsula requires that steps be taken to defuse the tension, respect for the sovereignty of States, non-interference in their internal affairs, non-use of threat and force to resolve disputes, peaceful resolution of conflicts. Whereas the tension on the Korean peninsula constitutes a serious threat to peace and recalling that the Non-Proliferation Treaty calls for the simultaneous dismantling of the nuclear arsenals in the world, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in the Permanent Commission: Expresses its deep concern at the dangerous escalation of tension in the Korean and Asia-Pacific peninsula and stresses that the only solution goes through dialogue, negotiation, political solution; Reaffirms the urgency of the abolition of nuclear weapons simultaneously and in a controlled manner and its non-proliferation and commitment by the Portuguese State in order to achieve this objective, in line with the principle of general disarmament established in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic; Holds the development of initiatives that, in respect of the principles of the United Nations Charter, aim at demilitarizing the Korean peninsula and its peaceful reunification, in line with the principle of the general disarmament and contributing to peace in this region.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u124	We shall vote on vote No 381 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemnation by the North Korean military actions ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, The Greens and the NAP, votes against the CFP and the PS abstention.]] [[It is as follows: North Korea has intensified its military actions in recent weeks, including the test of a nuclear weapon and the launch of a ballistic missile towards the Japanese sea. These North Korea actions compete for increasing regional instability and tension and represent the strengthening of an absolutely condemnable arms race. The international situation has become more unstable, with the United States of America responding to the provocations of North Korea with new provocations and military threats. The situation has seriously escalated in the recent period. The belligerent path has in the recent crisis the last episode, but there are more cause for concern on a global scale. In the first half of this year, it had already been announced by the United States of America and Russia that international agreements for nuclear disarmament would be opened up. Moreover, at a time when it is still implementing the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, the intention to renew and even create new nuclear weapons is unacceptable and cannot go without criticism, whatever the State in question. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in the Standing Committee, condemns the nuclear test and the launch of a ballistic missile carried out by North Korea, rejects the international arms race, affirms the need for a global commitment to nuclear disarmament and calls for the implementation of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u125	We turn to the vote on vote No 385/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Condemnation by tests of ballistic and thermonuclear missiles carried out by North Korea ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted, with votes against BE and the PCP and with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP, Os Verdes and PAN.]] [[Once again, the Democratic Republic of Korea has put the world in a growing crisis of nuclear risk by testing, including the space of the Republic of Korea and Japan, ballistic missiles, possibly intercontinental, as well as having carried out a detonation of thermonuclear engineering, the most powerful and dangerous so far. The conflict of the Korean peninsula, which concerns the international community, has now reached a level leading to a strong global condemnation of the actions carried out by the Pyonyang regime, irresponsibly endangering the lives of millions of people, their own population, friendly countries such as the Republic of Korea and Japan and global security. Meeting in the Permanent Commission, the Assembly of the Republic condemns the testing of ballistic missiles, as well as the thermonuclear tests carried out by the Democratic Republic of Korea, in a challenge of the Security Council of the United Nations and the international community, and calls for strong international sanctions against military actions that endanger security and peace.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u126	We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 371/ XIII ( 2 ). a ) — Of solidarity — Reaffirms solidarity with the Portuguese community in Venezuela and calls for dialogue among Venezuelans ( PSD ). At the request of the CFP, we shall first vote on points 1 and 2 and then on point 3. Let us then begin by voting together on points 1 and 2. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on point 3. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP and PAN and votes against the CFP and the Greens.]] [[The vote is as follows: Over the past few months there has been a growing concern about the increase in the political, economic and social crisis in Venezuela, with very strong effects on the living conditions of the weaker sectors of its society. The attempts to dialogue between the Venezuelan Government and the various sectors of the opposition have been unsuccessful, having as corollary the holding of elections for a new Constituent Assembly, whose legitimacy is not accepted by the generality of the international community and by large sectors of Venezuelan society. For all this, there is a significant worsening of the life of the vast majority of Venezuelans, lacking essential goods, increasing insecurity and seriously degrading the level of health and protection services to the elderly and the most deprived. The Portuguese community has also been strongly affected by this situation and has witnessed a great increase in those who have decided to focus on Portugal and other countries of America and Europe. For all this, the Assembly of the Republic decides: 1 — To reaffirm its total solidarity with the Portuguese community in Venezuela for the serious difficulties that continue to be encountered in the context of the very serious crisis there; 2 — To recommend to the Portuguese Government the increase in the effectiveness of the support mechanisms for the Portuguese who remain in Venezuela and those who have been established in Portugal and who know that they are struggling with severe difficulties of integration and adaptation; 3 — To call on the Government of Venezuela to resume the dialogue with the opposition, eliminating all the factors that condition it and creating conditions for a great reconciliation between all Venezuelans.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u127	The vote on vote No 372 / XIII ( 2 ) followed. ( a ) — Condemnation and solidarity with the situation of prisoners of conscience in Venezuela ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, the PS, BE and CDS-PP votes against the CFP and the Greens and the NAP were voted in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP.]] [[Since April, the political crisis in Venezuela has already caused the death of more than 100 people and more than 1400 people have been injured, according to official data. Throughout this year, the economic and social crisis has been exacerbating the protests that have responded to a escalation of the political confrontation, with the election of a Constituent Assembly that has taken all legislative powers for itself, particularly those of the elected National Assembly. The exercise of the judiciary was also conditional, including threats and confrontations that led to the exile of the Attorney General and elements of the Public Prosecutor's Office. According to the director of Amnesty International for the Americas, " Venezuela is experiencing one of the worst human rights crises in its recent history", which adds the detention of thousands of citizens for political reasons to the wounded and the victims of death. Among these, the prison of Portuguese citizens Vasco Costa and Dany Abreu and the Luso-descendant Juan Miguel Sousa. Meeting in the Standing Committee, the Assembly of the Republic condemns arrests for reasons of conscience, expresses solidarity and support for the Portuguese community in Venezuela, in particular with political prisoners and their families, and calls for the release of prisoners of conscience.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u128	Let us vote no 375 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemning threats and actions of interference and destabilization against the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela and solidarity with the people of Venezuela ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the CFP and the Greens and abstains from BE and the NAP.]] [[It was as follows: For several years the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela has been a victim of interference and internal and internal destabilization actions aimed at overthrowing the Bolivarian Government and interrupting the democratic and progressive process of sovereign affirmation and cooperation that has been played by this Latin American country. The acts of vandalism, systematic violence and terrorism committed by sectors of the opposition that refuse to act within the framework of the Constitution and the law, together with the intolerable threat of military aggression by the President of the United States, Donald Trump, and the unacceptable refusal by the US and some countries, as well as the European Union, to recognize the legitimacy of the National Constituent Assembly elected by the Venezuelan people in accordance with the Constitution. The economic and financial boycott, including the landfill and speculation of first-necessary goods prices, included in the coup-supply operation against Venezuela and its people, has been promoted by the sectors which in the United States and Venezuela have never accepted the political, economic, social and cultural progress achieved by this country in the last 18 years and the will of the Venezuelan people to break with a past of neoliberal policies responsible for the repression and impoverishment of millions of Venezuelans and to build a future based on economic and social development that favours the improvement of the living conditions of the people and not the submission to the interests of the United States and an oligarchy that intends to re-establish itself from the country. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in Standing Committee: 1 — Repudiates the threats of military aggression and actions of interference and destabilization against the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela; 2 — Reaffirms the right of the Venezuelan people to decide sovereignly on their way of development free from any external and peaceful interference and pressure; 3 — Demonstrates support and solidarity to the Portuguese community in Venezuela, which, like the Venezuelan people, is the victim of the campaign of interference and destabilization.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u129	We turn to the vote on vote No 384/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — In solidarity with the peaceful resolution of tensions in Venezuela ( PS ). At the request of the CFP, we will vote separately on points 1 and 2. We shall then vote on point 1. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP and PAN and votes against the CFP and the Greens.]] Let us now vote on point 2. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[The vote is as follows: Friendship relations between Portugal and Venezuela are old and sit in strong ties of shared common interests, with the development of cultural and economic partnerships over the years, strengthened systematically by the presence of an important and dynamic Portuguese community living in that country. Over the past few months, the international community has been monitoring the evolution of the political and social situation in Venezuela with concern, considering in particular the negative impact on populations caused by instability and the deterioration of the economic situation. The security and well-being of the Portuguese community there are, of course, an added concern of the Assembly of the Republic, and the creation of conditions for the peaceful resolution of all the conflicts that the country is going through is essential. At the same time, it is important to continue to ensure a framework of measures to support all Portuguese citizens who seek consular support from national authorities, in conjunction with the community's representative associations, as well as those who choose to return to their national territory. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in the Standing Committee: 1 — Reiterates its hopes for a peaceful resolution of the political and social tensions in Venezuela through dialogue between all the organs of the State, in particular the Government, the National Assembly and the forces of opposition and civil society, in a framework of mutual respect, to safeguard the constitutional order and to guarantee the fundamental rights of all citizens, with a view to ensuring the release of detainees for political reasons and building an agreement on the electoral timetable; 2 — Stresses their total solidarity with the Portuguese community based in Venezuela, at the moment of a moment of serious political, social and economic tensions, emphasizing the importance of the various difficulties developed by the Portuguese Government for their follow-up in Venezuela or on their return to Portugal, as well as the measures developed by the self-government bodies of the Autonomous Region of Madeira in support for those who have chosen to return to the national territory.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u130	We shall then vote on vote No 379 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Greetings for the recent victories of Portuguese sportsmen ( RA President ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[It is as follows: August was a month of gold for Portuguese sport. In the world of London athletics, Inês Henriques won the gold medal in the 50 km march, with the 4:05.56 hour mark, a new world record. In the same competition, Nelson Évora won the bronze medal of the triple jump, becoming the second athlete with more medals in discipline in world championships: four. Meanwhile, in Radice, in the Czech Republic, Fernando Pimenta was a champion of the world of K1,000 meters, winning the test of the world canoeing. Equally noteworthy is the participation of the Portuguese selection of field parahoea, which has been horrified by European champions, by defeating Italy at the end, played in Amsterdam, in the Netherlands. Meeting in the Standing Committee, the Assembly of the Republic welcomes the medalists and hockeyists and all those who, with their participation, honour national colors and serve as inspiration for the new generations.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u131	We shall proceed to the vote on vote No 382 / XIII ( 2 ). a ) — Condemnation for the violation of the human rights of the indigenous peoples Guarani-Kaiowá, in the Brazilian state of Mato Grosso do Sul ( PAN ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] [[It was as follows: The Brazilian National Congress intends to drastically restrict indigenous territories with the final approval of the Proposal for Constitutional Amendment 215, which will reduce the 13% of current area to 2.6%, causing more deforestation, criminalization and murder of indigenous people. Apart from international rights, the various forms of violence against indigenous communities in Mato Grosso do Sul are highlighted by killings, suicides, slave labor and misappropriation of lands previously demarcated and officially recognized by the rights enshrined in the Brazilian Constitution. Betting in the agricultural industry, which concentrated massively on the old demarcated land, with policies that surround the extractivist and productive economy, the Brazilian Government promotes and militarily supports the landowners, condemning thousands of people to a universal deprivation of the right to preservation, survival and continuity of a community. Ten years after the adoption of the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples and with the convenience of the Brazilian State, violence not only persisted as it intensified, in a worrying deterioration of the protection of indigenous peoples, more precisely the Guarani and Kaiowá Indians. These facts have recently been confirmed by a delegation of international observers, of which Portugal was also a part. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in Permanent Commission, condemns the violation of the human rights of the indigenous peoples Guarani-Kaiowá by the Brazilian state in Mato Grosso do Sul, breaking national silence in this matter and marking its position before the international community, which, with its inaction, continues to allow a discriminatory and attacking policy to be perpetuated that day after day a people who existed long before their territory was “discovered” by third parties.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u132	We shall vote on vote No 383 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemning the extinction of the National Reserve of Copper and Associates in Amazonia ( PAN ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] [[It was as follows: In August 2017, a decree by the Brazilian Government expired in Amazonia an important environmental reserve with 46 450 km2, approximately half of the area of Portugal, with the aim of opening it to mining and mining by national and foreign economic groups. The National Reserve of Copper and Associates (RENCA), an area rich in gold, copper, iron, manganese, among others, had been created in 1984 to protect it from external agents who, from the very first moment of their existence, insist on exchanging the safeguarding of the world's ecosystems for their own economic interests. This environmental attack, launched by decree, endangers global ecological balance, Brazilian biodiversity and indigenous peoples living there, extending, along the way of the limit, the act of closing their eyes to the harmful impact of extractive and productive policies that exploit the subsoil without criterion, promote the use of non-renewable and non-clean energies and encourage intensive livestock and toxic and chemical agricultural production, in a continuous subjugation of the common good to economic interests. The decision of the Brazilian Government, temporarily suspended by the judiciary but still without a defined point of return, reflects and is reflected in an ignored or even absent vision about environmental policies, this vision which, in fact, also extends to the whole world. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in Permanent Commission, expresses its condemnation of the extinction of the National Reserve of Copper and Associates in Amazonia, calling on the Brazilian Government to return permanently to its decision.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u133	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u134	To what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u135	Mr President, it is to be announced that the PSD will present a statement of vote on votes Nos 382 and 383 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a) we have just voted.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-09-07.u136	Be registered. Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1044 / XII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Malta ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Finally, we shall vote on draft resolution No 1045 / XII ( 2. ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Barcelona ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work today. The next plenary meeting will take place on Monday, 18 September, and the next item is political statements and the debate on motion for a resolution No 49/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Global Economic and Trade Agreement between Canada, of the one part, and the European Union and its Member States, of the other part, signed in Brussels on 30 October 2016, draft resolutions 930 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by rejection of CETA — Global Economic and Trade Agreement between the European Union and Canada ( The Greens) and 606 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government promote an extended debate with civil society and non-governmental organizations on the impact of CETA in Portugal and Europe ( PAN ) and the proposed Law No 94 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter the legal regime for fire safety in buildings. However, as you know, there are committees that will normally meet. The meeting is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 5 minutes.]]
