ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u1	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have quorum, so I declare open the sitting. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries, please. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us begin our agenda today, which is composed of a wide range of points, the first being the urgent debate, required by the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party on protected areas classified. To begin the debate, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens Ecological Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u2	Mr President, Minister of the Environment, Secretary of State for the Planning of the Territory and Conservation of Nature, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The Ministry of the Environment announced that by the end of March it will move forward with a pilot project for a new model of management of protected areas, tested in the Natural Park of the International Tejo, and that, by the end of the year, the idea is to evaluate the experience so as to extend it to other protected areas. According to the Government, this new management model would result in a collegial direction consisting of three elements: a camera president, who would lead this direction; a member of the ICNF (Instituto da Conservação da Nature et das Florestas) ; and a representative of an environmental association or a higher education institution. The reasons alleged by the Government for this new management model are essentially two: first, the current management model, the authorship of a PS government, which resulted from the merger of management of protected areas in only five departments at national level, does not work well; secondly, the protected areas have a set of assets that are underutilized. This is the framework which has already motivated the Greens to put questions here, in Parliament, both the Prime Minister and the Minister of the Environment, but the answers do not seem clear and satisfactory, which has therefore led us to convene this urgent debate. Firstly, we must say that there seems to us that there is a point of consensus from which we can start the discussion: at the level of protected areas, things, as they are, do not work well. The Greens also consider that the current model of management of protected areas, imposed by José Socrates in 2008, was not positive, having emptied each protected area of their own board and created the figure of a single director for several protected areas. It was clear, as the Greens denounced at the time, that this distance from directions in relation to each specific protected area made it difficult for decisions to manage proximity, announced more bureaucracy and, above all, intended to disguise the lack of means on the pretext of different internal management of resources. The Government and the majority PSD / CDS, which, in any way or otherwise, have never hidden their desire to take advantage of the protected areas for business proliferation, which could reach the goal of private management of the classified areas, also contributed to the fragility of the planning plans of the protected areas, considered special spatial planning plans, ordering their transposition into the PDM(municipal directors' plans) until mid this year, through the law of ground bases, land planning and urbanism. This is to no longer to mention the clear underfinancing to which the ICNF also voted, joining the forest component, which has not, contrary to what they announced, resulted in any increase in and effectiveness in the monitoring and strengthening of means for the conservation of nature, on the contrary. The Greens argue that each protected area must be given its own direction and that the management of protected areas should promote the involvement of local communities through effective collaborative participations, because this is the way to ensure that management of classified areas is not done against natural resources, that it is important to preserve, or against, people and their sustainable activities. So far it seems that we will not be far from being able to reach consensus with the Government on this issue. The problem is that the government wants to adopt a model of municipalization of protected areas and the Greens feel that this municipality does not meet the objectives necessary for the network of protected areas in the country. It must be made clear that the Greens have a deep respect for this country's authorities and for the role the democratic local power has played in our development, but the question is that there are different levels of responsibilities for different actors. The authorities have a key role to play in the conservation of nature, both because of their responsibility for the creation of green corridors within the territories they administer, with a view to extending biodiversity, in particular in the urban area, and because of their responsibility, for example, as regards the creation of protected areas of local scope, with a view to preserving natural values that cannot be jeopardized. However, it is not the autarchs that must manage natural parks or natural reserves, because this network of protected areas has a dimension that cannot fail to be seen as national, respecting the regional specificities that characterize each area itself. The government may not like to be called'municipalisation', but the fact is that it wants to put camera presidents in charge of the management of protected areas and empower them to decide everything that has to do with economic issues in these classified areas, while the ICNF is responsible for promoting the defence of natural values. Economic interests are what the Government calls « assets », which must be taken advantage of. With this vision, the Government is only digging further into the gap between tensions resulting from economic interests and environmental interests in question. The practical result of this gap has been widely visible in areas of National Ecological Reserve, Natura 2000 Network, but also in parks and natural reserves. Make it clear that the Greens do not defend any authoritarian model of management of protected areas. We defend unbureauty management, as we have said so many times, we defend participatory management involving local communities, authorities, local agents, but we cannot, under any circumstances, defend that the State is irresponsible of its obligation to manage protected areas. Does this include providing the ICNF with means to manage these protected areas well? Yes, it implies applying more means for the conservation of nature and not underfunding it, as has happened over many years. For this reason, The Greens have stepped up their feet in the State Budget for 2017 so that 50 more nature watchers are hired, which are a fundamental part to safeguard the natural values concerned, to act with the populations, to promote clarifications, in short, to ensure good practical management of protected areas. In fact, the fundamental problem with which classified areas have been debated is the lack of means by which successive governments have provided conservation of nature and biodiversity. We are going to debate, ladies and gentlemen. Members, a new model for managing protected areas. The Greens want this debate and a change in the current model, but we would not like to see, as we have seen in the past, authoritarian decisions and imposed by the government without due dialogue. Therefore, Minister, the challenge that the Greens leave to the Government today is the following: be fair and courageous and bring the legislative process on the new model of management of protected areas to the Assembly of the Republic. Parliament, especially with its current training, is the space for finding consensus, improvements in the initial proposals and for working on a legislative framework that promotes a practical and effective sense for the defence and exploitation of our protected areas. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u3	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia asked the Bureau that it could be discounted in the first round of the debate the time spent in excess of the initial intervention, which will be done. Therefore, 2, 35 minutes will be removed at the 5 minutes that The Greens had for the first round. For an intervention in the opening of the debate on behalf of the Government, Mr João Matos Fernandes has the floor to whom the same criterion will apply if perhaps exceed the 6 minutes available at this stage. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I know that this discussion here today will be very focused on the issues related to the amendments we want to promote in relation to the management of protected areas. So I will begin by describing the axes on which our proposal is based. Protected areas are exceptional assets of the country. Because of the abandonment of economic activity and human presence, but also because of the application of the centralist management model, they have been progressively abandoned, not even fulfilling their first function: the preservation of natural values valued with human presence and activity. After 30 years on the first basic law, I think we can say that the themes of the environment have entered the day of that of people and organizations. We have evolved a lot and, therefore, I think we will all agree that we cannot keep the current management model static. To dynamize a portion of almost 8% of the national territory which, in addition to that, constitutes the most representative area of our natural heritage is a task that must mobilize those in the territory who have a decisive capacity to make things happen. The solution must be addressed at national level, focusing on a network of protected areas articulated in a solidarity and consistent manner and on a regional scale, focusing on the uniqueness of the management of each area. All we want is to strengthen the network of protected areas, which will only be possible at the time when the exploitation of the territory is a part of its preservation. We must ensure that human activity continues to generate biodiversity and, to that end, we must involve the managers of the territory and their most representative associations in the management of the protected areas of the country. The management of a protected area involves 67 activities, 32 of which correspond to safeguard missions and 35 missions to promote and enhance the territory. The ICNF, with the means available to it, ensures the first 32, while the remaining 35 are simply to be done. And the result is the view. Safeguarding activities at the ICNF are within the framework of the legal and technical jurisdiction of the Institute itself and some of them arise from European rules and so will be maintained; the remaining tasks of management of protected areas and, as I said, are to be fulfilled. Involving the authorities, NGOs (non-governmental environmental organisations), university institutions and associations with relevant activity in the park in their management corresponds to an effort that will benefit natural values. To call this 'protected areas' is to make a newspaper title, which in this case is wrong and does not correspond to the news. So what are we going to do? First, we will not change the rules, but we will, first, develop a pilot project. We will create a case involving authorities and entities representing civil society in the management of a park. Of course, we want to extend this model and institutionalize it later, i.e., at the end of this year, at the beginning of the next year, we will make a decree-law of which consists a new model of properly experienced management. We have convictions, recognizing that we also have some doubts and therefore this need to experience. The main conviction is that involving those on the ground in management is a gain for protected spaces. The promotion of traditional activities, the recovery of heritage, environmental education and nature tourism, as well as the response to the specific needs of those living in natural parks, are activities that only win if they are led by the authorities. The same applies to science, internationalization of knowledge, sensitivity to natural expression phenomena located here, requiring the involvement of NGOs, universities and polytechnics. The direction of the protected area that will serve as a pilot in the Natural Park of the International Tile will have three elements and will be chaired by an autoarch, elected by the people, the same people that elects the deputies, and that will be the face of the park or protected area. The Technical Director shall be the ICNF and shall be the only "professional" in the direction. The management, which will be an executive body, emanates from a management board, which will integrate all the authorities and associations that it intends to belong to. But, yes, we also have doubts and, therefore, we experience them. First, should this new universal model be? The opinion of the CNADS (National Council for the Environment and Sustainable Development) suggests that no, we should not have unique models in view of the diversity of the territory. The second question relates to the definition of ICNF's own prerogatives. That is, if decisions are to be collegiate, some will always have to have the agreement of the ICNF. As you can imagine, this is not usually a good principle in a shared project, but there seems to be a consensus around it and in this consensus I involve the authorities themselves. Let me still, ladies and gentlemen. Members, take advantage of the rest of the time I have available to update you in relation to another pilot programme, in this case of structural fire fighting in the only national park we have, Peneda-Geres. Yesterday, February 28, the deadline for the delivery of all proposals for the recovery of some of the most iconic areas of the Park that were affected by forest fires last summer. I am referring, in particular, to the recovery of Mezio and Ramiscal forests and also to programmes for the recovery of oak forests and structural prevention of the National Forest of Gerês. These are initiatives that are part of the Peneda-Gerês Pilot Plan, which we adopted in the Council of Ministers last October in the context of the forest reform that the Government has been promoting. It has already provided funding of EUR 8, EUR 6 million, a large part of the Environmental Intervention Fund but also the PO SEUR ( Operational Programme Sustainability and Resource Efficiency ). This intervention in the Peneda-Gerês National Park — and with this conclusion — still has programmes, which are still under way, directed at the authorities and socio-economic training of the populations that reside and work in the park area, because it is our understanding that only with the involvement of local populations can we continue the mission of valuing and recovering natural habitats, both in the Peneda-Geres National Park, and in the rest of the protected areas. That's why, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we need to reform your management. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u5	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, by order, we have moved on to the first round of the debate. Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We believe that investing in decentralization is investing in the country and, in the current legislation, we were the first political force to put this matter on the parliamentary agenda. I recall that we presented concrete proposals during the discussion of the National Reform Plan, but also in the State Budget for 2017, which, unfortunately, in both cases were plunged by the left-wing parliamentary majority. But let us not get into the mood and, at the end of January of this year, we have renewed the presentation of a legislative package on this subject. As regards the management model for protected areas, we also have our brand decentralising. In 2002, in a PSD/CDS-PP coalition government, we introduced legislative changes that culminated in a greater participation of local authorities in the management of these protected areas. Unfortunately, this decentralizing process suffered a strong setback with a socialist government that in 2008 acted in exactly the opposite direction. With this, it was lost proximity and emphasized the feeling that the management of protected areas is, too often, from the backs to the populations and to the autarchs. Mr Minister, let us make it clear that we appreciate the role of local power in this area too, and therefore do not align ourselves with the discourse of demining and disregarding the autarchs. We do not align ourselves with the speech of a certain radical left, which considers local authorities too permeable to economic interests and therefore unable to put the interests of nature in front of economic interests. Mr Minister, we are committed to deepening the decentralizing movement that we successfully launched in the previous Government. And if that is the will of the Government, of the Government which you are integrating, then Mr Minister, it is necessary that decentralization be done as it should be, i.e. that it be done in a planned way, in a coherent and articulated manner. And none of that, Minister, is happening. None of this is happening! It is not happening, in particular, from the point of view of the proposal that the Minister brings to this House for the management of protected areas, where it is evident, on the one hand, that there is a lack of studies and, on the other, a distorted view of the legitimacy of local representatives, who are placed in exactly the same footing as representatives of non-governmental organizations. As it is not happening in general either. Mr Minister, while the Government was drawing up its proposal for a framework law for the transfer of competences, what do we see? We have seen every minister, in a far-reaching manner, outside Parliament, under the protective cover of the law decree, go ahead with his own proposals. That is, every minister has his own agenda, every minister has his own lead and, apparently, every minister or every minister wants to « wet bread in the soup». We have not yet begun to discuss, at Parliament's place of business, Mr Minister, this 'proposal for a framework law on the transfer of competence', which will take place on 16 March, and the Minister for Internal Administration has approved amendments to the legal regimes of the Municipal Police of Lisbon and the Port with new powers. The Minister of Health has transferred competence to the authorities regarding the indication of an executive manager in local health units.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u7	The protected areas are not those!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u8	The Minister of the Environment himself, after the municipalisation of Carris and the STCP (society of Collective Transport of the Port ), wants to increase the responsibilities of the autarchs in the management of the protected areas, although he does not say, or has not said so far, under what means and that strengthening of financial resources will take place. Mr Minister, the truth is this: there is no strategy; there are several strategies. It is not surprising, therefore, that we then see the painful spectacle of seeing the parties of the government against each other and against the government. In fact, that is exactly what is going to happen here today, Minister. That's exactly what's going to happen this afternoon.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u9	Two strategies are better than one!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u10	Or, then, we shall see the parties of the Government claiming to revoke or amend the decisions of the Government which they themselves support. Mr Minister, as you know, this happened in the TSU, it happened with Carris and, Minister, it is prepared that this is exactly what will happen with your proposal to amend the model of management of protected areas. So, Minister, I conclude by saying the following : it is time for someone to order in this house. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u11	Mrs. Members, it is now the turn of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, who has asked to divide the use of its time between Mr Renato Sampaio and Mr José Carpinteira, who will do the favor of managing in this way. Mr Renato Sampaio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u12	Mr. President, Mr. Minister for the Environment, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The creation of protected areas has been consolidated as the most frequent instrument in the management of the territory, assuming the objective of protecting the landscape, cultural and environmental heritage, conservation of nature and biodiversity. The planet lives at a critical time in terms of nature conservation and biodiversity, resulting from habitat degradation, planning of poorly planned territory, increasing the different forms of pollution that degrade the landscape and destroy ecosystems. In Portugal, protected areas are not fully fulfilling their primary function, which is that of preserving all natural values and valuing the territory. The current government, without looking back, but putting its eyes on the future, proposes to change its management model. There is a vision, from which we do not share, in which protected areas should be space of virgin landscapes to preserve only the species and where man would only be a visitor. If it is true that there is often a conflict between the protection of nature and the man who lives in these spaces, imposing restrictions on land use, limiting the use of natural resources and even the use of built spaces, it is no less true that there are no sustainable territorial spaces without human experience. Protected areas may not only represent areas free of human action, but territories that reflect a balance between the natural landscape and the activities developed by man. The Government therefore proposes that the populations be involved in their management, through whom they represent, in proximity management, allowing the existence of regulated human activity in these territories, cautioning environmental values, preserving and enhancing existing biodiversity. There is no municipalization, this idea is not just a newspaper title. The model that the Government presents to us and which is under evaluation in a pilot project in the International Tejo involves authorities, non-governmental organizations, higher education institutions, in a process of sharing management and valuing the Park and its biodiversity, without reducing in any way the responsibilities of the Institute of Conservation of Nature and Forests, contributing to the promotion of traditional activities, to the preservation of heritage, to the promotion of environmental education, to the development of nature tourism, while responding to the difficulties and needs of those who live in natural parks. We do not want to believe, nor do we understand that, over the decades in this House, we have claimed decentralization and development measures in our territories and that someone now prays to test them to find out a final model. We hope that in today's debate the banks and parliamentary groups will be able to take advantage of this opportunity to present objective and positive proposals that enrich the Government's proposal and do not run the path of opposition negativity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u13	To exhaust the rest of the Socialist Party's time, Mr. José Manuel Carpinteira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u14	Mr President, Minister for the Environment, Mrs. and Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs. Members: The management of protected areas has always generated numerous conflicts, sometimes because it is too far from the municipalities, others because it is very close. It is the difficult balance of sustainable development between the environment, society and the economy and, as we all know, the Institute for Conservation of Nature and Forests, with the means available, has not managed effectively in the protected areas, leaving many of these natural spaces to be abandoned. in this sense, the government presents a new model of management of protected areas, which will be managed as assets, and it is up to the municipalities to defend social, cultural and economic values and to remain the ICNF with the conservation of nature. With this new model, it is not concerned to transfer the management of protected areas to the municipalities, but rather to leave some of the aspects of this management to its office, maintaining the protection of nature in the ICNF. To involve the most representative authorities and associations is not to municipalize protected areas; on the contrary, it is to share responsibilities in management, as an essential condition for better sustainable development of these natural spaces. Thus, with this new model of proximity management, the government intends to strengthen and enhance the National Network of Protected Areas. In the PS we effectively believe that local authorities add effectiveness and progress to the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u15	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u16	This will also be the case in the area of the environment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u17	Mr Jorge Costa of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, for an intervention, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u18	Mr President, Minister for the Environment, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia: I begin by greeting Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, of the Greens Ecological Party, for the initiative of this agenda. It is a matter of concern to the Left Block. We took the initiative to address to the Government a question, precisely on this pilot project for the management of the protected area of the International Tile, by two essential concerns. The first has to do with precisely the municipalizing nature of the management of this protected area, in particular, and, in the future, with the others. It is interesting to hear the PSD intervention in this matter, because the complaint presented here is that, being a municipality, it is not as municipalizing as it should be. The PSD wanted more weight and more room for manoeuvre for the authorities in the management of these areas. Our concern is precisely with this municipality because we believe that the authorities are directly interested in choices that may be harmful to the preservation of these areas. We know that much of the municipal revenue comes from concessions, licensings that have ultimately been a threat to the conservation of these areas. Therefore, the whole rhetoric about the valuation of assets in protected areas concerns us when these assets are under an even greater influence of the municipalities and their decision. When we look at the municipalities in the area that will now be the object of this pilot project, the biggest is our concern. In fact, a beautiful example is that of the Town Hall of Vila Velha de Rodão. This council, where some of the most serious environmental crimes have been recorded in recent years — Celtejo company, for example, is one of the largest polluters in the Tejo River — is precisely one of the councils that will now have additional responsibilities in the management of the protected area of the International Tile. And when we look, for example, at the experience of national ecological reserves and at the added weight that the municipalities had in the management of these areas, we again looked at the dangers that can have this added power of the municipalities in the management of these areas. In the municipalities of Alcácer and Grândola, in recent years, massive areas have been unaffected. There have been two of the most widely mentioned examples in the city of Alcácer, resulting in the loss of 68% of the area formerly designated as National Ecological Reserve and in Grândola, the loss was 76% of that area, as a result of the increase in the weight of municipalities or the decentralization of competences towards the CCDRs (regional development coordination committees), due to legislative changes. As for the Left Block, what we think is that this management should be concentrated in institutions that have the concrete purpose of protecting these resources and that are not vulnerable to the pressure of real estate interests, industrial interests, tourism industry, services, which can become themselves, very serious, if they are not considered first of all nature conservation interests. The Left Block has presented concrete proposals over the past few years...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u19	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u20	... in the case of ecological reserves, due to the deaffectation of areas in which projects have not developed and, more importantly than that, so that urban urban gains of deaffectation of ecological reserve areas would be 100 % captivated, to remove the stimuli that these disinfections have represented. In the case of the areas we are dealing with today, it is to avoid the tendency towards municipalization, precisely because, ultimately, it can result in what environmental associations have been reporting, such as the increase of the arbitrary power of the authorities for approval of activities...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u21	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u22	...in areas where there should be safeguard of those values. Mr President, thank you very much for your tolerance. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u23	Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The new management model for protected areas has, above all, the merit of launching a discussion on which the future of nature conservation. However, and in view of the objectives underlying this matter, the solution found by the Government does not raise any doubts. For example, until now, the management of protected areas has surpassed municipal management, that is, municipal power was conditioned. This is what happened, as we all know, with the planning plans, which had to be taken into account in the municipal directors' plans. And this is where doubt arises from our point of view. In theory, there are advantages in transferring powers to the authorities, but in practice, and taking into account the interests concerned, question: who will decide on matters of general and national forum? On the other hand, do municipal chambers feel able to make certain decisions? We well know that centralised management involves risks and decision-making difficulties, in particular the risk of those who decide not to know in-depth what they are deciding on. And it seems to us that this is one of the purposes of the proposal: to approach the management of those who effectively know the territory and thus involve the populations. We also know that sharing management enables savings to the public record. But is this decentralization of competences, from the ICNF to the authorities, accompanied by a financial envelope to provide the municipalities with technical means? We don't know. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have the greatest respect and admiration for the 308 chamber presidents of this country. But there is a need to distinguish between matters of municipal interest and matters of national interest. In addition, there is also here a small mystery to unravel, which is not fully clarified. According to the Minister of the Environment, the management of each protected area shall consist of three elements, and the president shall be an author and the Technical Director shall be of the ICNF. It is important to know who will be the third element, because we do not know either. Therefore, there are subjects that cannot be analyzed in a simple way and should be widely discussed. The CDS does not argue that environmental issues should condition development. However, we are sure that a decision that serves the public interest will only exist through independent and multidisciplinary teams that seriously analyse the important environmental aspect. That is why it will be important, as has already been mentioned, that non-governmental organisations have a word to say, but I agree with the speech of the PSD Member — not at the same level as the legitimately elected autarchs. In conclusion, it seems to us, therefore, prudent that we test this model in some pilot areas and decide definitely afterwards, with more data and more certainty. In this way, we will be able to evaluate the new model, which is expected to be able to solve some of the problems of the ICNF but which still, as I said, raises serious doubts about the efficient protection and conservation of nature. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u25	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of the Environment and their team: Protected areas of national scope, including natural reserves, natural parks, national parks and sites of the Natura 2000 Network, in the view of the CFP, should have public management, without the possibility of being granted, in order to ensure the use of nature and its resources in accordance with human needs. The decentralization of competences in protected areas, present in the new management model, causes us serious concerns about their realisation and design. In fact, the CFP considers that a decision of such importance should be preceded by a greater reflection, as well as by presenting the supporting and supporting elements so that it can be duly weighted. We also believe that a serious and rigorous assessment of the scale of impacts and consequences should be made, in addition to any transfer process, implies that financial, material, human and organisational conditions are safeguarded. In the management model of protected areas, in our view, these conditions do not occur. In fact, the necessary weighting has not been done, we do not know the impacts and consequences and, above all, we do not know the conditions necessary for the exercise of these tasks and powers. In addition, in the proposed new model, the authorities are leading the process, which corresponds to the government's deresponsibility in managing protected areas at national level. For the CFP, only the State can ensure the conservation of nature in its different dimensions. We believe that the authorities, as well as non-governmental organizations, universities and local communities, should be involved in this process, but management responsibility is only for the government. The alleged proximity of the authorities is a fallacy, because, if the concern was this, there would be a director per park, ensuring the presence of the ICNF in each park and not, for example, a director in Braga to manage parks in Matosinhos, Gerês, etc. to that end, Mr Minister for the Environment, is this Government in a position to clarify the issues raised, namely: what is the scale of the impacts and the consequences of the implementation of this transfer? Are the conditions for the exercise of these powers defined? What will be the human resources, in addition to the 50 nature monitors being hired, as well as the material resources to be allocated? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u27	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we continue our work, I would like to inform the House of the presence in the Court of the Diplomatic Corps, of a delegation from the Congress of the Members of Spain, headed by the respective President, Mrs Ana Pastor. I would like to welcome our guests. [[General applause, stand up.]] We will continue with the speeches in the first round of this urgent debate. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, from the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Member: All governments that have changed the model of management of protected areas, and not few have always claimed the need to do so to improve the conservation of nature. They assessed that the thing was wrong and, therefore, to improve, it was essential to change the management model. I think this argument is already a little repeated, so we may have to go another way, assessing in concrete terms what is at stake. And indeed, Mr Minister, what has failed in successive governments has been precisely the model of financing protected areas and the allocation of resources to protected areas so that they can in fact pursue clear and effective objectives in their management in the field of nature conservation and biodiversity. However, when the means are scarce, it is clear that there are certain objectives that cannot be pursued. In addition, and I am also rightly aware of the lack of means, Mr. Minister knows that there is no monitoring...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u29	Mrs. Heloísa Apollonia, may I interrupt?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u30	Of course, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u31	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to create conditions so that you can hear exactly what Mrs Heloísa Apolónia says and pay due attention to her speech. Please proceed, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u32	Thank you, Mr. President. As I was saying, the Minister knows that there is no continuous monitoring of biodiversity in all places where there should be and that there is no assessment of the state of ecosystems everywhere where there should be. On the other hand, Minister, let us focus once again on the method by which the government is opting for. And the method is this: the creation of a pilot project in a concrete park, in this case, in the International Tile, which the Government intends to extend to other protected areas. The great fear of the Greens is that this is a way of gradually imposing the model that the Government wants. The Greens did not like to arrive at the end of this process and have to accuse the Government of having imposed a certain model. That is why I reiterate the question I asked in the gallery: is the government or is not prepared to focus on a new model of management of protected areas in Parliament? Is the Government prepared to bring the legislative process to Parliament so that in Parliament we can establish the necessary dialogue and consensus, and together we will actually create the best management model for protected areas? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u33	The next item is Mr André Silva of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u34	Mr. President, Mr. Minister for the Environment, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The NAP does not have a closed position on this issue which the Government says does not designate « transfer of competences », preferring the designation « participation in the management of protected areas ». However, we will find this management, as I prefer to designate, in Bill No 62 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ), which has as its heading « Establishes the skills transfer framework for local authorities (... ) ». To speak in municipalization is not to speak in newspaper titles, because the editorial criteria are yours, Minister for the Environment. Therefore, we clearly need to be clarified about almost everything, for it is even almost everything that is omitted in this Bill No 62 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) that the Government has already scheduled for consideration in plenary on the next day 16. What can be said is that this bill, with regard to protected areas, is extremely empty, it is extremely omitted. And if, in fact, there are rulers and autarchs with consciousness and watching for the common good, most have a general idea that soil has value only when it is urbanizable, when it is urbanized. But, Minister for the Environment, I would like to leave you five questions. We are aware, through the media, that this management of protected areas will be done by three people: an autoarchy, an ICNF representative and a representative of an association, a non-governmental organization. I would like to know whether the representative of the ICNF will be exclusively in a particular area or whether several areas will be covered, as is now the case. What are the criteria for choosing the representative of the non-governmental organization or such association?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u35	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u36	Will the law provide that a particular authority may create an association to then withdraw its own benefit from its appointment or will it be well-armed in this matter? How are the decisions of this body made? Are you going to be a schoolgirl? Who's in charge of every decision?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u37	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u38	Finally, I leave the last question to you, Minister: will there be a public report after the end of this pilot project?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u39	For the last intervention in this first round, Mr Minister for the Environment has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by saying to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia that I do not see in Burt Lancaster's sentence that "something will have to change so that everything will remain the same". That is why we are doing a work in which, unlike the REN — the example given here — we believe that we should not start by legislating. We must even begin by making an experience, which takes place within the terms of the law and, therefore, who makes the decisions today is who will make the decisions during the time when this same pilot project is worth. And, yes, Mrs Deputy, we are fully available for, by the end of this pilot project, to be able to discuss our proposals in Parliament. When the CFP Parliamentary Group asks us whether the weighting has been made, I answer: of course not. The weighting will do it now. We have a strong conviction: this is done throughout the pilot project itself, of which it will certainly result in a public report which will be, firstly, very important to inform our own decisions and certainly also to inform everyone who wants to participate in them. No, Mr Jorge Costa, there was no defamation of the REN proposed by the authorities. What happened was that new rules, rules, these, inherited by this government, rules that could have different interpretations and that were not interpreted everywhere in the same way, but that were clearly not tested and, because they had not been tested, in many cases, may have given way. That is why, even today, Thursday, the Secretary of State for the Planning of the Territory stressed an order — which was indeed made public the last time I liked to be in the Committee on the Environment — in which the new rules for the National Ecological Reserve are defined or begun to be defined, and in which it is said that any change in the size of the REN area, by more than 10 % or less than 10 % of what exists today, has to have an additional weight and a decision taken by the Directorate-General of the Territory and by the National Council for the Planning of the Territory. Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco, I am very grateful for the questions you asked me. Who will decide on national forum matters, I have no doubt in the answer: the ICNF. And there are many issues of the national forum that continue on the table and that are a cyclical task for the effective means that the ICNF has. Who will decide on the Natura 2000 Network is the ICNF ; who will decide on the ecosystem mapping—which should have been completed in 2012 and which is now, and only by this government, to be initiated—is the ICNF ; who will make all decisions on all scales—including those of management—of the introduction of species at risk, with certainty that it is the ICNF. Mr Renato Sampaio said very well: there is no municipalization here and, therefore, the transfer of means, with all respect, is a matter which does not apply and which makes no sense. What we want, yes, is to share resources that already exist today from the ICNF, which unfortunately do not have the conditions for having a director in each park in terms of exclusivity. We will try very hard to see that, at the level of each of the plan regions, there can be more than one person—for sure, there will be — to figure out and fulfill the role of the technical director of each of the protected areas, but there will not be a director of the ICNF in each protected area. In fact, the model that the Socialist Party interrupted, well! — this has already been mentioned — it was that of the existence of a director in each natural park, who was no more than an unelected author and who had no account of anyone. In fact, that is the model we do not want to repeat. I find it strange that the Social Democratic Party will remind us of the attitude it has taken with regard to STCP and Carris. I thought you wouldn't want to talk about it again. It was, in fact, a takeover of the local power as I do not remember seeing in this House,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u41	It was a lapse!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u42	...a party that is the VV party. Ex.. They're trying to fix their hands, but I think they're late. With regard to this matter, they seem to have a different position, but I am sure that no one will ever forget—and I confess that I will not forget the Portuguese—what you did to the local power last time I enjoyed being in this room,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...where not even in public came to reveal your intention. When the debate was five seconds from the end, they had your proposal circulated, which they did not even have the courage to speak out loud in this House. Finally, and to conclude, for each natural park, for each protected area, there will be a general council to which the ICNF, all authorities, all institutions here voluntarily, if they wish to join and pass through universities, polytechnics, NGOs (non-governmental organisations), by legitimate associations that exist in the park itself, and surely the law will avoid any chapel like that suggested by Mr André Silva. It is from this general council that leads this direction. The only person who is fixed in this direction, and who will be the Technical Director, is the representative of the ICNF. The authorities will find their way of appointing — possibly, for example, in a rotating way — the author who is present in the direction of the park and in the same way the institutions of civil society will choose who feels that they are better represented. Who makes decisions within the direction, being the direction the collegial body, is, of course, that same college. But because we feel — and nobody denies it at any time — that there is, in fact, a set of decisions, the ones that have to do with licensing, where the role of the ICNF must always be paramount, this pilot project serves exactly to understand the prerogatives of the ICNF decision. To conclude this intervention, I would also like to say that I have never heard of the assets that exist within the protected areas and the natural spaces. They are the natural areas themselves and the protected areas themselves that constitute a very relevant asset. The asset is the natural parks, the asset is the natural heritage that justified the classification of 8 % of the national territory as a protected space. Objectively, he is not looked at as an asset. An asset does not exist to be exploited, much less an asset such as that of natural heritage. An asset exists to be managed as such. In fact, we are very bad at those who look at protected areas and at the role of the ICNF as someone who simply says 'no' and who sometimes says 'yes' to the wishes of others. This is really, in my opinion, a poor, very poor way of looking at the natural parks. It is essential that one can look at this territory which is, particularly within the country, more differentiated, all of this same interior, as a space with a large set of opportunities, being evident that what is fundamental in these opportunities is the preservation of natural heritage. We cannot deny, because we do not have the conditions to do so, and in my opinion it is good not to do so, that the exploitation of these territories has been completely forgotten, we cannot deny that the ICNF has no means, or even a vocation to do so. It is right here that we want to make a difference, not by doing anything at all, not withdrawing any power from the ICNF — if this is a matter of power — but rather by calling the authorities to participate in this model of management, in this collegial direction, and with equal presence — even though it is different from the status given to the president of this direction, who must be a author — all the institutions that have a relevant role in the park. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u43	We are moving on to the second round of the debate. Mr Bruno Coimbra of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u44	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Since the Minister of the Environment speaks of the former governance, let me start by telling him that we have done a lot, with the bankruptcy that has left us... [[PS protests.]] ...and that your concern should be to do better, which you cannot say so far.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u45	That victim's role is tired!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u46	But the debate is already in the middle and there are two very clear points. The first is that decentralization is too important a process to be done in an orderly and unstrategic manner. The PSD has a very clear and constructive position in this area and, if the government gives signs of wanting to move forward, it will only have to do correctly and consistently,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u47	...but unfortunately, this has not happened. Mr Minister, a coherent and capable decentralization does not take place at various speeds, by contradictory paths or by roads and shortcuts. However, that is exactly what we have witnessed, ladies and gentlemen. Members: every minister with his or her agenda, acting in a disorientated, wireless government. This socialist government, after ensuring the lead of the measures for decentralization and the enhancement of the local power presented by the PSD, during the discussion of the National Plan of Reforms and the State Budget for 2017, or undo what another socialist government did in 2008, which was in fact to remove the authorities from the management of protected areas. The words of the then Socialist Minister Nunes Correia, which justified the option with the need for « separation of powers », are recalled. And how does the government now act? By decree? I impose? Without passing through the Assembly of the Republic? Without heeding the framework law of decentralization that has just referred us to and that we have not even begun to discuss? But, after all, why? Why does the government act this way? What motivates the government to act like this? These questions lead us to the second point, which is also very clear. It is that the left-wing majority that supports the Government — such a stable and consistent left-wing majority that Mr. Prime Minister claims to have — is a majority that does not really support it, a majority who looks at the autarchs and local power with suspicion, a majority who does not accept that the autarchs are able to take up these or other functions, provided they are guaranteed conditions for this.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u48	But that is our problem and not yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u49	That is why the Government and the Minister are subject to the role they have here today. Mr Minister, decentralization is essential for the country, but if it is done in a balanced, coherent manner, and not torn apart or to the cheeks. It is time for the government to take the country's governance seriously! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u50	For an intervention, Mr João Torres of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u51	Mr President, Minister of the Environment, Secretary of State for the Planning of the Territory and Conservation of Nature, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Members: Debating protected areas and their management model is always an excellent opportunity for us to value, as mentioned here, some of the most relevant assets in our country. We therefore congratulate the Green Party on its initiative. Today, important concerns have already been highlighted about this part of the territory, whose management must always have as a top objective the preservation of natural values. There is, of course, a myth that this debate has been able to clarify: that the Government was preparing to proceed with the municipalization of protected areas. When referring to protected areas, it is important to remember that only nationally we are in front of 32 geographical spaces of excellence and that each of these 32 spaces still add to regional, local and private areas that have qualities that should not only be respected, as they can and should be enhanced. We need a new culture of interaction, a new culture of proximity among all the agents who live daily with these parcels of the territory and who better understand their problems and their value. We need, in essence, a new paradigm of participation that does not find a response in the current model. He pointed out, and well, the interventions of this model, in particular with regard to 35 of the 67 activities involving the management of a protected area and which today, simply and simply, are not ensured. Maintaining the management model as it exists today is not a solution and, therefore, getting your arms crossed cannot be an option. The PS Parliamentary Group highlights the clarity, prudence, but also the serene determination of the government to understand that it is not possible to support or conceive a model in which different organizations and institutions live from back to back to protected areas or are unable to establish between themselves the relations of dialogue and cooperation that they themselves may be generating biodiversity. Mr Minister, the minimum requirement for an opposition that had responsibilities in the management of protected areas for four years and that little or nothing did for them is that he had the ability to present an alternative in this House, in this urgent debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u52	We've done a lot!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u53	But as for alternative proposals, it is zero, as we have been accustomed to in this House in almost every debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u54	Have shame! On March 16th, I want to see you speak!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u55	Mr Minister, I leave you, however, a concern, not as agitated as the PSD bench is, but very legitimate...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u56	Mr President, but leave the concern quickly, please, because your time is up.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u57	Mr President, I am sorry, but it was impossible to continue my speech with the noise of the Members. Members of the PSD, so next time Mr President may draw your attention to your behaviour in this House. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u58	Mr President, I do not need lessons on whom I should draw attention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u59	They are mere suggestions from a Member, Mr. President. Mr Minister, however, I leave you with a concern in the form of a question addressed to you: can you assure this House and the PS Parliamentary Group that any decree-law to approve in the future will not only respect the first results of this pilot project, which we welcome, as well as the need to adapt the management model to the singularity of each territory and, of course, of each protected area? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u60	Mr John Vasconcelos, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government says that with this pilot project will be tested the new management framework, giving leadership to the autarchs, and that it will be a model to replicate at national level. The Left Block does not agree with this model given that it involves several risks. It means that protected areas will become managed on the basis of criteria of local interest and not of national interest, for example real estate or tourism interests of a particular chamber in opposition to nature conservation interests. It means that municipalising the management of protected areas could lead to a typical « flap blanket », different from municipality to municipality and in accordance with particular interests and not with the public interest. It means that a protected area chaired by a camera president who has just reinforced the presidential model, which is already a mistake in the authorities, will also be a mistake in the protected areas. It means that the management of protected areas should be assigned to the most appropriate and suitable bodies for the task in question. The authorities should not, by nature, be those bodies. It means that the economic profits of the authorities, in many cases, are antagonistic with the protection of nature, better saying, the protection of nature is incompatible with the expansion of real estate. It means that the risks of privatization of some skills will be enhanced due to lack of size in the authorities. In short, with this intention from the Government, the importance of protected areas will be questioned in our view. Of course, the former Government, PSD / CDS, is not a virgin in this respect, since it was this Government that approved measures to reverse the rules of the planning plans for protected areas to municipal directors. Mr Minister, I wanted to leave you two specific questions. With this new model proposed for protected areas we do not run the risk of creating new PPPs (public-private partnerships), involving the authorities and non-governmental organizations of the environment? Will this model not open the way to privatization of some of these related areas or services? Finally, will these proposals not have the same effect as has happened with regard to REN (National Ecological Reserve ) and that now the government has to correct? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u62	Mr Hélder Amaral, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u63	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: It seems to me that this discussion, which is too serious and relevant to the national interest, cannot be done between 8 and 80, that is, in which or is everything for the municipalities or then municipalities have nothing to say about this matter. I believe that we need to have a balanced view of this matter and that we should not be led to major political differences. I will even say that any investment made in these assets is not a cost, it is even an investment. These protected areas have economic value, have the value of biodiversity, have heritage and cultural value and are, in themselves, very relevant to territorial cohesion and the country's economy. The ESC ( Economic and Social Council ) is conducting a study and organizing some colloquiums on the importance of forests, particularly in protected areas, where its contribution to job creation is clear for GDP. Therefore, on this subject, we do not really want to do an ideological discussion, but it is true that municipalities cannot be reposited of what is difficult for governance, even if they have means, nor can they be looked at with distrust. I think that proximity represents obvious gains in the management of protected areas, of course, it maintains its specificity, its consistency, but it is clear that this has to be a matter of national decision. Mr. Minister said: 'Well, the ICNF (Instituto de Conservação da Nature et des Forestes) has no technical means, humane'. Well, maybe you should start by preparing the ICNF for these same means. In the model Mr. Minister says that the ICNF technician will not be a mere figure of style, he will even be someone who will have an important decision, but I have some doubts, because that was not clear. Obviously, we will be here to discuss and understand the role of this technician. I understand and agree that there is something that has to be more technical than politics, but the decision still needs to be balanced. In my opinion, as the previous government has done, if there is inconformity, if there is inconsistencies, if there is lack of control in the territory, it is better to merge the ICNF with the forestry authority and perhaps to improve the mechanisms. It does not shock me to extend this to something supramunicipal, because many of the areas are in this context. I just want to say, Mr Minister, that it is important that you explain better, even to address the doubts, perhaps legitimate, of your governance partners, that you look at this matter and already go to the limit of calling them PPPs and saying that municipalisation' nor think! In order for the decision-making model to be well understood, that is, an author who presides over a region of this region does not have all the power of decision, protecting what is essential, such as that the ICNF technicians, despite the medium parks, can give guarantees, in accordance with the national interest and these assets, that we will not, in fact, have an insoluble difference between the economic interest in protecting biodiversity of nature and certain economic interests here.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u64	Mr. Deputies, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u65	With this I shall finish, Mr. President. Putting these assets into use is also a way of protecting and giving them economic value. We'll all win if it's done. Mr Minister, here we will be waiting for the proposal to be discussed. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u66	To intervene, you have the floor of Mrs Paula Santos of the Portuguese Communist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : It is true that protected areas in our country suffer from numerous problems that result even from the de-investment to which governments have been subjected successively. In fact, this is very evident, even in the enormous shortage of nature vigilantes that exist today in these areas. Mr Minister, in the face of this diagnosis and the identification of these problems, the solution cannot go through the deresponsibility of the State in guaranteeing the daily protection of nature, which is absolutely strategic, I would say, for our own development. I'd say it's strategic because we're talking about natural values that have to be protected, safeguarded. We are talking about areas which, in our view, should follow a national strategy for their protection and which are not compatible with the fact that they can be transferred to, in this particular case, the authorities and remain at the flavour of political options at local level. With regard to this matter, it is important to take this matter into account: when we talk about protected areas we are talking about competences and assignments, and it is important to see what level of power your exercise will be best performed to achieve your objectives. In view of the objectives that are present here, of areas that are national, of values that are national, we have no doubt that the government is responsible for this, not transferring its competence or its duties to the authorities. In this regard, we do not diabolize the authorities and we also affirm that in the authorities of the CDU, such as those of Alcácer and Grândola, there is good work with regard to the environment, the protection of the natural areas, in the planning of the territory, which confronts even with options of others who have initiated a set of processes that are exactly opposite to this objective I mentioned here. It is also worth mentioning: Mr President, there are no conditions for placing a director in each of the parks. Question: Why, Minister? What prevents you? With regard to the management of protected areas, the problem of proximity was precisely because of the concentration of functions in a director to manage several parks. The question is, in fact, in the Government, to find solutions within the framework of its responsibilities and instruments that can meet these objectives. And yes, Minister, we agree that the authorities, the scientific community, the associations, the local communities have a word to say. They must be involved, but this cannot mean that the government washes its hands from there and transfers to the authorities a responsibility that is yours. That is why there are several concerns about this, but I would say that the first is, in fact, the need for a national strategy for the protection of natural values from protected areas.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u68	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u69	I will finish, Mr. President. The government cannot, of course, de-responsibility. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u70	To speak, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u71	Mr President, Minister, we can take good care of the words here, but things mean what they mean. When the Minister comes to say that 'of course, then we will be very pleased to discuss this with Parliament', that does not leave me rest with regard to the claim and the challenge that the Greens came here today to make to the Government in this regard. The challenge was to:legislate in the Assembly of the Republic, with the electors, Minister. Basically, as I said earlier in the rostrum, taking into account today's parliamentary composition of the Assembly of the Republic, the redistribution of its political forces, we believe that there are conditions for being able to debate in a very serious way, to generate consensus and not to go by the logic that has been that of all other governments, which is to impose a certain model to test it on the ground always under the logic of underfinancing. As we already realize, there is no model that is supported under the logic of underfinancing. I would also like to know whether or not the Government is committed to legislation on the new model for protected areas in Parliament. I would like you to give a very concrete answer! Mr Minister, on the model he is proposing, said : « The ICNF is unable to have a director in each park ». Why? Why don't you have the right conditions to have a director in every park? Why does the ICNF not have the right to have that responsibility in each park, but it has the right to have a member of the executive committee, a technician, in each park? We must have the means to do this in every park—that's right, Minister! All parks, all protected areas have very specific features, they are part of a strategy for conservation of nature and biodiversity at national level, and it is clear that we have to provide human and technical resources for these protected areas in order to pursue their objectives. Then Mr Minister, to rest us, says the following: «But this element of the leadership of the ICNF will decide on this, he will decide on that, he will decide on the other... ». And I ask: and the author decides what? It is that we have not yet been able to actually visualize, to understand in fact how the Government thinks this model and how it will be implemented in practice. You mean, after all, the author will serve only to convene the meetings? Is that what the leadership presidency is for? « No» — Mr Minister. All right. So what's it for? What power of decision has the author in this direction, since he is the president, is the leader of this decision? And Mr Minister, just as you are saying that the member of the ICNF is going to decide on this, that and the other one, also tell us what the other elements of the management will decide and, in particular, now also the environmental associations or elements of a higher education institution. How, after all, is the rest of the collegiate direction, in accordance with the model that the Government is trying to propose?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u72	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u73	These are concrete issues that we have not yet been able to understand, and it was good for us to understand them.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u74	For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u75	Mr President, Minister, I want to leave you two concerns. One of them has to do with the prediction in the law of everything he came to say. Bill No 62 / XIII ( 2 ) ( a ), which aims to establish the skills transfer framework for local authorities, has 43 articles and only one item says that participation in the management of protected areas goes to intermunicipal entities. All that you have mentioned here, Minister, is not in this bill. So, where are we going to have backup, where is everything Mr. Minister said will be recorded? Another issue concerns funding. Mr Environment said that he recognized that there was a great lack of investment in the management of protected areas due to lack of means and that, with the presentation of this model, this failure would be overcome. But how, Mr. Minister? Is it supposed to be the municipalities involved in costing nature conservation when they have part of their territory qualified as a protected area? Is that not why the law of local authorities, for several years now, gave a significant amount that should be allocated to municipalities so that they could make this investment in protected areas? What, then, is the reason why this allocation of funds has always been suspended in the budget of the State? Now you're going to stop being? Will it be different? Will the government allocate more financial resources from the central government to manage these areas?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u76	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government has informed the Bureau that it wishes to combine the intervention time of the second round, which is 10 minutes, with the closing time, which is 5 minutes. There is no inconvenience at all, because the order of interventions would be precisely that of the Government to end the second round and to start the closure and then the Greens Ecological Party. in this perspective, the Minister will have 15 minutes, that is, of the 10 minutes of the second round and the 5 minutes of the closure. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u77	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Mr Bruno Coimbra, don't hurt me, but he told me that I talked about the previous government and criticized it, but I didn't talk about the previous government. In fact, there was no reason for me to speak of the former Government. If we're talking about doing things here and the former government hasn't done anything, what should I say about the former government? [[PS's laughter and applause.]] Let me make it clear that I did not speak at all at any time in my speech about the former Government. It was already written, and it wasn't really what I said. In fact, those who expressed contempt for the municipal wills were VV. Ex. with the position with which they faced the local power, in the case of Carris and STCP, in which the political project had nothing to partisan and in which many autarchs, living in the Metropolitan Area of Porto, voted favourably a model that you wanted to counter completely in the Assembly the last time I was here. Mr. João Torres is quite right when he refers to the opinion of the CNADS (National Council for the Environment and Sustainable Development) as he says — the difficulty of the existence of a single model for all territories. When we think of the Montesinho Natural Park, the Douro International Natural Park and the Peneda-Gerês National Park — where, in fact, there is an exceptional collaboration between the authorities and the ICNF, but where we also felt it was obvious that we should not start this model by the only national park we have — we are talking about territories that are certainly comparable to their management. But when we talk about the Natural Park of the Arrábida, the Natural Park of Sintra-Cascais, the Natural Park of the Formosa River and the Natural Park of the North Coast, we talk about significantly different territories and where the caution we are showing in the steps we are giving should have even more guarantees that this evolution we are making is a meaningful evolution. Mr. João Vasconcelos, the greatest environmental brutality that was committed on a natural park was the construction, at the time, with completely different rules, of a set of illegal houses on the barrier islands of Ria Formosa, and you strongly oppose the fact that these houses leave there. That is why, with all honesty, I am not concerned at anything about the role that the authorities can come to have here, because, I repeat, you, Ex.a, on many other occasions, have always come to an opinion which, in my view, is deeply wrong and represents what should not be done in a protected area, in a natural park, and which you Ex.a — and not only — has systematically a lawyer. And no, the State is not irresponsible even in any of these matters. Mrs Paula Santos, what you suggest already exists. There is no lack of advisory advice in natural parks and protected areas involving a wide range of entities that you now think should be involved. With due respect, then, it is really necessary, as I said recently, anything changes so that everything will remain the same. That already exists. There is and is far, far away, from working well. That is why we really need to take this other step. And we will never cease to advocate taking this same step. Mr Hélder Amaral, the ICNF will concentrate its resources on national issues. And there are many gaps we have found, some of them certainly coming from the Government of Ex.A. and others of previous time, with regard to a set of actions that I will describe in greater detail in my final intervention. But I really believe this is a thoughtful view. And we must not forget that today many of the relevant promotion activities that exist in natural parks and protected areas are managed by authorities. Who manages the gates of Peneda-Gerês National Park? Who manages Mezio's kill? Who manages Castro Laboreiro Natural Park? They are the municipal chambers, in joint projects where the ICNF has a very relevant role in providing information. Knowing all the limitations that exist in the intervention of the ICNF, knowing how important it is throughout this year - Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has all the reason - which will be the greatest intervention capacity the ICNF will have with the hiring of 50 nature watchers - as you already know, it is public, the competition for the first 20 has already been opened - seems absolutely fundamental to me that the ICNF ensures the network vision. In fact, this network vision was built in the former Socialist Government. And it is essential that the ICNF concentrate on a wide range of tasks and responsibilities which are increasingly, many of them coming from a set of Community rules, which are often difficult for the ICNF to carry out with the means it has. I'm sure we're talking about national values. But I keep asking who builds them. And who builds them are even the populations that live in these places. It is that, in a landscape like ours, and except for a few exceptions that exist — and still recently, I spoke of two cases, one of which is the forest of the Ramiscal and the forest of Alberaria, which are territories where there is no human activity — in all parks of this country there is a profound human activity and the absence of this human activity leads to a loss of biodiversity. And, in fact, who promotes it and who causes it, in the proper sense, is who is there. And it is those who build these values that, after that, by the size they reach, are then national values. Finally, before my final speech, I would like to say that the power of the decision-maker is the leadership, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia. It is the direction, as a collegial body, that will make the decisions. What happens — and, indeed, it is common, and it is not true, a virgin — is that, within this direction, there is an element whose opinion is binding on the taking of a set of decisions. In view of the 67 powers I mentioned at the beginning, in 35 of them it makes no sense because they are those that have to do with the promotion and exploitation of the territory, but in 32 of them — I do not say in all, but in many — in fact, the direction that decides, the ICNF has to say 'yes' to decide in a way, or 'no' to decide otherwise. This is the model we have, the model where it is essential to have a face and where the value of proximity must even be realized. And it must be realized, as I said in the initial intervention, by putting those who make things happen to lead these same processes, because otherwise, what we are doing is to repeat the model which, with all respect, I believe is being swindled, which is the model of the advisory council and the general council, which objectively has not fulfilled or contributed to the various functions of valuing the territory in protected areas. As a final note, I would like to address a number of other issues that complement many of those that have been discussed here today. Start with the special conservation zones ( ZEC ). The work that began within the framework of the Natura 2000 Network is essential to update the knowledge about habitats and to make the situation point of its conservation state. This work was stopped, it has completely incomplete dates, particularly in the face of the European Union. at this time, three distinct contests are underway in the context of the Institute of Conservation of Nature and Forests. The competitions concern the development of digital cartography and management plans for 20 sites of Community interest, and there is still a third area with regard to management support, an essential area to provide the ICNF with the technical support necessary to ensure that special conservation areas are properly established, which do not yet exist in this country. These contests I refer to are essential for us to be able to move forward with a project that should have been completed in 2012. And what is at stake is the promotion of 60 sites of Community interest to special conservation areas in the European network. Managed by whom? For the ICNF, of course. In order to carry out this process, it takes about €3.6 million, which leads me to the second point I would like to address in this intervention. The environmental policy needs financial capacity to continue without interruptions that ruin the work that has already been done and to avoid waste of management resources. One of the first concerns I had as Minister was therefore to ensure the necessary means to pursue environmental policies. This is what we have done with the creation of the Environment Fund and with a much more focused management of the available funds of the PO SEUR ( Operational Programme Sustainability and Efficiency in Resource Use ). Thus, we have a financial muscle to intervene in the conservation of nature and in other areas of environmental policy, of course, and always recognize with limitations. The most substantial part of nature conservation funds will be channelled through applications to the SEUR PO. under this financial support programme, we have a total allocation of EUR 40 million for biodiversity and ecosystem protection projects. Of the 53 applications already submitted, a total of EUR 20 million was requested from the Cohesion Fund. We have already approved 30 of these applications and a total of EUR 15 million has been allocated, i.e. almost 40 % of the planned allocation. This means that in two years more than a third of these funds have been made available and, as you imagine, almost all of them have been made available in the last year. The opening of six new notices for 2017 will also provide EUR 6 million for studies which are essential to the pursuit of a true policy of conservation of nature conceived at national level. I speak of the management plans of classified areas of the Natura 2000 Network, the National Register of Classified Natural Values and the action plans of species. The way we are managing the funds of the PO SEUR represents a break with what we have inherited. Our inheritance was not only bad with regard to implementation and approval — only 5 % of the funds were committed — it was also bad with regard to priorities. As far as the Environment Fund is concerned, let me first of all note that we have put it into operation in record time — and time recalls that it means two months — and that 30 % of the funds for new projects already come under tenders or signed protocols. All this was done in just two months. It is with great curiosity that I am waiting to be told the number of authorities who have applied to the fund for the purchase of electric vehicles for environmental services, knowing that, in the middle of yesterday's afternoon, there were more than 100 candidate authorities. I repeat: all this was done in two months. It is precisely under the Environmental Fund that for 2017 we have EUR 4 million for nature conservation. Maintaining the model we had, and existing only the Nature and Biodiversity Conservation Fund, its revenue was not even EUR 1 million; with the construction of the Environmental Fund, we managed to implement EUR 4 million, i.e. about 10 % of the total funds of the Fund will be applied through protocols with the ICNF. I conclude, ladies and gentlemen. Members, saying that we are training the Administration, giving it the means to better know the habitats and thus ensure the conservation of nature. We are, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to ensure the financial means to carry out these tasks, some of which have been postponed for many years, we are, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, to speed up the implementation of the programmes so that the funds are not wasted. This is to fight for a true policy of conservation of nature, which is what we are doing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u78	To close the debate, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens Ecological Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u79	Mr President, I regret that the Minister for the Environment has not answered directly to the question raised by the Greens on the possibility of the legislative process in the Assembly of the Republic. That is, of course, a political reading we must make. However, he does not think that the Greens will continue to insist on this legislative process in the Assembly of the Republic. We believe that this is important, even in order to oppose it, to break this routine of successive governments impose certain management models on themselves, in an impossibly way, testing everything and something else, and so that we can actually extend the debate — I address Mr Minister again to win the word with the electors. In the meantime, I should like to recall that the Minister has publicly stated that — this has been disseminated by various media agencies — in the protected areas, it would go to the authorship to manage everything related to economic, cultural and social activities and that for the ICNF there was the nature conservation component, hence the issues that the Greens put to the Minister on the subject. I would also like to say that our great concern is this: an author has basically as interest or vision, so let us say, the local interests, of his administrative constituency — it is normal that it is so, that is why he is elected. The State must, on the other hand, have a different, broader view of issues and, in particular, take account of the national interest. As I have also mentioned, autoarchs already have vast powers in nature conservation and biodiversity, in particular with all the competences they have and must, in fact, exercise in the context of the expansion of urban biodiversity and also of local protected areas. In fact, the Greens cannot agree, firstly, with everything that can be transformed or brought closer to a municipalisation of protected areas, i.e. with this model of allocation to the autonomous authorities of power in the management of protected areas, which must, I repeat, have a vision and a national interest. On the other hand, Mr Minister, as we also pointed out, the great problem facing protected areas has to do with the shortage of human and technical resources. The name of the Institute has already been ICN (Instituto da Conservação da Nature), it has already been ICNB — adding to it « and biodiversity» — now is ICNF — added to it « and to the forests». I do not know how many times they have changed their name, but the fact is that there has always been underfunding for this structure and for the various tentacles through which this structure is sent to the ground, especially in protected areas. This has indeed been a problem, particularly in terms of the lack of human resources. Mr Minister has just said here that the ICNF has no people to go to the protected areas. Mr Minister, we have to equip the ICNF with the people and staff needed to go to the protected areas. I remind you of what the Greens have done at the level of the State budget for the hiring of more than 50 nature watchers! It is, in fact, that the number of nature vigilantes—are themselves to say - it is an absolute shame, in that it generates inefficiencies on the ground, not, of course, by the incompetence of those who are there, but by scarcity, by the non-existence of those who are not there. If we take into account that, in the last 15 years, the number of nature watchers has fallen 50 %, we have a good idea of what we have been doing to our so-called protected territory, classified, but which, in fact, has experienced a real disprotection status through this successive de-investment. Mr Minister, there is something else that has not been mentioned here: the National Strategy for Conservation of Nature and Biodiversity. What's it like? What kind of state is that? Now, a country that is not endowed with a National Strategy for Conservation of Nature and Biodiversity has to be told! It is that, in fact, this is all being secondary and cannot be, because when we talk about biodiversity, we talk in particular about services provided to human societies, and many people don't even think about the value they have. When we talk, for example, about climate regulation, full regulation and out there, many people do not even understand the importance, the value of what is at issue at the level of biodiversity and also, in particular, the level of conservation of nature and protected areas. That is why, Minister, we must give this matter a great priority in this Parliament. Once again, the appeal made by the Greens here is for this matter to be legislated in the Assembly of the Republic. Mr Minister — and I shall finish, Mr President — you have heard the Greens say this many times: the purely conservative conception of biodiversity, nature conservation, has been totally wrong since the 1980s of the last century! Indeed, the involvement of populations in protected areas is fundamental to the very appreciation of biodiversity. Mr President, do you think that we are advocating an authoritarian model for protected areas that leaves populations, local communities, local agents, city halls? Oh, my God! No, of course not! One thing is to involve, to participate, to call for collaborative participation and another thing is to municipalize. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u80	This concludes the first item on the agenda, the urgent debate, the request of the Green Parliamentary Group on classified protected areas. of the second point is the general discussion of the projects of lein.os 346 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Integrates the representation of the National Council for Youth in the Economic and Social Council by amending Law No 108 / 91 of 17 August ( PSD ), 414 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Alter to Law No 108 / 91 of 17 August governing the Economic and Social Council ( PSD ), 415 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Includes representatives of pensioners and pensioners in the Economic and Social Council, amending Law No 108 / 91 of 17 August ( PSD ), 138 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Includes representatives of pensioners and pensioners in the Economic and Social Council ( amendment to Law No 108 / 91 of 17 August ) ( BE), 417 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Sixth amendment to Law No 108 / 91 of 17 August, Law of the Economic and Social Council, in order to include in plenary two representatives of the National Council for Youth ( CDS-PP ) and 425 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amends the seventh Act No 108 / 91 of 17 August governing the Economic and Social Council ( PS ). To speak the first intervention, Mrs. Joana Barata Lopes of the Democratic Social Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD presents three diplomas amending the composition of the Economic and Social Council ( ESC ). The Economic and Social Council is the body to which the Constitution assigns the task of social dialogue and therefore, for us, PSD, unlike others, the ESC is not a kind of enlarged cattle fair. of the contributions we have received, we realize that the law of the Economic and Social Council can and must be improved globally. But what the PSD considers to be urgent is to ensure that they cannot continue outside the social dialogue between the Government, the social partners and representatives of the organised society, which cannot continue out of the appreciation and pronunciation of the country's economic and social development policies three fundamental bands of Portuguese society: young people, reformed and Portuguese communities.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u82	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u83	We therefore propose that the National Council of Youth, pensioners, pensioners and representatives of the Council of the Portuguese Communities be included in the ESC. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u84	In the case of reformers, the ESC will include the organisations which society has been able to create according to its representativeness, as must also happen. In the cases of the National Council of Youth and the Council of the Portuguese Communities, these are the entities that we want to include. As evidence of this, the National Youth Council is the only representative body of the youth that emanates from this Assembly, which recognizes it as an interlocutor of the Portuguese youth in its absolute cross-section and in its national globality. This is not only important, because the PSD does not want young people in the ESC to discuss youth or reformed policies to discuss positive ageing, as well as pleasantly. We want them, on the basis of the reality they represent, to participate in the configuration of the social and economic policies that affect them directly, to configure the principle of intergenerational cohesion there, which can incisive in social dialogue the need for policies that guarantee the sustainability of the country in the medium and long term. These, young and reformed, felt in the skin the consequences of good policies to advertise, popular and populist, because immediate and unsustainable. And as long as they try to rewrite history, the very recent past has proved that the immediate and unsustainable is incompatible with a country in which old and new people have a future...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u85	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u86	... and in which, in social dialogue, they have a word to say. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u87	Did they cut wages and now they're talking like that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u88	To present the legislative initiative of the Left Block, Mrs Domicília Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u89	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As the Economic and Social Council is a body for consultation and social consultation, it should represent all the most relevant groups of Portuguese society. Since the law establishing the ESC of 17 August 1991, although it has been subject to several amendments over the last 26 years, it is natural that it is somewhat out of date with the current reality. Thus, in the analysis of its composition, it is clear that there is no representation concerning one of the sectors of our society that has been particularly affected in recent years by austerity policies. According to the latest statistics, the Portuguese population above the age of 65 will be around 2 million people, corresponding to about 20 % of the total population. the pensioners, pensioners and pensioners are missing, however, the presence necessary to have access to an active and participated intervention with the sovereign bodies. That is the purpose of the legislative initiative we have come to present to this plenary of the Assembly of the Republic. The Left Block understands that the inclusion of the representation of pensioners, pensioners, retirees and the elderly in general in the Economic and Social Council constitutes the greatest justice and as a deepening of democracy and the will of a relevant social group. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u90	To present the legislative initiative of the CDS-PP, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Economic and Social Council is a body of the greatest importance, with constitutional dignity. It is, first of all, the space for dialogue and dialogue between sovereignty agencies and civil society. in this context, the following questions are raised: how is civil society represented? How do we ensure coverage, pluralism and democracy in the process of selecting and recognising the turnover of sectors of civil society? In our view, this concern of ensuring representativeness to civil society should guide the intervention of the legislative power, seeking above all to provide civil society with conditions to be heard. It is in this sense that the proposals of this bench go, and we welcome the fact that, by subjecting ourselves here to the vote, the proposal for the inclusion of representatives of the pensioners, pensioners and pensioners in the plenary of the Economic and Social Council has already been a long way off. In fact, at the time, this proposal deserved the agreement of the CDS, the Social Democratic Party and the Left Block, and now we are pleased to see that the Socialist Party has already presented a proposal that follows closely ours, which, at the time, voted against. And, according to the hearings and statements we have received, we shall even consider the positive proposal of the Communist Party as far as possible. Nevertheless, we have found that, in the Socialist Party's proposal, representativeness is withdrawn from pensioners—I do not know if it is a lapse. it calls for the representativeness of pensioners and pensioners, but does not include those of pensioners. But, finally, as we are still on our way and as the PS has already made a path, it may be that until the end of the process continues to move forward and continue to come to our meeting in this area too. In addition, for the first time we have discussed the inclusion of youth representatives from the National Youth Council in the ESC plenary. In our view, this is an important step that needs to be taken, young people must have a word on all issues that concern our country and cannot be exempt from contributing with a vision that adds guarantees of sustainability, whether ecological, social, economic or financial, to the future of our country. We also express our agreement that the Portuguese community in the diaspora should also be involved, congratulating us on the proposals that are put forward in this context, either by the Social Democratic Party or by the Socialist Party. One last word to say that the proposals under consideration do not necessarily exhaust the amendments to be reflected in the final version to be put to the vote. An extended hearing process is under way to a set of entities whose hearing may determine other changes in the field of expertise. in this context, and for our part, we have a concern already expressed by Mr President of the Economic and Social Council: we must let ourselves be questioned about the extent of the representativeness of the different sectors that are already represented in the plenary and perhaps we should, even, withdraw some discretion in the competitive process of selecting different entities in order to ensure more coverage, greater pluralism and greater democracy in their representation. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u92	To present Bill No. 425 / XIII ( 2. a ), by the authorship of the Socialist Party, has the floor Mr. Ricardo Bexiga.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Social dialogue is, in the view of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, a fundamental pillar of the European social model and a vital instrument for the construction of shared and pluralist commitments, which, in this regard, are vital to national life. The Economic and Social Council, envisaged in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, as a body for consultation and consultation in the field of economic and social policies, is an essential public space for the realization of a more participatory and pluralist democracy integrated into the major social and economic flows of Portuguese society. The role of the Standing Committee on Social Dialogue in promoting dialogue and dialogue between the social partners is highlighted in its functioning, contributing to the definition of income and prices, employment and vocational training policies. The PS believes that the role played by the Economic and Social Council to date has contributed to a more dynamic, participatory and balanced society, with an indispensable contribution to Portugal's economic and social development. At present, there are representatives of 22 sectors of Portuguese society in the Economic and Social Council, but young people, pensioners and Portuguese communities living abroad remain without direct representation. These three sectors of Portuguese society today have a key role to play in defining what are the major economic and social trends and in defining national public policies, both because of their representative importance and because of the special problems affecting them. In recent years, both young people, pensioners and pensioners as well as our compatriots living abroad have been particularly affected by the policies of austerity of the last government, which have aggravated old problems and have caused new and serious problems: young people who have become unemployed, who have had to emigrate, who have abandoned studies, who have been forced to pay prohibitive tips;...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u94	This is unbelievable!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u95	... pensioners who have suffered a blind and unjust cut in their reforms and pensions, stealing from them the minimum conditions for a dignified life; emigrant communities, who have been ignored in the contributions they can make to a nation more open to the world, should be recognized for the very important role they can play in national life.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u96	You don't know what you're talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u97	The Socialist Party therefore proposes the inclusion in the Economic and Social Council of representatives of the National Council of Youth, of the National Federation of Youth Associations ( FNAJ ), of associations and organizations representing pensioners and pensioners, as well as of representatives of the Council of the Portuguese Communities ( CCP ). With this proposal, we intend to extend and strengthen the social dialogue and the civic and effective participation of citizens in the definition of public policies, now counting on the contributions of these three important sectors of Portuguese society. We therefore intend to contribute to a stronger, more representative and more effective institution with this proposal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u98	Mr Carlos Alberto Gonçalves, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, is now speaking for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese communities scattered around the world today are a clear opportunity for Portugal, representing a potential that must be recognized and exploited. Its human, social, economic and political value is now a further value for Portugal, for its development and for its affirmation in the world. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u100	We therefore believe that the Economic and Social Council should be able to count on the contributions of the Portuguese universe that reside abroad. in an increasingly global world, our communities have strategic value, which can be decisive for the interests of a country with the dimension of ours. It seems clear to us that we have only to win if we include representatives of a sector that has an external and broader view for this discussion in the planning of social and economic policies. Our communities are essential to the country's results.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u101	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u102	I could remember the traditional remittances here, but I would particularly like to refer to investment—there are many authors here who know that—and the role they already play in the internationalisation of our SMEs (small and medium-sized enterprises) and in the results of tourism, where their contribution is increasingly relevant.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u103	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u104	This is also another proposal presented by the PSD to extend the civic participation of our communities. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you have no doubt that, despite the physical distance, our communities maintain a firm desire to continue to contribute to the future of our country. The Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u105	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u106	I will now finish, Mr President. As I was saying, the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party submits this proposal because it believes that Portugal is not exhausted in its territory and therefore more than responding to an aspiration of our communities, what we want is to safeguard the interest of the Portuguese people, is to safeguard the interest of Portugal. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u107	To give the next intervention of the PCP, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today a number of legislative initiatives which aim to change the composition of the Economic and Social Council, with a view to its enlargement, proposing that new members be joined by the composition of its plenary, which is of course a matter which we believe should be worth discussion and reflection. As the Economic and Social Council is a constitutional body for consultation and consultation, which has as its principles and objectives the promotion of the participation of economic and social actors in the decision-making processes of the sovereignty bodies in socio-economic matters, and also considering their competences, composition and functioning, it is important that the amendments which are made take into account, among others, these same parameters which we refer to. We know the will expressed by organizations, including pensioners, pensioners and the elderly, as well as youth organisations, to integrate the Economic and Social Council, something that we are sensitive and that deserves our reflection, and the process that is currently under way in the field will be an important space to deepen this same reflection. We also understand that it is important that the amendments to the composition of the Economic and Social Council, in particular its plenary, should be subject to the criteria of rationality, which safeguard the necessary balances, so that it does not result in a distortion of the composition of the ESC itself. An assessment of the composition and functioning of the ESC plenary — something that has just been addressed when we discuss proposals for enlargement — must be a rigorous and careful process, as well as taken part by the current members in their specific mission, considering what has been the hearing and consultation process to members of the ESC and to a number of entities and organisations, what will undoubtedly be important in order to deepen the reflection on the enlargement of the ESC, as well as to know positions, concerns and proposals, in addition to being able to contribute, of course, to the final votes. The CFP will continue to monitor this process, always taking into account the need for the adequacy of the proposals, depending on the mission and the objectives of the Economic and Social Council. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u109	In order to speak the next speech, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens Ecological Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to inform the Member of the CDS that this is not the first time a project appears in the Assembly of the Republic to propose that the National Council of Youth be incorporated into the Economic and Social Council. I do not know if you remember or consulted the previous process, but in the past legislation The Greens have, on the whole, presented a project of this nature here, in the Assembly of the Republic,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u111	And the PSD too!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u112	... that, as we all know, it was adopted, but this legislative process, which aimed to propose the integration of several associations into the Economic and Social Council, ended with the end of the legislature and did not end with it. It is therefore important that this legislative process should be resumed and that it should be taken to the end. On the other hand, I would like to share with the ladies and gentlemen. Members: precisely in the context of this legislative process which took place in the past legislature, the Greens may have been more aware that it is important for the Assembly of the Republic to make a reflection on the composition of the ESC. If we are, in a way almost disaggregated, proposing the integration of a set of associations, we can create some imbalances and, as has been said, some — I think it is a very good word — distortion in the composition of the ESC and its own representativeness, which we must take into account. This does not mean that the Greens are not in favour of the projects under discussion. Moreover, in the past legislature, we proposed the integration into the ESC of representatives of CNJ, migrants and also Portuguese communities, because we consider it important, taking into account the specificities of the experiences of these communities and sectors, so let us say that they could have a word in the advisory component in the plenary of the Economic and Social Council. in this sense, The Greens consider that this legislative process must continue to promote moments of reflection, of audacity, and we will also make our reflection and assume our position in this process that is under way, aware that it is important that these sectors, particularly those of youth and others that are proposed here, have a word to say about the policies that are being pursued.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u113	For a second speech, Mr Paulo Pisco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For the Socialist Party, it is absolutely essential that representatives of our communities be included in the Economic and Social Council. In fact, during the previous Parliament we reached an absolute consensus on the whole hearing process that was to know who the representatives should be or how the composition of the Economic and Social Council should be reformulated. In fact, there are many issues that also concern our communities, but for which they have never been called to give their opinion and, in many matters, especially in economic and social terms, they have a fundamental and very close look at their affairs. Therefore, for us, it is a matter of promoting a matter that will not only make effective greater national cohesion as it will make our country stronger, more representative and more effective, as my colleague said, through the inclusion of members of our communities in the Economic and Social Council. It is absolutely essential that this inclusion be made and that it be done now, because in the previous Parliament there was a whole process of hearings and it was not for us that this process was not completed. We therefore welcome the fact that it can be concluded now and that the representatives of our communities are integrated. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u115	For a second speech, Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Block on the Left generally accompanies the concerns, reflections and proposals brought here, particularly on the issue of youth, on the inclusion of the National Council for Youth in the Economic and Social Council. The changes in the economy and in the labour market and the crisis that young people are experiencing today due to the difficulty in finding work and the difficulty of the labour market itself conforming to the new realities of higher education are fundamental issues, and young people are concerned about them. It adds to this social crisis, also a political crisis due to the difficulty of successive national governments, in the political discussion platforms, whether they are European or even beyond the European continent, to find formulations and solutions for young people themselves to discover in politics, politics and in those decision-making spaces what they are looking for, which is certainly to live better than their parents' generation, and not the other way around. That is precisely why the inclusion in the National Youth Council brings first of all the ability to approach a young person's view of the problems that affect him and the problems of the country. at the same time, the Economic and Social Council should have the ability to hear more closely, but without any kind of "partisan" and paternalism, the discussions that young people today want to make in Portuguese society and the solutions they want to find. from the Left Block, we follow the concerns and reflections and it is important that today the Economic and Social Council have a greater scope and openness to a discussion that is fundamental and that goes through the future of our youth. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u117	The Bureau no longer registers for this second item of the agenda, so we will move on to the third point, of which is the discussion of draft resolutions Nos 657 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — By the urgent requalification of the Basic School of 2. o is 3. the High Cycles of Lumiar ( PS ), 508 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake urgent intervention at the Basic School 2, 3 of the Upper Lumiar, in Lisbon ( CDS-PP ), 550 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government initiate the necessary mechanisms for the construction of the new school EB 2 / 3 of the Alto do Lumiar ( PCP ), 613 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government an urgent solution to the Basic School 2, 3 of the Upper Lumiar, in Lisbon ( The Greens ) and 684 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Urgent requalification of the Basic School 2, 3 of the Upper Lumiar, in Lisbon ( BE ). To open the debate and present the initiative of your party, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Education can effectively not only be a right on paper, an abstraction that then has no translation into the reality of day-to-day schools, and I speak above all of the schools that need support and particularly need attention. Everyone has to be entitled to a quality school. The discussion that brings us here today, that of the requalification and urgent need for works at the Basic School of the 2. o is 3. the Cycles do Alto do Lumiar, the old School D. José I, is a good illustration of what is a school population abandoned for years and years of incuria in preserving its school equipment. It is an area where we have a school that is an Educational Territory of Priority Intervention (TEIP ), but which unfortunately has little priority, with a school population is growing in an area where the city is also growing and, even more, this forgetfulness is evidenced by the fact that all schools in the surrounding area, all those that are 1. the cycle and which, therefore, are in the municipal sphere, have been subject to requalification in recent years. In the same grouping, the school course begins in schools that were effectively requalified, but in the passage to the 2. o is 3. the cycles, students meet a school that has never had background since its construction, in the 80s. In 2011, having been preparing a first wave of recovery and intervention, she was removed, as in the overwhelming majority of the schools in the country, from the lists of interventions in preparation, and for a long time since the local authorities and the Defense Platform of the School EB 2, 3, composed of the association of parents and the association of residents, who today are represented and we greet, have come to draw attention to what, if only half were concerned, was already serious. There are infiltrations in virtually all the pavilions, the electric picture is insufficient, the dining room has no conditions, there is inability to warm up the quality and climate conditions throughout the school, there is no sports pavilion, there is no auditorium, there is a damaged pavilion, there are laboratories without conditions and with surplus material, there is no room for students with multi-deficiency, in a group and in a school that has a population with these deficiencies many have been identified. Therefore, what is essential today that the Assembly of the Republic also places as priority is the path which, fortunately, began to be partially reversed. In July last year, for the first time, a member of the Government, the Secretary of State for Education, visited this school and immediately committed himself to the realization of urgent intervention works, already budgeted at €120 000, to move immediately to what is absolutely incontrovertible. But we know that these urgent works, which took many decades, are not enough and that it is necessary effectively to prepare a background retraining and give conditions to all students attending school to abandon the forgetfulness to which she has been voted over the years. For this reason, more than just this urgent intervention, it is also essential that it embraces the path of deep requalification, the weighting of what must be built of root and what must be recovered, so that that school no longer be marked by the difference in relation to others and becomes also a lighthouse and an example for all groups of the city of Lisbon and for all groups of the country, that is, a school where effective inclusion and promotion of equal opportunities can be promoted. I hope that today the Assembly will be able, with a spirit of unanimity and constructive construction, to allow me to have a pleonism — to give this hope and this capacity for change to the school and the population it aims to serve. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u119	To present the initiative of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u120	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing here today the situation of the EB 2, 3 High School of Lumiar, which, as has already been said, is a school that was built in 1986 and that until today it has never been the target of renovations, either infrastructure, or in its filling, including tables, chairs and laboratories. This is the headquarters school of a TEIP group, which means that it has a determining social role in the community in which it is inserted. Several parliamentary groups have visited the school recently and we have all seen the degradation situation in which the school is located: the rooms have flagrant humidity, the glass is gone and therefore there is no isolation, there are no thermal conditions, the laboratory or music equipment are dated, the kitchen is without hygiene and safety conditions, the electrical facilities are in danger, the spas are unable to be used, there is no flag for the Physical Education classes and there is no accessibility for students with special educational needs or to support multideficiency. In view of this situation, we can discuss the past, and it is true that, in 31 years and several governments, this school has never been intervening and, in these terms, a speech of pass-backs becomes, in my view, quite spurious. We can, and we should, focus on the present and the near future, which is, in the end, what matters to the school and the educational community, which has been very diligently represented by the Community High Lisbon Group, here present in the galleries and which I greet. in this sense, the CDS submitted a parliamentary question to the Ministry of Education in July, having received the following reply in September: "The Ministry of Education will develop efforts to modernize the facilities of this school, providing it with the structures necessary for the proper implementation of its educational project" — this without date and without priority. It was therefore by means of the PS draft resolution, not by means of guardianship, that we learned that these efforts are already underway in the field, which we are very pleased to confirm. It is then reported that the PS draft resolution that the school was placed on the list of establishments to be envisaged in 2017, with an amount of €120 000 being entered, which should include replacement of coverages, repair of infiltrations, replacement of the floor in the kitchen and the dining room, remodeling and preservation of the cover, the furniture of the spas and still the sealing of the field of games — €120 000 for all this work! In addition, a second phase of interventions has also been set in motion to raise the budget of the substantive works. As happened in the district of Coimbra, in the José Falcão School, it was the visit of the deputies or members of the government who triggered the solution. That is why I urge you to do so. PS Members visiting more schools, because that seems to be what triggers — thank God! — the completion of the works. [[PCP and BE protests.]] Here we will be, as in fact, the Community Group of the Alta de Lisboa, to ensure that these works take place. I would just like to conclude by recall that the second stage of the work, in such a deep reconfiguration, is likely to be the responsibility of the City Council of Lisbon, within the framework of decentralization of competences. In caution, I would recommend attention: the New School Program, of the City Hall of Lisbon, is with a worrying delay. of the nine new schools that were expected only two were executed and of the 48 requalification interventions only 18 were completed. Therefore, I think it is prudent to note that this second stage is going to happen so that the good intentions, which I think they will reap unanimity in this House, of all the draft resolutions presented, will actually have a good result. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u121	To present the draft resolution of the PCP, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u122	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the Defense Platform of the Basic School 2/3 High Lumiar and its representatives, present here in the galleries, and the fight they have developed in defense of a decent and quality school for all those who study and work there. The Basic School 2 / 3 of Alto do Lumiar, in Lisbon, is in a high state of degradation and requires urgent intervention. It was built as a temporary school in the 1980s and today, at first sight, has a semi-abandoned appearance marked by very serious problems that affect classrooms and common spaces, such as the kitchen, the dining room, the bar, the leisure spaces and the living room. The PCP visited the school in June 2016 and faced an unacceptable situation, which cannot continue and lacks a basic solution. Despite the removal of asbestos from the corridors, there is still crack fibrosis on the roof of the buildings. The classrooms have no minimum operating conditions: now the cold is unbearable and the students attend the classes of cap, gloves or blankets, or it rains in the classrooms, now, then, the heat is intolerable. All the equipment is very degraded, even because much is still the original since the construction of the school, in 1986. The 558 students and teachers and non-teachers see their day-to-day affected by lack of air conditioning, hot water to take bath, gym, auditorium and chemical physics laboratory. The windows are old, they do not promote proper isolation and often do not even open or close, the estors do not work either, the floors are irregular and the electrical system is deeply degraded, with decarnated wires, candles suspended almost by wires and infiltrations in the system, which should deserve security concerns for students and school workers. in this matter, I recall that, in the kitchen, where meals are made daily, the refrigerators, stoves and the rest furniture are also the same for 30 years but more rustier and more degraded and the workers operate on an old and rough floor. In the visit that we made and that gave rise to a PCP motion for the construction of a new school, approved at the meeting of the City Hall of Lisbon, and to the draft resolution we present today, we contacted the school community that defended, more than a requalification intervention, the construction of a new school in the same space, a school that ensures conditions of dignity to the whole school community. We cannot forget that this is an Educational Territory of Priority Intervention since 2010 in response to a community in need of pedagogical projects to combat failure and drop out of school. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The state of degradation of the school based in the grouping reflects the material and human de-investment to which this community has been subjected and which cannot continue. We should not forget that over the past few years, particularly in the last four years of the PSD/CDS government, public school has been subject to deep investment, with negative reflection on its operating conditions. The current government must therefore break this path and must promote the investment necessary and balanced to respond to these serious and urgent deficiencies of all schools and of this too. The CFP advocates that all measures be taken that meet the fair aspirations and demands of this school community that require a new school, a definitive and no longer a remedy, and that, in conjunction with the educational community, transitional solutions are found that ensure the best interests of children. We believe that the construction of a new school would be an important stimulus for the appreciation of the pedagogical process of these children and young people and for the entire community in this area of the city of Lisbon. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u123	To present the Greens draft resolution, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u124	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since its construction, which took place about 30 years ago, the Basic School 2, 3 of Alto do Lumiar, in Lisbon, has not undergone improvement or remodeling works either from its built equipment. As a result, the Basic School 2, 3 of Alto do Lumiar is now very degraded, which raises problems of lack of conditions of operation and safety, which has created much concern and concern for education officials, students, teachers, employees, residents and also local institutions. Every day, the school community faces dangerous situations that are far from functioning worthy of an educational institution. This school has broken windows and damaged roofs, raining inside the classrooms, the wooden floor has loose heels, the rooms are very cold in the winter and very hot in the summer, the electric system is completely degraded, and there are even decarnated threads and infiltrations in the system. In addition, this school is also not equipped with an auditorium and an indoor space for physical education, which leads to students only being able to practice outdoor sports, regardless of weather conditions. In addition to these situations, there is no accessibility for students with motor disabilities or conditions for the creation and development of the multi-deficiency support unit, requiring disabled students to have to move to other schools due to lack of accessibility conditions. There are missing spaces with conditions for the science and music rooms and the dining room has equipment with 30 years. Faced with this scenario, the learning and training conditions of students are at stake, in addition to security issues, situations that conflict with the principles of a public and quality school, as enshrined in the Basics Law of the Education System and the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. It is also important to note that this school of Alto do Lumiar has been part of the Regional Educational Programme for Priority Intervention since 2010, seeking to prevent and reduce the failure and dropout of schools, promoting the educational success of all students and working on solving economic and social problems. However, the state in which this educational institution is located runs counter to the pedagogical intervention which is intended to be carried out and which assumes that, in addition to ensuring the necessary human resources, there are also material conditions, which definitely does not exist in this school. In addition, the Community Group of the Alta de Lisboa, an informal group that integrates several institutions, including the Association of Parents and Educational Officers of the Group of Schools of the Upper Lumiar, and which develops social work in the Alta de Lisboa area, has come to claim the proper conditions of operation of this educational institution. In view of the above, the Ecological Party « Les Verdes » considers that it is urgent to solve the problems of the EB 2, 3 of the Upper Lumiar, in order to ensure the dignified conditions in this educational establishment to the entire school community either through the total rehabilitation of the school or, if not possible, due to the severity of its state and its level of degradation, the construction of a new school. This is the purpose of the legislative initiative presented today by the Greens for discussion and we hope to help resolve this serious problem in this Lisbon educational establishment. [[Applause from the PS and PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u125	To present the draft resolution of the Left Block, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the representatives and representatives of the association of parents and the platform, who have been tireless in defending the rehabilitation of this school. At EB 2, 3 of the Upper Lumiar, in the last 30 years, to be realistic, only really changed the name: she passed from Secondary School D. José I to Basic School 2, 3 D. José I until she reached EB 2, 3 of the Upper Lumiar, home of her respective grouping. In fact, outside the name, everything else was more or less in the same, as if the school, as has already been said, had been forgotten. We realize, by visiting the school- and the Left Block also did this visit- that if the school has not been forgotten, at least it has been neglected over the last ten years. Well, this is a very expensive forgetfulness. Since 1986, when the school was built, that is, in the last 31 years, what was bad got worse, what was broken went definitely and the school's degradation worsened. The problem was that, when the works were frozen, the perspective of this work was abandoned in 2011 and the hope that the school could be rehabilitated was deteriorating. This school has 550 children. 75% of children since the group have social activities in school, so this school is included in a disadvantaged population context and is a TEIP school since 2010. But the truth is that being a TEIP school was not worth anything from the point of view of the need for rehabilitation of this school, because works do not see them! We can and should ask whether the existence of a psychologist or a social worker in this school is sufficient for the school's context and its needs, but we are obliged to go a little further and wonder how it is that school success is promoted when it rains in classrooms, when children are going to shiver cold into classrooms, when there are uncarnated electric wires, when there is no covered pavilion and hot water in the spas, when there is no auditorium or a multipurpose room, when the floor rises and the roof falls. What conditions are there for promoting school success? What conditions are there for children's safety when asbestos roofs are broken or when containment walls are degraded? We, who talk so much about inclusion and the need for inclusive school, have here so close a school where children who move in wheelchairs have to be loaded to the library, which is 1. the floor, because there are no conditions of accessibility. These children depend on the solidarity of colleagues, teachers and employees to access this crew. We, who talk so much about inclusion, have here so close a school where the multideficiency unit does not have the conditions to work. Therefore, for all that has been said here, it is obvious that this school needs urgent and deep work. I therefore want to welcome the CDS and PSD who have come to the conclusion that freezing the works, not doing works in this school was a mistake - and we all agree on this need - but I also want to warn that 120 000 euros will not reach the works it needs. The parents and mothers present here claim more than remedies; they complain well, they claim to be heard and they complain that there is a need for a commission that counts with their participation in the so urgent rehabilitation of this school, and that is what the Left Block defends. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u127	For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u128	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is a fact that EB 2, 3 of the High Lumiar needs urgent retraining. The PSD Parliamentary Group knows this and recognizes the relevance of the intervention in this school where there are degraded classrooms, broken windows, damaged roofs, loose floor, fully damaged electrical system, representing a high danger for students. This school does not have a auditorium or pavilion, has no heating and there is even an increase in the lack of students on cold days, because students cannot even write, and those who go to school go with caps and blankets to give themselves. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The situation is inconsequential, so we are united in understanding that this school urgently needs retraining, and from the Secretary of State and the Government we expect to act accordingly. I would like to add that EB 2, 3 of Lumiar was built provisionally in 1986 and was never the subject of any intervention - the materials and the configuration of the school are those of origin. Obviously this school did not integrate the requalification of schools carried out by the School Park, this school was not contemplated by the luxurious requalifications that the School Park has been doing, spending the money of the public record on megalomanian works and with design touches. In fact, the government of then, instead of opting for adequate requalifications to the country's condition, and thus covering more schools, chose to make megalomanian requalifications in some schools with luxury materials, manifestly inadequate to function.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u129	For those who haven't done anything...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u130	Therefore, the money that was scattered was needed, and it was very lacking, to other schools, as is the case with EB 2, 3 of the Upper Lumiar, which continues exactly as it was built 30 years ago and does not offer dignified conditions to its students. [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] And it is very curious that the draft resolutions have been submitted by the parties that support this government, the Government that has most invested in education, the Government that assists the degradation of schools at various points in the country, such as the Alexandre Herculano school in Porto, which closed because it rains, the EB 2, 3 Professor Egas Moniz, in Avantca, the Basic and Secondary School of Castelo de Paiva, the schools in Santarém, which present infiltrations and humiditys, and so many other schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u131	Only now that you've seen it?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u132	While you were happily doing the party, doing works throughout the country with Siza Vieira lamps - 12 lamps, I remember, which cost 20 000 euros - there were other schools... [[Protests by PCP MP Ana Mesquita.]] I know you don't like listening, but you have to listen! So while this was going on, there were other schools that were going to stay behind and for which neither for the most basic things, such as broken windows and damaged roofs, there was money. Not for basic things, and so it rains today in the classrooms. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members: This was the party that the previous government went to pay. It was the bill of this party that you left us to pay. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u133	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think that the interventions were all in a relatively consensual sense and walked in the right direction, with the exception of the latter,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u135	... because it seems to me that everyone, including the CDS, who, having been in the previous government, recognizes the difficulties of the school, recognizes that what we are interested in today and should move us, as Parliament, is the urgency of these interventions. And, tell the honourable Member what you want to say, what is true is that there was a government member who, last year, went to school, yes, who visited it and automatically triggered a process that, at least - and it is true that in a very insufficient value that does not come to solve all the problems of the school -...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u136	It's just conversation!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u137	... for the urgent answers, it will cause for the first time in 30 years, the school will have interventions on issues that are absolutely fundamental and priority. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I must say one more thing: as has been emphasized by Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, and rightly, this is not a step-by-step exercise, but also, let it be said, it is not an exercise that has led the parliamentary groups, who have known him since 2013... For example, I have been at that school with Mr Miguel Tiago and Mrs Joana Mortágua — at the time she was not yet a Member of Parliament — we already know the problem of school for some time, because indeed it is a problem that has been dragging for many years and that, for the first time, has a vision of a solution, has a vision of a solution detected, which, to a great extent, is due to the mobilization of the school community, to the mobilization of the parents, to the mobilization of the residents' associations, to the mobilization of those who live with a school that does not meet the challenges that the territory places them. But it is also important to remember two things, just to finish: first of all, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa - and now let me disagree about anything - what is true is that the New School program of the City Hall of Lisbon has recovered 72 schools in a universe of the 113 that are climbing.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u138	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u139	I will finish, Mr. President. If that school were already being protected by the City Hall with all certainty it would already be rehabilitated, because the other four members of the grouping, all of them, were re-qualified and are working on an equal basis today. The first priority for this Parliament is indeed to give an answer...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u140	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u141	I shall conclude, Mr President. ... to students and students. I think that's what we have to do, and that's what we're going to do with all the conviction. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u142	Mrs. Members, we have reached the end of the third item on our agenda, with the appreciation of draft resolutions Nos 657 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PS ), 508 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( CDS-PP ), 550 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PCP ), 613 / XIII ( 2. a ) ( The Greens) and 684 / XIII ( 2. a ) ( BE ). We move on to the fourth point, with the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.os 326 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Measures for social support to mothers and parents students, assigning to parents the same set of rights granted to pregnant women and mothers ( first amendment to Law No 90 / 2001 of 20 August ) ( BE), 423 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Measures for social support to mothers and parents students ( first amendment to Law No 90 / 2001 of 20 August ) ( PCP ) and 424 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter to Law No 90 / 2001 of 20 August 2001 laying down social support measures for mothers and parents students ( NAP ). For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Cunha of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u143	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The project that the Left Block here aims to amend Law No 90 / 2001 of 20 August. This law provides for social support measures for mothers and parents students of basic, secondary, professional and university education who have been, and are, important instruments in combating dropout and failure at school, as well as in promoting the training and education of young people. However, perhaps because it is already a law with almost two decades and the result of a still conservative conception of gender roles, in particular with regard to child care, it assigns differentiated rights to men and women, parents and mothers, in particular with regard to the possibility of conducting examinations at a special time, the transfer of educational establishments or enrollment in educational establishments outside the area of residence. Therefore, this diploma guarantees these rights only to women, mothers and pregnant women, denying them to men and thus conditioning the participation of male parents in education and care with children. at a time when in so many areas, so many efforts are being made to walk in the direction of increasing gender equality in all dimensions of social, family, economic and political life, the promotion of responsibilities and the participation of men in education and care with children is also, and must be, an unmistakable objective for a more equal society. This flagrant inequality grows with the approval of Law No. 2 / 2016, of February 29, which I take advantage to greet, marking the anniversary of the Law that allowed the adoption by couples of the same sex. [[Congratulations from BE.]] It is that if this law eliminated this discrimination and extended this possibility of adoption to couples of the same sex, Law No. 90/2001 ultimately legitimizes an inequality between heteroparentality and homogenality and also prohibits a couple of parents-men students the rights they are granted if they are two women. A mother may request the transfer of her teaching institution or perform exams at special times but a father cannot, because he is a man. In the case of natural parents, by virtue of widowhood, separation, divorce or because they exercise parental responsibilities alone, being the only holders of parental responsibility for whatever reason it is, it may even imply the choice between the studies or children, and the same applies to a couple of the same male. It is therefore important to correct this inequality and to annul, once and for all, this philosophy which is based on stereotyped gender roles and which aims to attribute to women the unique responsibility of care for children, while at the same time removing this responsibility for men. We are no longer in this time and it is time for laws to follow life. [[Congratulations from BE and PS deputy Isabel Alves Moreira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u144	Mr Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing here today amendments to Law No 90 / 2001 of 20 August, a Law which resulted from a bill submitted by the PCP at the time, and that was a very important step in guaranteeing rights for mothers and parents students, because it allowed social support measures to be defined, contributing to combating school dropout and failure resulting from this specific reality. When we proposed this bill we identified the great need to consider measures of social support to mothers and parents students to allow the exercise of the right to a conscious and healthy motherhood and fatherhood, in harmony with the other spheres of life, as well as to ensure and promote the education and training of young people and thus contribute so that pregnancy and maternity were not factors leading to dropout or failure at school. Despite the changes since then, in particular the extension of measures to clarify sexuality, the obligation of paternity leave and the decriminalization of voluntary termination of pregnancy, there are still cases of pregnancy, maternity and early paternity, with an impact on the lives of young people and their families, and thus the importance of knowing these realities in order to follow them and to ensure that young people who decide to take their pregnancy to the end are not involved in webs of social exclusion and poverty, and that their stay in school is successfully promoted. Thus, and of course understanding that it is also important to continue to intervene in the direction of prevention of pregnancy in adolescence, particularly through sexual education and family planning, as well as access to contraceptive methods without difficulties, it is important to know what is the applicability of this law, the conditions of schools and public higher education institutions to ensure their compliance, and still the identified cases of pregnancy in adolescence and their follow-up. We therefore propose that the measures taken by schools and public higher education institutions should be taken. We propose that the number of students who have benefited from these rights since the publication of this law should be raised, and these same surveys should be taken as annual, resulting in a report on the reality of early pregnancy and pregnancy in young students. It is also important to consider the extension of social support measures that ensure that mothers and adolescent parents or parents students do not abandon studies due to economic and social conditions, so that they fulfil compulsory education and that, if they so wish, they can pursue their studies at higher levels, preventing maternity and paternity living at these times from becoming a life sentence of social exclusion, unemployment, precariousness and low wages. We therefore propose, because we believe that it is fundamental, that it should be studied and that social support measures should be implemented which guarantee the necessary economic and social support so that mothers and parents can continue their studies. in this proposal that we present we extend the protection to pregnant women, ensuring a special system of shortcomings, in particular to attend prenatal consultations without any harm, as well as to extend to parents the rights existing in law as regards the transfer of educational institution, to enroll in educational establishment outside their area of residence and to have a special time of examinations to be present at delivery, if this coincides with the period of examinations. The approved diploma was an important instrument in support of mothers and parents students. The amendments proposed here improve that same diploma. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u146	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we revisit Law No 90 / 2001, which defines social support measures for mothers and parents students and we discuss possible amendments. This Law represented an important step forward in facilitating the reconciliation between the exercise of parental responsibilities and the education and training of young parents, enabling them to become a family without compromising the continuation of studies and contributing to the reduction of dropout and failure to school. However, since we consider that we can go further in the protection of young parents who want to pursue their studies, we propose three amendments to that law. First of all, we propose extending the rights provided for in Article 3 ( 1 ). the, which now only cover parents and mothers students whose children are up to 3 years old, also those whose children are up to 5 years old. This age also represents the time of entry into pre-school education, up to which a particular follow-up of children by parents is required, making the limitation to 3 years of age an impediment to the continuation of studies. Secondly, we do not consider it sufficient to limit, by establishing a special system of shortcomings, the shortcomings justified for the assistance of children to parents and mothers students with children up to 3 years old. In this regard, labour legislation is broader, allowing to consider the lack as justified in cases of child care provided under 12 years of age, and up to more than 12 years of age, though more restrictive, or regardless of age, the child with disabilities or chronic disease. Thus, we propose an approximation between these two regimes, which is considered justified, for the purposes of this law, the lack of assistance in case of illness or accident, the child under 12 years of age or, regardless of age, the child with disabilities or chronic illness, as well as during the entire period of hospitalization. Finally, we also propose amendments to the current Article 3 ( 2 ). the, in order to ensure that the law allows not only access to the rights envisaged in it to pregnant women and mothers, but also that it covers male persons who are parents, extending their scope to all family models and ensuring that couples of the same sex are not discriminated against in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u148	For an intervention, Mrs Ilda Novo has the floor by the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with its bill, the Left Block says that essentially it aims to correct an injustice: the wording which the 2001 legislator granted to Article 3 (2). the Law No 90 / 2001 of 20 August 2001. In fact, the Left Block defends the amendment of the aforementioned precept by understanding that the special rights provided for in Law No 90/2001 for pregnant women and mothers who are pregnant and who are breast-feeding, as defined in Article 2 of that Act. the, should also be extended to parents, especially to couples and male parents. What do you mean? With all due respect, the iniquity observed by the Left Block is not achieved, nor is it so little that objective inequality between heteroparentality and homoparentity indicated in the project's explanatory statement. In fact, the 2001 legislator intended, « black in white », to deal with what is objectively different in a differentiated way, providing for a set of rights for the special and irreplaceable situation of pregnant students and expectant mothers. Ask yourself: Shouldn’t this careful protection have been welcomed? Is it bad? Is it generating an objective inequality for male couples and for heteroparent parents? The answer can only be negative. We all know that. The Communist Party, not explicitly on the side of the Left Block but walking nearby, projects a remake for the same Article 3 (2). the Law No. 90 / 2001, distinguishing what should be treated differently, is careful to separate, even if artificially, the situation of pregnant students relative to mothers and parents in general. But it is not understood why the special situation of puerperal and lactating mothers was omitted, that the law under review, of the initiative of the Communist Party, better welcomes and protects. In any event, the final suggestion to evaluate and monitor the enforcement of the law seems to be a concern to be taken into account. All added and seen, the CDS is of the opinion that the amendments to Law No 90/2001 proposed by the Bloc and the PAN, which welcomes the BE thesis as regards pregnant students and mothers who are puerperous and lactating, lack justification. The new design designed by the Portuguese Communist Party for the same law, on the other hand, although forced by the Block initiative, presents reasons that in some way support the amendment. In particular, the evaluation of the implementation of the social support measures provided for in the Law is of potential value and can justify and sustain its modification. It will therefore be considered draft law No 423 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), of the PCP. Finally, it should be noted that the opposition or reservations raised by the CDS to the initiatives here under consideration do not translate nor reveal in any way a lack of willingness to study and regulate parental rights, adapting them to present times. Just note the 25 initiatives that made up the legislative package dedicated to demography, birth and family that the CDS has recently brought to the Plenary. The truth is, unfortunately, none of them have received the support they deserve from the left. It's all down. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u150	Mrs Elza Pais of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u151	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In recent years, and with socialist governments, significant steps have been taken in the area of gender equality and in combating discrimination based on sexual orientation. The same legal dignity was attributed to homogenality and heteroparentality, through the adoption of historical laws, including marriage between persons of the same sex and adoption by couples of the same sex. It should also be noted that progress has been made in the field of labour, in particular in parental leave, and the encouragements to men's parents to enjoy and share them. All this, always in the defence of equal treatment and equal rights for parents men and mothers, at the level of responsibilities in the education of their children, the reconciliation between family life and professional life and responsibilities in homo and heteroparentality. However, there are legislative diplomas which, having been approved before this new legal regime, as is the case, do not yet include these principles, which is why they have to be revised and corrected. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group therefore welcomes the proponents. Having said this, the project of the Left Block is unequivocal in relation to this harmonisation, so we do not raise any reservations. As for the draft laws of the PCP and the PAN, although guided by the same principles of valuing the role of parents and mothers in educational processes, we still welcome some reservations that we would like to see discussed and deepened in the specialty. This is always in defense of the equal treatment of parents and mothers who study, at any level of education, from the basic to the upper level, when they have to support and care for their children and their daughters, so that, in this way, and with equal regimes, they can fight, as these initiatives foresee, and with these changes regarding the 2001 diploma, drop-out by promoting the training of young people in a special regime and equal treatment for parents, at the level of failures, examinations, registration and transfer of educational institutions, placing men and women on equal terms before this type of rights and in assuming parental responsibilities for their children and their daughters. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u152	You now have the floor to Mrs. Nilza de Seine.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the projects currently under discussion touch on two topics that are very important to the PSD: support for families and the fight against school dropout and failure. In recent years, the PSD has had several initiatives in the family area, with various support, with packages in the area of birth, which equalized different support and placed incentives for couples who wanted to have children on the agenda. But if there is a flag that the PSD has won a lot in its policies, in the latest legislation, and even with remarkable results, it was the fight against school dropout and failure.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u154	Ui!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u155	Portugal has been able to reduce the qualification deficit of our population in recent years by reducing this rate by 28, 3 % in 2010 to 13, 7 % in 2015. That is why our country is referred positively to in several international reports because it has been able to reduce to half the rate of early abandonment. That is the central issue that we insist on and that the current government puts in danger. This is a way that we must continue to pursue, demand and struggle against failure. But the support that is now being discussed is also important in this area. Combating school dropout is undoubtedly one of the most important ways in this effort to qualify Portuguese. As such, prevention philosophy occupies a central place in combating school dropout, and it is therefore essential to support those parents who, having to reconcile studies, work and child care, may perhaps put the possibility of leaving school. The PSD therefore accompanies the need to ensure educational and educational opportunities of mothers and parents with dependent children, of adolescents who become parents and who should not, as a result, lose their opportunities for the future. These measures now being put for the parents students were already planned for the worker in the Labour Code, which allows "lacks to provide unfeasible and indispensable assistance to children under the age of 12" up to 30 days a year, or even "lacks for assistance to grandchildren". These projects therefore come on that path. It is very important to provide social support to parents students, also strengthening the existing social support network in the student environment, so that these young people feel more confident and secure to continue their studies. The main challenge remains to focus the effort of public action on the quality of education, in order to strengthen the preparation of young people and to sustainably reduce failure and drop out of school. Only in this way are the principles of equality and equal opportunities for all young Portuguese parents and mothers, a concern that must always go hand in hand with the wager in demand and rigour. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u156	You still have the floor to Mrs Diana Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Family Planning Association identifies here, in the consequences of pregnancy and early parenthood in young people, high dropout rates, low levels of education, less qualified jobs, lower rates of professional satisfaction of adolescent mothers. These are the realities that the PCP...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u158	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u159	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, these are the realities that the CFP proposed to fight when it presented a bill in 2001. The proposals that we are presenting today also go so far as to combat these realities that still persist and which, of course, must be eradicated.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u160	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u161	And it is also important that what is in law and what happens, in law, in the future,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u162	You really have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u163	... is carried out in life, with the means necessary for its fulfilment, and of course, investment is required for it. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u164	Mrs. Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u165	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I understand from your speech that Mrs Ilda Novo is still stuck at that time when taking care of her children was only the thing of women and men had nothing to do with it. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u166	And the justification is precisely there! It is that justification is to guarantee parents the same possibility and the same responsibility in the education and care of children. But if you need a more sensitive example and you understand better, I mean one of those who arrived at our Parliamentary Group, a widowed father who cannot perform the tests in special times because he is a father and one who has the only responsibility with the child. Perhaps with this example, the honourable Member understands better and thus is justified. I also wanted to greet the other two bills, referring, however, to the PCP project, which I have some doubts, because, by dividing rights for pregnant women and then for parents and mothers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u167	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u168	... consider that pregnant women are entitled to a special failure scheme or to take special examinations for the purpose of prenatal consultations, but incomprehensiblely withdraw this right from parents,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u169	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u170	...as if parents did not have to participate, from the outset, in the process, through the follow-up of women in prenatal visits or consultations. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u171	Mrs. Members, we have reached the end of the joint debate, in general, of the projects of lein.o 326 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), 423 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and 424 / XIII ( 2. ( a). We move on to the last item on the agenda today, with the debate on draft resolution No 586/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The ratification by the Portuguese State of the United Nations International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families ( adopted by Resolution No 45 / 158 of the General Assembly of 18 December 1990 ). To present the draft resolution, Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The United Nations General Assembly has already approved an International Convention on the Protection of Migrant Workers and Their Families in 1990. The International Convention entered into force in 2003, when the necessary number of State ratifications were concluded for its entry into force. This Convention is particularly important, it has worked for many years with the active participation of the Portuguese State in its preparation and is in line with other instruments of international law, particularly within the framework of the ILO. This is an international convention which considers migrant workers subject to international law, provides for the cooperation of the various States with a view to the recognition of minimum rights for these workers in the countries where they are welcomed and provides for active cooperation by States in the fight against international labour trafficking networks, in the sense of repression and combating such networks but of protection of those who are their victims, giving them dignified reception conditions in the countries where they are, protecting them and protecting their families. This is therefore a particularly important instrument of international law and what is regretted is that, having been approved in the early 1990s with the active participation of the Portuguese State and having been in force at the international level since 2003, the Portuguese State has not yet taken the necessary measures to ratify it. It should be borne in mind that Portugal now has particular responsibilities for the functioning and dignity of the United Nations, for reasons which even I am willing to list here, so Portugal should set an example in this area, not only at a time when in Europe there are winds of xenophobia and racism in relation to migrants, but also in which we witness daily demonstrations and expressions of hostility towards immigrant citizens in various countries of Europe. It was therefore very important for Portugal to give a clear signal of its commitment to the integration of immigrants and to combating these phenomena of racism and xenophobia. To that end, the ratification of the United Nations International Convention for the Protection of Migrant Workers and Their Families is of great importance in our view and what we propose to this House is that I ask the Government to send for approval by this Parliament and for ratification by the Portuguese State the Convention which Portugal has already signed in the United Nations for several years and which, unfortunately, has not yet obtained ratification by the Portuguese State. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u173	Mr Cesario has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This draft resolution of the Portuguese Communist Party is a project with great significance, both politically and in terms of form, either with regard to its content, from the outset because it is a Convention which has taken a long time to enter into force. It is a very complex matter — we recognise it — which has caused a wide range of debates, a wide range of discussions, but which, indeed, concerns issues that have to do with around 230 million people all over the world. It is the estimated number of migrants worldwide, of which about 1 %, i.e. 2, 3 million, are born exactly in Portugal. It is a matter of great complexity, I repeat, but which closes great dramas. We all remember the problems of undocumented people, many of them Portuguese nationals, such as us, the dramas of refugees, the dramas that have to do with forced labor, after all, many of these people live in situations of almost slavery. We therefore recognise the importance of this issue, a subject, I repeat, delicate, but which, of course, deserves our attention. Of course there is political significance here, because the Portuguese Communist Party, by presenting this resolution in order to urge the Government to bring, once and for all, the draft of the Convention itself to this House, is translating its mistrust of the government itself,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u175	... it is manifesting itself that the natural dialogue between parties that are part of the same parliamentary front is not working. [[BE's protests.]] And that's what we can't help but emphasize. There will perhaps be a desire here to integrate the Executive. Today, we know that the Portuguese Communist Party has heard the Deputy Minister, Eduardo Cabrita, and naturally it manifests itself here in order to embrace areas such as external relations, foreign affairs, employment or work. Whatever it is, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a serious matter, worthy of great thought and, given all the time since this Convention entered into force, of course, that the Parliamentary Group of the Democratic Social Party will vote favourably in order to urge the Executive to speed up this process as quickly as possible. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u176	Mr Pisco has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u177	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I should like to start by expressing some strangeness about some of the positions taken here, perhaps by not knowing some of these matters. I would like to say that for us, migrant workers and their families already find proper protection in national and Community legislation and in many international conventions, treaties and agreements that we are signatories to and where the rights contained in the United Nations Convention are listed here under discussion. This is, in fact, an issue of honour for any civilised country, which is clearly present in the guiding principles of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, reflecting also the coherence of a country like ours, with vast immigrant communities scattered around the world. Respect for fundamental rights and the protection of decent and equal treatment that we want for the Portuguese immigrants, in the European Union or in any other country should not be different from what we should provide to the foreign citizens who choose Portugal to live and work. Despite this Convention being the least ratified among the nine fundamentals on human rights, it is no longer a relevant instrument to combat all kinds of discrimination and to defend the rights of migrant workers in terms of integration and working conditions, access to health services, education, housing, justice and others. And it is never too much to highlight the defence of these rights, especially when we see in many countries a weakening of social protection models and the limitation of rights associated with work, residence, access to public services and conditions of integration for foreign citizens. The phenomena of labour exploitation and even schemes of almost slavery, or slavery, exist in many countries, even in the European Union,... [[CDS-PP protests.]] ... and Portugal is also not immune to this phenomenon that it is essential to fight without hesitation or hesitation. However, the problem will not be placed so much at the level of legal instruments or institutional responses to the protection of migrant workers but, rather, at the level of their effectiveness in terms of reception and integration and in the fight against unscrupulous employers, who take advantage of their situation of fragility, effort, in which the government is clearly committed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Naturally, in this area it is always possible to go further in compliance with the laws and in improving the procedures, which does not prevent us — it is important to underline it — that Portugal is already internationally recognized as a good example in terms of policies for the integration and reception of immigrants. On the other hand, it must be considered that the Convention here under discussion is only subscribed by countries outside the European Union, precisely because there is already a considerable legal arsenal within the Community covering the acquis de droits which it states, ranging from treaties to instruments such as the Charter of Fundamental Rights and the Charter of Social Rights and various Community directives and regulations. It would therefore not be advised for Portugal to leave alone for ratification of a Convention requiring the simultaneous commitment of all the other Member States,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u178	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u179	... in order to prevent the common rules in these areas from being affected, even more so without any further gain in terms of defending the rights of migrant workers and their families. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u180	Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate is no longer than the repetition of a debate held in this House in 2008. I repeat : a debate held in this House in 2008. in this same debate, held nine years ago, the Portuguese Communist Party already recommended to the Government exactly the same: the ratification of the International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families, of the United Nations. Nine years later, I repeat, nine years later, on the one hand, the consistent exercise of the Communist Party is true, but there is also an exercise that continues to be harmless and gone. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] The CDS said in 2008 — and it maintains today in 2017 — that our responsibility advised, and continues to advise, a common position of the European Union,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u182	What about Hungary? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u183	... that the responses should be global, concerted and properly articulated. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Member States, Portugal should, in our view, maintain the same caution and should not rush into unilateral ratification. From 2008 to today, there has not been a single European country that ratified this Convention. In 27 years there was not a single country in the European Union that did so, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. This fact alone should make us reflect on the effectiveness and adequacy of this instrument. In addition, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, since the last time we discussed this initiative — I repeat, in 2008 — Community directives have been transposed, the law of foreigners has been amended and there is no recommendation of this Convention which is no longer properly protected by the Portuguese legal system. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Europe has lived recently, and still lives, the biggest humanitarian crisis since World War II. That is also why we have the greatest doubts that this international instrument, despite its good intentions, fits the times of 2017. Crisis as we live is only fought with global responses, with collective responses. Any unilateral response...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u184	Is the United Nations Convention unilateral? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u185	...or isolated will be destined for failure. The Government may and should use its diplomacy together and within the JAI Council (Justice and Home Affairs) to achieve this collective response. That is your duty, that is what you want, and that is what you want the government to be able to do. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u186	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We consider this proposal of the Portuguese Communist Party very important and very timely. I would like to say this with this clarity, because that is how we evaluate it. The International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families, of the United Nations, adopted in 1990, is an international legal instrument that stands out by its humanist brand: it gives priority to the protection of the dignity of people over all administrative, security, economic and legal reasons, whatever it may be. For this Convention no one is illegal in that no one can be diminished of his fundamental rights because he is in an irregular or undocumented condition. That's a sign of clarity and courage. Undocumented migrants are the most vulnerable to all kinds of exploitation and abuse. Therefore, recognizing and applying their fundamental rights is the only way to prevent the double victimization of these people. In view of this, I confess my perplexity when I see the CDS bench saying there is caution; when I see the Socialist Party bench the idea that it is not necessary because there are already Community rules that solve the problem. Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, if Portuguese citizens emigrants in other countries do not see their recognised rights, is it prudent that you speak to the host countries of our citizens? Are you going to say that the Community legal order already solves all the problems? Is that what you're going to say? No, it's not, of course! And if we defend the rights of our migrants out there, we must have the clarity and honesty to defend the rights of immigrants in our own country. That's how it must be! [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u188	This Convention is therefore Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, a challenge to the coherence of a state like Portuguese. A country that likes, and well, to see and present itself as a host of those who leave their country so that their lives and dignity, here, are respected, can only be a country that is a friend of this Convention and a friend of the rights of migrant workers worldwide. Portugal must therefore ratify this Convention and must be consistent with this ratification, respecting in practice the rights of all migrant workers seeking our country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u189	Mr António Filipe of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u190	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like, on behalf of the CFP bench, to congratulate myself from the point of view of the positions expressed by the various parties on the adoption of this draft resolution. Mr Cesario said that there was some mistrust of the government in office. Mr President, since the Portuguese State signed this Convention in the United Nations, nine governments have already passed through this country, headed by Aníbal Cavaco Silva, by Antonio Guterres, by José Manuel Durão Barroso, by José Socrates, by Pedro Passos Coelho. Therefore, several governments have passed since signature in the United Nations and since entry into force in 2003 several governments have also passed internationally. Mr Cesário has done very well to draw attention to an issue, also highlighted here by Mr José Manuel Pureza: it is that this Convention does not only concern immigrants, with i, non-national citizens who are in Portugal, but also concerns all Portuguese immigrants who have sought better living conditions in other countries. It's all they're talking about. The gentlemen. Members also did well to stress the role that the Portuguese State should play in defending that Portuguese are treated with dignity in the countries where they live when they do not live in Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u191	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u192	Mr. Deputies, you have greatly exceeded your time. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u193	I'm sorry, Mr. President. In conclusion, I would hope that this resolution could be adopted unanimously. It is regrettable that it is not, but we hope that there will still be a reflection until tomorrow, until the vote. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-02.u194	Mrs. Members, we have reached the end of the discussion of draft resolution No 586/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a). Tomorrow the plenary session will start at 10 a.m. with the following agenda: from the first point there is a debate with the Government on the priorities of the Maltese Presidency in the European Council. In the second point, the proposal for law No 57 / XIII ( 2 ) will generally be considered. ( a ) — Sets minimum requirements for the protection of workers against the risks to safety and health to which they are or may be subject due to exposure to electromagnetic fields during work and transposes Directive 2013 / 35 / EU, the European Parliament and the Council of 26 June 2013. The third point follows the general discussion of Bill No 58 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — establishes the principles and rules of cross-border exchange of information relating to the practice of road offences in a Member State and transposes Directive 2015 / 413 / EU. In the fourth point, law No 59/ XIII will be discussed in general ( 2 ). ( a ) — adapts to the domestic legal system the obligations arising from Decision 2008 / 615 / JHA and Decision 2008 / 616 / JHA, which executes it as the data transmission of the vehicle registration for the purposes of detection and investigation of criminal offences. In the fifth point, the motions for resolutions Nos 44 / XIII ( 2 ) are scheduled without due time. ( a ) — Approves the Headquarters Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Organization of Ibero-American States for Education, Science and Culture, signed in Lisbon on 4 October 2016, and 45 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the amendments to the Agreement on the Establishment of the Common Fund for Commodities adopted by the Governing Council on 10 December 2014. Finally, there will be a vote on the Rules of Procedure. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 20 minutes.]]
