ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 10 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of authority to open the galleries. Mrs. Members of today's agenda include, by marking the PSD, the general discussion of draft law No 367 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates the legal regime of the former municipal councils ( PSD ) together with draft resolutions 450 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the valuation and regulation of older universities ( PSD ), 487 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption and implementation of a national plan of action for positive ageing ( PSD ) and 605 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the inclusion of pain and geriatric studies in their curricular programmes ( PSD ) with higher education institutions in the field of health. You have the floor, to speak an intervention, Mrs Teresa Morais.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: « Children should be taught to respect the elderly. The elderly should not be forgotten, should not be humiliated, should not be mistreated, should not be subjected to violence. Perhaps starting to teach this to our children is the first step” — these words are from João Gorjão Clara, professor of medicine and coordinator of the Center of Geriatric Studies of the Portuguese Society of Internal Medicine. And this can indeed be an essential step: to teach to respect older people. But there are other steps and measures that we parliamentarians can and should take to promote in Portugal a culture of true promotion of the rights of older people, those who have gained the most knowledge and experience throughout their lives and who deserve due return from the community, especially at the most advanced stage of their journey. Without paternalism, but before, defending to the limit their self-determination and autonomy, without little charity, but rather, fighting for everything that they really have right, without the infantilization to which we often watch in their follow-up, but with all consideration by the most experienced adults and to whom age adds some limitations that we must be able to compensate up to the border of possible. It is a contribution to this debate, which must be truly national, which we are bringing here today, proposing as a topic the protection and promotion of the rights of the elderly, to which we have associated four legislative initiatives. First of all, I refer to the most comprehensive of all: the draft resolution that recommends the Government to approve and implement a national plan of action for positive ageing, a designation that aims to emphasize the need to view aging as a natural and permanent process resulting from a civilizational conquest and progress that adds life to people's time. We do not see this plan as a mere statement of general strategic principles, but as a true script for a public intervention concerted with all sectors involved, in matters in which it must act together, covering areas ranging from security and justice to education and health, passing through the planning of the territory, accessibility, education, culture and the exercise of citizenship, in a set of 14 sectoral areas duly articulated. This plan should have a medium-term duration ( 8 to 10 years ), be provided with concrete measures, timed, with performance indicators, monitored permanently and subject to interim reports and external and independent final evaluation. We defend a holistic view of aging and of the answers that it requires of an advanced nation, which does not sum up a care policy based on the areas of custom, which does not treat older people as a category of the separated and diminished population. We defend a policy that values and integrates the experience and participation of older people as a benefit to the whole community. And it is in this sense that we also present a bill that aims to create the legal regime of the municipal council elders, the advisory body of the municipalities, which allows the participation and intervention of any citizen or senior citizen in the discussion on the policies of the municipality in general and, in particular, those that are particularly concerned with them. It is proposed that this body should be able to adopt opinions and recommendations, draw up proposals for action and decide on various matters of relevance for the lives of municipalities, creating the opportunity of intervention for all and all those who wish to continue to exercise their citizenship and even encourage this exercise, with secure benefit to the whole community. A reality that causes perplexity is the fact that the study of pain does not deserve the existence of a specific discipline in several courses in the area of health, with the topic being dealt with in a dispersed or not even addressed manner. Likewise, it is not justified that geriatrics are not yet compulsory study material for all those who attend courses in the field of health, contrary to what happens in the overwhelming majority of the countries of the European Union. That is why we recommend that the Government promote with higher education institutions the inclusion of geriatrics and pain studies in curricular programs of all health courses. Therefore, it is not a matter of defending only greater training for professionals already in operation, nor of creating a managerial specialty, which we know has generated such controversy in the past that has just blocked this possibility. It is a matter of defending the incorporation of these matters into the basic training of all professionals across the board. We also recommend that the Government regulate the old universities, entities that today play an absolutely important role in the inclusion, learning and interaction of this wide range of the population. We well know that, after the first version of this project was introduced, the Government was quick to adopt a resolution on the subject. But that's not enough. It is necessary to regulate its functioning and to really value the action of senior universities by means of concrete measures. Portugal today has more than 20 % of people aged 65 or older and is expected to have more than one third of its population in this age group in 2050. The country is not prepared for this reality at many levels and it is imperative that it give priority to the creation of conditions to respond properly to this situation now and to design from now on the public policies and means that enable it to act effectively on a trendly aggravated circumstance in the coming years. This preparation also requires the awareness that we must promote a more personalized culture free of massification. Each elderly person is a different person with the right to his or her individuality and to the free development of his or her personality until his or her last day of life. The elimination of discrimination, the prevention of ill-treatment and the protection of their security are also absolutely priority lines for this objective! And now that time is approaching for such reflections, more old people’s friendly cities are being promoted! in the Global Guide of the Cities Friends of Older Persons, published a few years ago by the Fundação Calouste Gulbenkian, there are several statements with great interest, some of which can make us reflect on everything we need to do in this matter. Says one of them: "The traffic lights were made for Olympic athletes! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Says another: “Look at us as if our ‘validation date’ had expired.” Let us therefore respect the times of the oldest! And let us take our time so that we can better defend and promote your rights! [[Congrats from the PSD and the CDS-PP Member Isabel Galriza Neto.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u3	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs. Idália Salvador Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u4	Mr President, Mrs Teresa Morais, I have listened carefully to your statement. We all know the demographic reality of Portugal and Europe, in fact, we have known the demographic reality of Portugal many years ago and it is not only the tendency of our population to grow up, the tendency to increasingly have fewer children, the families to choose to have fewer children and, therefore, to have our population over 65 years old growing so that we should not be indifferent and should leave us concerned. Mrs Deputy, I would say even a bit strange, this concern and this speech about the elderly. It is that the honourable Member is part of a political family that has been in the government for four years, before the government that is currently in office, which has completely disrespected our elderly and our families,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...that was actually little or no friend of our elderly and our families. There were cuts in pensions, cuts in the solidarity complement for the elderly, cuts in social income of insertion and the elderly to support entire families, because it was often to the house of these elderly that families returned—because many of the family members were in a state of unemployment—and they began to enjoy the only income they had after their active age. Nor is it any wonder that the Member of Parliament and the PSD Group have come to propose a number of initiatives which are being worked on by the Government. In fact, the questions that I would like to leave you, Mrs Deputies, go in that direction. I would say that it is strange, strange and even touching that you now suddenly remember the elderly. Madam Member, let me tell you something else that I think is extraordinary. You have come to propose a national plan for positive ageing and it is extraordinary to propose a timetable and implementation, the designation of a coordinating public body, the preparation of a plan of activities, the guidance and follow-up of the measures — which also propose to be listed —, biennial periodic assessments and final reports. It is no longer curious that they now come with the concern of making a plan, because, I remember, one of the great flags of the PSD Government and the CDS, which has so mistreated the elderly and Portuguese families, was a familiar social emergency plan that has never passed from a mere intention of the Government to which the honourable Member and her party belonged. And, Mrs Deputy, I remind you that this social emergency plan had two high moments; one was a speech made in the Amadora by the Minister who protected the area of social security and the second was a PowerPoint presented to the officials. There was never a strategic document! They never set goals, they never quantified themselves, they never defined themselves responsible for their execution and there was never an evaluation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u5	Don't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u6	The Members of the Socialist Party and the other political forces have certainly asked for evaluation reports several times, but your Government has never done so! And now it comes, in this moving way, to tell the Government to make a social intervention plan. Yeah, I wanted to tell you, Mrs. Member,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u7	And do they? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u8	The work is under way, there have already been two meetings. My colleagues will also have the opportunity to give you information on the other proposals put forward by the PSD. Madam Member, it is public, meetings have already been held, the work is under way and, in good time, will certainly be presented the strategic documents, the ones responsible for their implementation and the moments of evaluation. These four proposals presented by the PSD here are, on the one hand, in some way inconsistent with what you have never done, they have never wanted to do or have never been able to do, but on the other hand, they are redundant in relation to what the government is already doing. [[PSD protests.]] Madam Member, I would like to leave you two questions. The first is this: why did you, while you were in government, never make a plan? Why didn't they want to? Or why were they incapable of doing? And why is it that, now, with the work of the current government - and you must know perfectly well that the government is developing these initiatives - we are here trying to raise awareness and pass the message to the Portuguese people that they are very friends with the elderly? Why, Mrs. Deputy? [[PSD protests.]] Then, Mrs Deputies, I would like you to clarify the phrase that I said a little ago: 'It is now approaching a time that is conducive to these reflections'. Just now, Mrs. Member? Oh, my God! For the Socialist Party, the elderly, social intervention with the elderly and the social protection of the elderly were always a concern. Why only now, Your Honor? Oh, my God! Why are we on the verge of autarchic elections? Oh, my God! Why did the PSD leave the government? Oh, my God! Tell us, Your Honor! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u9	As is customary in these cases, the Bureau is left out of normal regiment time, because it cuts the overall time of the PS Parliamentary Group and will thus make requests for clarification. You have the floor to request clarification from Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u10	Mr President, Mrs Teresa Morais, I would like to point out the beginning of her speech, in which she spoke about respect for the elderly when her Government, the PSD and the CDS, did exactly the opposite and disrespected the elderly.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u11	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u12	She spoke in the gallery about defending the rights of the elderly, but what her Government was able to do well was to overstep the rights of the elderly, pensioners and pensioners. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]] Madam Member, we realize the exercise that the PSD is here trying to do, which is an exercise of whitening of its responsibilities when they were government and when they have actively contributed to a deepening of the living conditions of the elderly and the reformed. The concern that Mrs Deputies says she has and the concern of the PSD, as a government, with the elderly has been translated into court in pensions and social benefits, for example in the solidarity with the elderly, it has been reflected in the fact that thousands of pensioners, thousands of elderly people have been thrown into poverty. In fact, it is important to remember here that the impoverishment of pensioners, pensioners and the elderly gains new and more serious dimensions exactly during these four years, with the breakdown in their incomes, resulting from the cuts that their government has made—in fact, often, pensions were the only source of income for the vast majority of the elderly. His Government's concern with the elderly also reflected an increase in spending on health, transport and other essential goods and services. This reflects the concern of the PSD and also of the CDS with the elderly. During these four years, situations of loneliness and isolation of the elderly were deepened, associated with extreme poverty, migratory flows and even desertification of regions of the country. It is also important to remember that, indeed, your intention was to impose definitive cuts in pensions...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u13	Now, remember!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u14	... and that this has only not been achieved because, in fact, the Constitutional Court has led to the law that you have created, and it is therefore important to recall this action as well.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u16	Mrs Teresa Morais, I would like to ask you: where was the concern of the PSD with the elderly when they voted against the PCP proposal that extinguished the extraordinary contribution of solidarity? Where was this concern when the PSD closed fundamental public services and proximity, leaving so many and so many elderly people without the possibility of resorting to these services, to which they were entitled, insulating them even more?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u17	How many? Tell me one!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u18	Where was this concern, when the PSD voted against the PCP proposal for the valuation of long-contributory careers?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u19	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u20	A proposal guaranteeing the right to a pension without any penalties or reductions, regardless of age, to workers with 40 years of discount. Where was the concern of the PSD when they rejected the proposal that the PCP brought to this House to ensure, with the creation of an intermodal pass, a 50% discount on its value to citizens over 65 years old or in a state of disability or old retirement? Where was the concern of the PSD with the elderly at that time?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u21	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u22	I wasn't, Mrs. Deputy! It was not when they were in the government and it is not today, because in fact, what they want with the proposals they put forward, which do not solve the structural problems of the situation of the elderly and the pensioners in our country, is to use them as a tool to clean up and clear up your responsibilities while they were four years in the government and attacked the rights of the elderly, pensioners and pensioners.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the increase of the average life expectancy is a civilizational achievement and cannot be an excuse to impose a social regression for the current and future reformed, pensioners and the elderly! The commitment we have made here is, in fact, to ensure the ageing of rights, which is made with policies that respond to the structural problems. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u25	In response to requests for clarification, Mrs Teresa Morais has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for the questions from the PS and PCP benches. Let me tell you, Mrs Idália Serra, that when I realized that it was the Member who would question me, I had the vain hope that the question was serious.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u27	A compliment!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u28	The honourable Member has used us to a record of some seriousness and therefore hoped that his intervention could have that characteristic. Unfortunately you didn't, and I'm telling you why you didn't. It is because the honourable Member calls to my intervention « strange», she considers it to be « strange»...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u29	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u30	...and come to make a set of accusations to the former Government and praise what your government supposedly has done in this regard. I would like to remind you that the PSD proposal on the national plan of action for positive ageing has entered Parliament on 29 September. The government's order that creates only one working group to study the subject is October 17. Therefore, when the government decided to set up a working group that would one day produce a report which might have given rise to a plan this proposal was already handed over and even had the ability to inspire the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u31	It was a coincidence!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u32	See there, Mrs Deputies, that the government has even taken advantage of a rather unusual expression so far — a sign that, of course, it can only have been inspired by this project — when it says that it is necessary to make aging a positive experience! Look at that, Mrs. Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u33	Where have I heard this? Oh, my God! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u34	So the government did the following: it agreed with a CDS-PP initiative that provided for a strategy that you unfairly dropped.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u35	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u36	He woke up again with the existence of a national plan of action for positive aging, which has a much larger scope, which aims to address the problem of aging in a much more holistic way, complete, addressing the problem in various ways, and not ultimately, as does the government's office, which makes the Ministry of Health coordinate the working group, and which is a joint dispatch signed by three ministries of the following areas: autarchies—see there that they have no concern with the authorities at this time..., social security and health. Therefore, it is the usual settlement for the care and health areas, because you lack the vision of citizenship as a whole in relation to the issue of positive aging, which you cannot see! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u37	The cuts in pensions and wages were also an integrated view...!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u38	And, Mrs. Member, we don't just remember each other now. And when we use the expression that is now the time to reflect in particular, it is not to reflect in particular on the problem of aging, which, moreover, we have put on the political agenda for many years! When I refer to the particular moment, I refer to the friendly cities of the elderly. And the honourable Member must know what this is because, in the time when she was Secretary of State, she also wanted there to be friendly cities of children, which, moreover, never came out of the paper...!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u39	You're ill-informed, you need to know better, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u40	Therefore, Mrs Deputy, we understand this matter. The Government would do well to derive practical and concrete consequences from those proposed by the PSD bench, instead of rapidly approving a working group whose coordinator neither knows nor knows what it is, nor what it is doing.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u41	It doesn't exist!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u42	Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, to point out with this argument that it is not worth having this debate is at least unfortunate on your part and on the part of your bench. Mrs Diana Ferreira, Mrs Ferreira, who, of course, uses it — it is legitimate — to put on the table all the proposals that the Communist Party has made in the past, what it does in this House is an exercise that we are already used to, the tactic is always the same.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u43	Then I should have the answer well prepared!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u44	The gentlemen. Members have no political space for any more today. They have no political space for an intervention with a vision of the future!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u45	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u46	The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen are tied to a government and they have no political space! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]] They have no political space for more! Therefore, Madam Member, your bench today does not have the commitment it has made and the complicity it has with the measures of this government — but nothing else to do but look at the past and criticize the previous government; it is your only strategy! But I will also tell you one thing, Mrs. Member: the problem of always repeating the same tactic... [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u47	The one about the increase in pensions?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u48	...is that she becomes absolutely predictable and useless, there is no effect, Mrs. Member! And you know why? It is that, Mrs Deputy, your bench has no more legitimacy than mine to propose what you understand. No one here is the owner of no topic! No bench in this Parliament is the owner of any subject and any debate! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, you have no shame in your face!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u50	And I don't run away to your question, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. [[PCP protests.]] I didn't run away to your question, to know where the PSD was. The PSD was in the government solving the problems and closing the holes the Socialist Party left there. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] The PSD was in the government paying for the debts that socialists have contracted and that are already growing at an amazing rate. The PSD was in the government...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u51	Doing everything the opposite!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u52	... to adopt a resolution on the status of the elderly, which you have cast in this Parliament!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u53	And cutting off the reforms!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u54	The PSD has recently been preparing proposals under 1. the Commission, which you have plunged, without pain or pity. And why? It is that your attitude is passier, revenger and preconceived! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u55	You have two further requests for clarification. Before giving the floor, first of all, to Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, I would ask for silence. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u56	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we welcome the PSD on the subject chosen for today's debate in an area — it has already been justly remembered here — that the CDS-PP has taken as a political priority, effective and transversal to various areas of society. in this sense, we must not fail to remember today a number of initiatives which we have presented in June 2016 and which have been accompanied by other initiatives, even outside this Parliament, which have resulted — because of our insistence, we should also remember — in the recommendations of this Parliament, in particular with regard to strengthening the teaching of palliative care and strengthening the teaching of geriatrics. In this regard, I recall Resolution No 4 / 2017. I also remember that there have been so many other initiatives that have been sadly rejected by banks that today call for enormous legitimacy to defend measures on aging and on which we will again speak. [[CDS-PP applause.]] For us, increasing longevity effectively represents a significant gain for the whole society and aging cannot be seen as a social burden. And if it is true that we have gained more longevity, it is also true that the same cannot be said about the life expectancy, with health, of the elderly, in which the Portuguese results are not so encouraging. Even yesterday, on a visit with the President of our party to a hospital in Lisbon, we could see that the elderly continue to be the predominant part of the hospitalized people, with increasingly numerous diseases and therefore with a burden of disease that obviously impairs aging with more quality. What we also wanted to remember is that we clearly assumed the responsibilities of the decisions we made in a time of financial assistance that had to happen because some, today present and so silent on this matter, left us on the brink of bankruptcy. Therefore, the elderly do not forget why this period happened either. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u57	The fact is that we have not crystallized in the past and have not lost any kind of legitimacy to make concrete proposals about the present and the future. in this measure, we regret until the passodist discourse of other benches and which, purely and simply, represents a disrespect to the elderly who can no longer count on nothing but an animated debate about pass-backs, without concrete and effective proposals about the present and the future. [[CDS-PP applause.]] To conclude, therefore, by focusing my concerns on the support of the elderly in the field of health, and they are the most numerous groups of people who are hospitalized in our hospitals, who need specific follow-up and a new preparation of health professionals, especially doctors, I would like to ask the honourable Member — congratulating her again on the subject that brings us today — how this priority can be achieved, since there is already a resolution by the Assembly of the Republic in this matter on a proposal from the CDS. I also ask if you do not see with concern the volume of debts in the National Health Service, which capture and kidnap you in what may be your best support function in the social state that we all want to operate. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u58	Mr Carla Cruz of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Teresa Morais, the PSD brings to the debate a number of initiatives on ageing, which in the past was 'active' and now 'positive' — look at it! The honourable Member said in the gallery that the initiatives they presented were not mere announcements. Madam Member, nothing more false, because, the plan or proposed plan presented are just a set of generalities and statements! This is because of concrete proposals to solve the problems of the elderly, especially the problems the elderly face in the area of health, which is zero there!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u60	That's executive function! The government is implementing the plan, not Parliament!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u61	But let us look at concrete examples that are there and that demonstrate what is the final objective of this debate, which is, as has already been said by my comrade Diana Ferreira, whitening and cleaning up the responsibilities they have in the situation with which the elderly face access to health. [[PCP applause.]] It says this plan that «... has been recognized the importance of active aging (...) for strengthening health...», but have forgotten to correct for « positive aging ». And he also says that «... if we want a more developed society(...) we have to (... ) try to increase the average life expectancy, accompanying it with the best possible health... ». Madam Member, nothing more hypocritical when we look at the concerns and policies they had with regard to health! What was the concern of the PSD when it made a brutal increase in moderate rates that prevented patients from accessing consultations?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u62	Exactly! That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u63	And when did you remove the exemption from chronic patients, which are, in your overwhelming majority, elderly patients and with which you are concerned today? Where was the concern of the PSD when it changed the non-emergency transport model of patients who prevented many of them from going to consultations, treatments, medical examinations? Where were the PSD's concerns when they closed proximity services, Mrs. Member, and prevented these patients from going to such consultations, which would prevent them from being for emergency services? Mrs Deputy, on the pain, is the patient's major concern not to be trained? We are concerned, in fact, that we do not have access to the most appropriate therapy, to the follow-up of professionals. But where was the PSD's concern about this matter? It hasn't been one in the last four years! On the contrary, they hampered the access and life of the health professionals who accompanied these patients. Madam Member, let us go back to the present: where are the concerns of the PSD in solving these concrete problems? The CFP, in this legislature, presented concrete proposals that would solve the lives of these patients.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u64	All right, all right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u65	And how was the PSD? It voted against, when we put forward proposals to revoke the gate closing proximity services and hospitals! He voted against, when we presented a project that revoked the office of his government, PSD and CDS, which promoted the closure and declassification of proximity emergencies! You voted against it when we put forward proposals for the public reinforcement of continued care! And now they're so worried about the PSD? Oh, my God! They are hypocritical and demagogic concerns to clear up the responsibilities they have in the situation of patients in Portugal. [[PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u66	In reply, Mrs Teresa Morais has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u67	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, I would like to thank you for your question and for the nature of your previous intervention. The recognition of the importance of this debate coming from the honourable Member, knowing what he knows about these matters, is particularly comfortable. Therefore, I would like to tell you, on the specific question which you are asking, that I believe that the resolution that has already been adopted must be implemented, but that can only be achieved through a dialogue between the Government, universities and other higher education institutions, since the introduction of these matters and creation is not what we propose, but it was the proposal of the CDS — a possible specialty must be agreed with both the universities and the orders involved here. We cannot overstep university autonomy by imposing that these disciplines are mandatory. What we hope is that the Government will in fact do its part by promoting a debate with the organisations involved, in particular, to introduce these matters on the basis of the preparation and study of professionals and that it will do so with universities in order to raise awareness of those in which these matters do not yet exist. in recent years something has progressed both in the area of geriatrics and in the context of the study of pain, as the honourable Member knows better than I do, but the truth is that the Observatory of Pain itself, which was created in the meantime, recognizes that in at least 25% of the courses in the field of health pain is not even addressed and in others it is addressed in a dispersed and avulsive way, without a specific discipline in which this matter is integrated in the preparation of these professionals. Yes, Mrs. Member, I am very concerned about the volume of debts in the National Health Service. The former government, which, moreover, had an excellent minister who the PS now remembered to go looking for « health care » to the General Deposit Box, worked hard in this regard, paid many of the debts left by the former Socialist Government. But, unfortunately, we are witnessing an increasing indebtedness of the National Health Service, which obviously challenges its sustainability. You are therefore quite right about that concern that I follow. As for Mrs Carla Cruz's question, the honourable Member will excuse me for saying so, it is no disrespect, but it is more than that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u68	Oh, is it? Oh, my
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u69	Are you going to run away again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u70	The PCP can't do anything else.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u71	If it were for that, I wouldn't mark a power schedule!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u72	The CFP is obsessed with opposing the previous government because it has no possibility today, nor any political space to make a difference.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u73	You're scared!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u74	And since he cannot attack the current government, because even if he did not agree with his measures he could not do it, turn back, he has a retrograde speech...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u75	But answer it in concrete!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u76	...and come here with an acidic conversation,... [[PCP protests.]] ... I repeat, with an acidic conversation, full of Azedume, trying, once again, to challenge the legitimacy of a debate that we have every right to do. [[PCP protests.]] Mrs. Member, I'll tell you... [[Protests from PCP MP Carla Cruz.]] Mrs. Member, if you let me talk... I need to manage my time! The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen use yours to yell and let me clarify, okay?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u77	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u78	Madam Member, let me tell you the following: The honourable Member says that it was by mistake that we used the expression 'active ageing'! No, Mrs. Member, that's ignorance! « Active ageing» is an expression consensualized and used by the World Health Organization, whose derogation we do not propose! We propose the introduction into the vocabulary of this subject, as many experts today do, of a more comprehensive expression involving matters related to the full exercise of the citizenship of the elderly. This is no mistake! Mrs. Deputy is that you are ignorant, you will excuse me for telling you! [[PCP protests, hitting hands on the tops of the benches.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u79	It is a hypocritical policy and it is demagogic concerns!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u80	The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen accept that a Member...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u81	Mrs Teresa Morais, will you excuse me?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u82	Surely, Mr. President, I am waiting and thanking you for counting time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u83	I wanted to ask all the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind Mrs Teresa Morais that there is some terminology that should not be used in the parliamentary debate. [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u84	That's right, Mr. President! You are quite right, Mr President, I am only surprised that Mr President did not make the same comment when Mrs Carla Cruz called me a hypocrite. But we're in full agreement! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u85	No one's offended her!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u86	Have shame on your face!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u87	Mrs Teresa Morais, let me tell you this: I do not have two criteria!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u88	Great!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u89	I did not call to the attention of Mrs PCP's Member because, not speaking to the microphone, I did not hear the words she spoke. Mrs. Teresa Morais was speaking to the microphone, so my comment. But I don't have two criteria! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u90	All right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u91	Mrs Teresa Morais, if Mrs Carla Cruz used these expressions, I use exactly the same criterion.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u92	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u93	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u94	Mr President, in fact, the honourable Member has called me a hypocrite, but it will be registered on top!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u95	No, you didn't! [[Protests from PCP MP Carla Cruz.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u96	I won't waste any more time on that, Mrs. Member! I'm going to answer your question directly, which was to know what the concern of the PSD was and what the PSD has been doing in recent times. I'm going to go back, I'm not going to repeat what I've already said to you. Members of the Socialist Party's bench on this matter and I would add just one more thing, Mrs Deputies: tell me what the CFP does not agree with? Is it with the existence of a public policy that promotes the ageing and the rights of the elderly? [[Protests by PCP Member Paulo Sá.]] Why doesn't the PCP agree? Is it with the existence of an advisory body in which the elderly can be called to speak about the lives of their municipalities? [[PCP protests.]] Why doesn't the PCP agree? Is it with the appreciation of the old universities? Why doesn't the PCP agree? Is it because our health professionals are more prepared? [[PCP protests.]] Mrs. Member, the PCP will hardly disagree with anything about these, but you can't say anything other than the speech of acidity, acid...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u97	Acidity was your policy!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u98	...and the pass! That is why you act this way! [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u99	Mrs. Idália Serrão, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u100	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u101	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u102	Mr President, I would like to ask the Bureau to distribute a statement from the Council of Ministers which has a date prior to that which Mrs Teresa Morais here announced as the "date of truth" for the real concern of the elderly.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u103	Let us get the document, Mrs Deputies, which will be distributed. Mrs Teresa Morais, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u104	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u105	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u106	Mr President, I would like to ask the Bureau to provide for the distribution of Order No 12427 / 2016 of 17 October, in which the Government created a working group and recognizes that it is necessary to make aging a positive experience.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u107	Of course, Mrs. Deputy. The next item is Mrs Domicília Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : According to the latest statistics, the Portuguese population aged 65 or older will be around two million people, corresponding to about 20 % of the total population. Portugal is one of the oldest countries in the European Union, largely due to the massive emigration of our young people in recent years and the decline of birth as a natural consequence.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u109	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u110	Today we are discussing a set of PSD proposals for the protection and promotion of the rights of older people. It is important to remember that this PSD is the same as it was in the government together with the CDS for four years. And during these four years, with the majority of the members of this House of the Republic, what have they done to defend and promote the rights of the elderly?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u111	That's a good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u112	We remember well what they did: they lowered the value of pensions and kept 80 % of them frozen — all pensions above €262. They decreased or cut social support, lowering the value of the solidarity supplement for the elderly and removing the ISC to one in four elderly. They promised the European Union the cut of EUR 600 million each year in pensions and did not hesitate, until they made unconstitutional cuts, which were only reversed because the opposition, and since then the Left Block, appealed to the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u113	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u114	And what about the increase in the price of food, water, light, household income, transportation, all that is essential to a dignified life? Moderate rates in health centres and hospitals increased. Hundreds of post stations in this country have been closed, where many elderly people, how often with enormous locomotion limitations, would receive their thin pensions. All we have just stated and much more is involved in defending the rights of older people? In fact, much has to be done to defend and promote the rights of elderly people in our country—is what has been done with this new majority. First of all, it is necessary to recover income. in this sense, the extraordinary increase in the value of pensions, which is still far from necessary, has already begun.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u115	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u116	On a proposal from the Left Block, the solidarity supplement for the elderly rose by about 40 € per year. It is very little, we recognize, but it is a start, and it is positive to disseminate the existence of this provision and its rules, on television and on radio, to the 140 000 elderly who are entitled to it, because there are many people who cannot read or write but watch television and listen to radio. There was also a reduction in the social rates of water and electricity and an increase in the number of users covered by them, including beneficiaries of the solidarity supplement for the elderly and the social pension of old age. But we know we need too much. We need social responses, which have taken some time. We need more transportation and better times. Short careers must be restored and schedules extended. We need transport to be a public service that serves us: to go to the health center, to go to the post office to get a pension, to go shopping, to visit the family and friends we need transportation at prices that can be paid. We need a strong and solid National Health Service, as a public response, which has already begun with the exemption of moderate rates that this new majority put into practice, with the opening of 700 new integrated continuous care beds. A serious strategy is needed to combat the abandonment of the elderly and to find alternatives to their institutionalization. We need to strengthen home support. The Home Support Service needs to have more professionals working and with longer hours. But it is also urgent to resolve the problem of waiting lists in homes and to end shameful business in social security homes. It is necessary to end with realities, that I know, which are detrimental to the well-being and physical and mental health of the elderly, most of which families have no knowledge: the poor or inadequate meals given to them — the affixing of the documents should be mandatory — the hours of visits, often very restrictive; the lack of promotion of activities in accordance with their limitations — often users simply sit all day in a chair, with a television in front of which they do not even look — and many other situations. We have to change this reality. I understand that there should be a manual of good practices of compulsory application in the homes of the elderly. In addition, the elderly, at a time of life when they have more time for themselves, should have access to culture and adequate sport, for the sake of their physical and mental health. They must — we must — be recognized as political participation. Older people know that they can count on us to fight for the improvement of their living conditions, our living conditions! Here we are! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u117	How there's no more Mrs. Member of the Commission. - (FR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this debate is closed. [[Pause.]] Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today I call on us to discuss a number of proposals that place ageing at the heart of political concerns. I believe that they are matters that concern us all and that all banks are concerned about. Old age must correspond to an opportunity for the development of each and society as a whole. It is a challenge for all and cannot correspond to a way of aggravating different types of exclusion. in the CDS we still do not understand how the Assembly of the Republic and in particular the benches of the Socialist Party, the Left Block, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Greens prevented the approval of 11 measures we presented here to protect the elderly and to enhance active aging. Yes, today there is a social risk of abandonment of the elderly and, therefore, we have proposed that the crime of violation of the obligation of food should become dependent on complaints and that such a circumstance would determine the successive indignity. Therefore, we also proposed a recommendation to improve and qualify the Home Support Service. Yes, many workers await retirement age and make sense that those who are one year from the legal age of retirement may choose to work part-time for two years. Yes, today the problem of long-term unemployment is greater in the oldest layers of the population and would make sense, even I believe it is a moral imperative, considering additional incentives for unemployed people over 55 years of age. Well, all these measures were plunged by the PS, the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens. This is the responsibility of these parties. We would like to believe that on this package we are debating today will be different, but unfortunately, by the tone of the debate, by the content of what has been discussed here today, we have the proof that this majority has formed — see only! — a majority of blockades. A majority of lockdowns that closes and does not receive contributions from those who are not from the club! [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Teresa Morais.]] We have already heard here today the excuse for this sectarian attitude, which invokes the lack of legitimacy of the proponents who would result from their historical past—see! — their responsibility to govern during the intervening period for which they pushed us to the generation of Socrates. I will not do here the defense of this past because the Portuguese know it and have already supported it in the last democratic elections, a result which, in fact, leaves no room for doubt as to the political legitimacy of the proposers of the proposals they bring us here today.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u119	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u120	But for a second, we assume that political legitimacy stems from the correctness of government action. If that's the case, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the majority of parliament, composed of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, would be sentenced to silence. Otherwise we see: since January the vast majority of pensioners receive less money and suffer from the financial and electoral engineering of this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u121	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u122	The left, which used to say that pensioners do not earn what they need to live, is now pleased to cut their monthly income. And we have already heard the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security say: « Pensioners will receive less, but in total they will not be harmed». It's a new line: pensions increase, pensioners earn less! [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u123	Do you guys know what the Christmas allowance is? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u124	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the amendments to the IMI, of the responsibility of this government, determine that the low-income elderly, when they change their residence, no longer benefit from the exemption of that tax. How is it possible to put those who have less income in a position to pay more taxes? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, on legitimacy and democratic authority, we are talking. But that's not how we're going. If the only criticism we have to make to the proposals is to discuss not their content but the party of whom brings them, that means only that this majority has closed, eventually closed in a castle, does not dialogue, does not listen, does not see, much less if it moves with whatever it is. The Portuguese and the elderly have become the last of their concerns, but we will not cease to fight and remain in a constructive attitude, presenting our proposals and fighting for the good of the Portuguese and the elderly. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Teresa Morais.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u125	What a waste!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u126	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, Mrs Sofia Araújo, of the PS Parliamentary Group, wrote to request clarifications. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would like to ask Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia whether the elderly population has only existed since 2016. It is, frankly, that I cannot find in the four years of PSD/CDS governance something positive that they have done by the elderly population, and since 2016, from socialist governance, have presented a number of proposals that even seem miraculous.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u128	This is a complete janja vu! They have no arguments!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u129	You are right when you say that this majority is a blocking majority, but by the way, it is a fantastic blockade, because this last year has been a result, and well, and all the measures taken by the government have been very successful and have given the elderly the conditions they really need. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] We have not only given more conditions as we have corrected the mistakes that your government has made in the four years it has been here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u130	To reply, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u131	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your question. I see that the honourable Member has only confirmed what I said here and many Portuguese make sense: this majority is in fact a blockage majority, it is a majority who only criticizes the proponents, invoking their lack of legitimacy, and does not make a single concrete criticism of the content of the proposals. But I must tell you, Mrs. Member, that we, in the CDS, have no problems recognizing that it was us who, at the most difficult time, increased the lowest pensions of the lowest. That is what you refused to do when you follow the increase in the other pensions. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u132	Mrs. Members, once again, the Bureau does not register any requests for intervention. [[Pause.]] Mr Santinho Pacheco has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u133	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Bill No 367 / XIII ( 2. a ), by the authorship of the PSD, which proposes the creation of the legal regime of the old municipal councils, more seems to be the expression of a state of soul than a real legislative initiative. Despite the proximity of the electoral act to the local authorities to give him an opportunistic electoralism, either the Exhibition of Reasons or the articulate, sound the remorse. Retirement is repentance, guilt, feeling of discomfort caused by a reprobable act. And the PSD knows very well why! The evils that the elderly have been targeted by the PSD/CDS government, the worsening levels of poverty cause the despair of such initiatives. It's like saying, did I cut your pensions? Take a law there! We are faced with a redundant document, which wants to answer already answered subjects. Of course, because local social action councils are set up, well-implemented entities in the field and which join the autarchs, security forces, the IPSS (private institutions of social solidarity), social security and which give permanent attention to the problems of the elderly population. Then, because there are already authorities that have found it useful to create a senior municipal council, and for that, there was no need for any national law. Why this legislative obsession, this passion for more bureaucracy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u134	Bureaucracy? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u135	... at the press, which even led to the failure to consult the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ( ANMP ) and the ANAFRE ( National Association of Freguesias )? This is a highly unfair project for local power, in such a way that it seems more like a motion of mistrust to the initiative capacity of the autarchs and a curious interpretation of the tasks of the local authorities. If there are competences that the authors already exercise with particular effectiveness, these are those relating to the social areas. To constitute a municipal council formed by the president of the chamber, by the president of the municipal assembly, by the board presidents of each council, plus a certain number of elderly, is or is it not a overlap with the CLAS (Local Council of Social Action ) and a duplication, to the worst, of the autarchic bodies? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u136	And without any gain for the elderly and for social cohesion. The PS is against this policy of accountability and appearance. What matters us, more than legislative floral games around municipal councils—and it is good to remember here that the municipal council, as a consulting body of the municipality, came to have constitutional text honours until the 1989 revision — our priority is to combat poverty and the exclusion of the old citizens. thus the government measures to restore the income of the elderly, promoting the updating of pensions and restating the references of the solidarity complement for the elderly. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u137	Public policies for older people are not made with simple and reducing legislative packages. They don't want to throw laws into the eyes of our old people! This PSD initiative is, recalling an old slogan, such as the « Improving: it does not do good, nor does it harm ». And that's why it's no use. Hence our question: what does the PSD want with this proposal? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u138	There are no requests for clarification to Mr Santinho Pacheco, now he has the floor for an intervention, Mr Luís Graça.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD brings us here today a set of recommendations in the context of ageing, repeating, after all, a debate which, as Mrs Galriza said a few months ago, took place here in plenary. And it brings us a set of ideas which, because of the passion that Mrs Teresa Moreis puts into the word, are simple ideas some and others the government is already implementing. There are, however, two ideas that the PSD does not refer to in its projects, certainly over time, but that, because I believe they are decisive for positive aging, VV. They should add. The first idea is that the elderly, the retired, pensioners always know what they have in relation to reform, pension and social benefits,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and don't let 'the creed in your mouth' every time the Minister of Finance speaks. Do not cut into pensions, do not cut into social benefits, from then on in the solidarity complement for the elderly, who almost disappeared, do not increase the moderate rates by making them stop being moderators and become disincentives of the use of health services seems to me to be the first instrument for positive aging. [[P.S.'s applause.]] VV. They should not forget that. And it does not seem to me that after what they have done, they can come to talk about positive aging and get outraged by the Socialist Party's benches remind you of the negative past of your governance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The second idea is to bring public services, particularly the National Health Service, to the limits of the limit, neglecting primary health services, which was what happened in your government, is precisely competing against what they now recommend. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government, particularly the Ministry of Health, has given priority to the establishment of a palliative care network and the extension and consolidation of the continuing care network. These two networks are crucial instruments in the protection of the elderly, both at the level of pain prevention and in the protection, recovery and physical restoration of the elderly. The PSD aims to recommend to the Government that, together with the institutions of higher education in the field of health, the inclusion of the study of pain and geriatrics in their curricular programs. This recommendation, which we take for granted, has only, Mrs Teresa Moreis, the wrong recipient, because, in view of the principles of the scientific and pedagogical autonomy of higher education institutions, it must be addressed not to the government but to higher education institutions. Madam Member, do you really think this proposal solves the problems of aging and the elderly? Do you really think, after what Mr. Santinho Pacheco said, that the bill here solves any problems? The social and demographic model has indeed suffered profound changes, we live on average for more years and, yes, we need to ensure that we live for more years and with a better quality. And in this sense, Mrs. Member, what is necessary is to ensure that the social state works, that the National Health Service works, that the public services work. And that was the commitment that the PSD should bring here today: that which was available to support measures aimed at the sustainability of the social state, that the social state better meet the challenges of the present and the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u140	The Bureau is currently only registering for another intervention by the Socialist Party. If no other parliamentary group wants to intervene in the meantime, I will have to speak again to the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, even though it is a bit strange. Therefore, you have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Wanda Guimarães.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The intervention of the Socialist Party will be essentially on the national plan of action for positive ageing, whatever that means.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u142	It's reading the project, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u143	So far, the only thing that has been expressed here is that it is not about replacing active aging, but no one has explained what positive aging was. I gave myself to the work of seeing that this draft resolution has 11 pages, 9 of which are just quotes... [[PSD protests.]] Mr President, I know that sometimes the PSD bench gets a little excited, but we should be quiet to hear who doesn't have the same opinions. You spend your life preaching that we must all be democrats,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u144	It's your obligation!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u145	... but then they can't be in practice. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I said that this draft resolution has 11 pages, 9 of which are only citations and statistical data, and 2 pages of proposals, in a perfectly incomprehensible mix, in which everyone is summoned, which means that no one is summoned, and has 14 specific areas, of which only the Armed Forces and Foreign Affairs remain outside. Therefore, it is a completely ineligible situation from our point of view. And we are not here to take a cup, but the dates of both the Council of Ministers' office and the presentation of our own plan, which, yes, is a serious plan in relation to what is intended to be done for the elderly, are precedents. But that is not what is under discussion and would therefore refer to a sentence of the project under discussion—in fact, the draft resolution is beautiful and rich in sentences—which says: « (...) we defend policies that promote life in an environment that strengthens and stimulates their capacities(...) » — theirs, of the elderly — « (...) and provides them with adequate support and care». Now let's see how we are in terms of 'appropriate support and care'. ILO, in a September 2015 study, presents Portugal as one of the countries that most abandons its elderly. And now, for you to know, in this study, we are at Ghana level, which is remarkable! ... In fact, in this report we are presented as a country where care for the elderly is at the level of what is happening in Ghana. But the PSD is very happy with that, with what you did. [[PSD protests.]] I understand the embarrassment of the PSD. Let's see: the government has solved the most pressing problems of the Portuguese...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u146	Here, here! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u147	...and therefore the PSD has nothing to present. Thus, it makes this kind of makeup session—in fact, excuse me, of very bad quality, which reminds me of a story by writer Augusto Abelaira, who, perhaps, the younger ones do not know, in which the protagonist, as he cannot change anything, cannot change the essence of things, changes the decoration of the room and buys a lamp. Yeah, your lamp doesn't even give light, it's a terrible lamp. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, the PSD drama is that you don't have an idea for the country. Now, since you have no idea for the country and the government is going to solve the problems, the PSD has no proposals and is at an impasse.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u148	But say there an idea!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u149	So, on this issue of active ageing and positive ageing, I ask: then, how are we to call the four years in which the PSD/CDS government threw thousands of elderly people into the blackest misery, cutting off the CIS (single supplement for the elderly), reducing their pensions, not giving them the care they had right to? Personally, I must say, I would call this period 'harsh aging'. [[PSD protests.]] Harmful aging is what you have been able to do for four years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But we must be serious in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u150	Let's go!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u151	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I am practically, of course, the oldest of all and all Members. I'm going to do 73 years this year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Perhaps I am a typical case of positive ageing in your view and in your view.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u152	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u153	Yes, I am! But do you know why? It wasn't because at the age of 65 or at the age of 66, someone touched the magic button of positive aging and you got me to read the classics, take a walk, go to gym once a week, all of a sudden. That's not why. Do you know why I'm a typical product of your active aging? Because I had a job and a decent life, because I had a family to take care of me, because I had health care,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...because I had a great education, because I was taught what I should eat and because I had money to carry it out. That's why I've never been hungry. I've never been cold. That is why I am here today, indeed.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u154	Why don't you talk again? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u155	I really like to see you, I confess... [[PSD Members' laughs.]] First, it is about providing people with decent work and life and then protecting them and including them when they need it. Therefore, it is not worth to announce pumping a national action plan for active ageing when, for four years, 500 000 children — according to UNICEF, 650 000 children — are in poverty, in a situation that, in most cases, will have an impact on life outside and which, in most cases, is not even recoverable. I therefore reply to the right-wing benches, which sometimes question why today we have so many young people "neither" : because you have opened this way and contributed to this situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u156	Have you solved these problems?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u157	I have to tell them the following: put your feet on the floor. There are no entrepreneurs, no employers who maintain or admit to their company people who are not healthy, who do not have desirable mobility, who do not present themselves in a certain way. I take advantage of a second question, which is that of the image at this point. We live in a society in which what is apparent, healthy, beautiful and new is the most important. Older people have often stopped being considered because they do not match the current model. The essential link between generations is virtually no longer happening: families are scattered and people live far away from each other, in cities there is a huge and pernicious isolation and grandparents still work, so there is no necessary contact, neither learning, nor the passage of testimony. If this is valid for families, it is also valid for businesses. The knowledge of experience made is not valued.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u158	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u159	I'll be done right away, Mr. President. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, investing in people is not to break down, as you say, it is to invest in the country and it is to invest in the future! I even finish with a sentence from the United Nations report World Population Ageing 1950 - 2050, which says the following : « The challenge for the future is to ensure that people everywhere in the world can achieve an advanced age with security and dignity and continue to participate in social life as citizens of full right ». That's what we're working for, and that's what the right will never be able to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u160	Mrs Wanda Guimarães, the Bureau does not register Mr. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. For an intervention, on behalf of the Left Block, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u161	Mr. President : The PSD marked a debate on the issue of defending and promoting the rights of older people, a curious subject, knowing the history of the PSD. It accompanied the marking of the debate of a concrete content, a set of initiatives in which it proposes an advisory council, which, in fact, depends on the authorities and not on Parliament,... [[Protests from PSD MP Teresa Morais.]] ...and makes a set of generalist recommendations: a plan, the regulation of universities... Many phrases made, very enthusiastic children because apparently the PSD has discovered a new expression, 'positive aging', and, at the end of the day, very little, very poor, the debate. in the four years you were in the government, the PSD had no time to implement any of the measures that it now proposes to the government it does. He did not have time for any of these measures, he did not find a week, a month, in the four years of government, to carry them out. But for four years you've had time for a lot of things, Mrs. Teresa Morais. The PSD — which has been said here — for four years had time to freeze pensions of 1, 5 million pensioners! It had time to keep frozen pensions of 275 €, of 303 € people with 20 and 30 years of contributing career, who were losing purchasing power each year.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u162	The PS has frozen!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u163	The PSD, as well as the CDS, which for four years had no time to implement any of the measures proposed today, had time to close health services, to cut in the transport of patients, to increase moderate rates. He had time and found availability and concern with the elderly to cut them 150 million euros in the solidarity complement for the elderly... [[Protests from PSD MP Joana Barata Lopes.]] ...and are you talking about defending and promoting the rights of the elderly, including, autonomy? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, be ashamed of your face! They cut the solidarity supplement for the elderly to 70,000 people — 70,000 people! [[PSD protests.]] The PSD Members of the previous Parliament did not have time to implement any of the measures that the new PSD proposes the government to do today. But there was a PSD member who had time to write a newspaper article saying that the country was contaminated with a grey plague. And, as if it were not enough to insult the elderly, this PSD Member, a national reference, still had time to bring a court case to an old man who answered him in a newspaper, demanding him to pay €10,000 of compensation. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, be ashamed of your past and be ashamed of what you have done! [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mrs Teresa Morais, to whom I recognize intellectual sophistication and oral capacity, spoke about the importance of new measures in the area of mobility, urbanism and inclusion. He spoke, for example, about the friendly cities of older people. Mrs Deputy, one of the fundamental elements of the right to the city, of the right to the place is the right to mobility. I would like to ask you if you are the friendly cities of older people the cities where the elderly have no right to walk in public transport. I would like to ask you if you remember that in 2012 your Government cut the 50% discount that the elderly had on the transport pass. [[Congrats by PS Member Idália Salvador Serrão.]] This cut led to 40 000 elderly people simply no longer being able to buy the pass. For these elderly, this meant isolation, inability to move, inability to enjoy the right to the city. Don't come and talk to us, gentlemen. Members of the elderly-friendly cities when you were responsible for degrading the lives of the elderly in the cities. In the light of the pleas made by the left to the PSD, another tone would be expected from Mrs Teresa Morais.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u164	Why? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u165	Mrs Deputy spoke of acidity— 'you are acids, you are ignorant' -, on Tuesday. Acids? Oh, my God! Azedume, Mrs. Member? Oh, my God! We have memory, memory!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u166	They don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u167	And neither their attempts to conceal the specific options of the PSD nor the calls to the memory of Mrs. Isabel Galliça Neto make us forget, nor to us and the elderly in this country who suffered from the policies of the PSD and the CDS. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Don't play with our face, don't play with the lives of the elderly, don't come play games or manipulations, because we don't forget. We don't forget!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u168	Neither do we!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u169	Mrs Teresa Morais, you didn't have to go that far, actually. Less than two months ago, the PSD voted against the extraordinary increase of 6 € in minimum pensions. Against, the PSD voted against! Less than two months ago, the PSD voted against a State budget that makes the biggest pension increase in the last decade. The PSD voted against and the CDS too!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u170	You better not talk about pensions. It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u171	After cutting 150 million at CSI, the PSD voted against—see! — the Bloc proposal for a campaign to disseminate the solidarity complement for the elderly, which is currently underway and reaching 141 000 people. The PSD has voted against everything that can truly make a difference in the specific lives of older people, which can strengthen their autonomy, which can strengthen respect for older people, which can strengthen their capacity to include them. The PSD voted against allowing people to have decent incomes to live, to have public services that enable them to have the necessary support to be able to make their lives, to have transport, to have social rights, such as citizenship recognition, access to culture, political participation. Respect, ladies and gentlemen. Members, respect for the elderly is not made of whitening, concealment, manipulation and, after that, nice words. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u172	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u173	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u174	For an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u175	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u176	Mr President, I have heard here about the issues of memory, concealment and whitening and I would like to ask the Bureau to have the proposed amendment, from the Left Block initiative, for the 2015 State Budget, in which it proposed a value of the social support indexer of €25. [[EB and CFP Members' laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u177	Mr President, make the document available to the Bureau so that it is distributed. For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the Portuguese Communist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate marked today by the PSD is a repetition of a debate scheduled by the CDS. It will certainly not be a coincidence...! The PSD seems to be out of strategy and will copy the strategy of its partner coalition.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u179	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u180	Is it competition with the CDS? Is it CDS tagging? [[Protests from PSD MP Teresa Morais.]] Regardless of their motivation, the PSD only repeats the same number of using the elderly to seek to clear their responsibilities. He wants to pass a rubber on the policies of impoverishment which he imposed on the elderly population, who treated as "grey plague".
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u181	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u182	They want to shake their responsibilities in increasing poverty, inequality, degradation of living conditions for the elderly, pensioners and pensioners, the responsibilities that they have on the problem that they have created for the elderly with the IMI (municipal property tax) and which only now began to have a solution. But after all the evils of PSD responsibility, does anyone consciously believe that PSD is truly concerned about the elderly in our country? Oh, my God! [[Well, well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u183	In the face of its main problems, the PSD does not bring to the discussion a single proposal for its resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u184	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u185	With regard to positive ageing for the reformed, it is a fact that, from the time that the PSD and the CDS were removed from the government, it was possible to approve increases in pensions by which the CFP has been hit a long time ago. [[PCP applause.]] I use an expression that PSD and CDS really need to hear today: the elderly cannot be used as a political weapon, as the PSD does. contrary to what the PSD has done and does, the PCP defends even the reformed and the elderly and, therefore, we struggle and continue to fight to go further in valuing pensions and reforms, in valuing long-term careers, in access to health, in strengthening public response in social equipment for the elderly, even though the PSD does not have a single proposal to present.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u186	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u187	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. unlike the PSD and now also the CDS, the PCP will continue to assume and carry out the option of dignity and defense of the rights of the reformers and the elderly. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u188	Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD Parliamentary Group has proposed to this House a debate for the positive, a debate on positive ageing, but I repeat, a debate for the positive. A debate to address an important issue for many of our fellow citizens and for the organization of our society in general: the defence and promotion of the rights of the elderly. on the basis of this debate, there were some legislative and political initiatives. A draft resolution on the creation of an action plan for positive ageing. An action plan that wants to be a script so that all public entities, all political decision makers can integrate into their decisions a cross-cutting concern to all domains with an age group of our population that is very relevant; a script for concerted action in areas such as security, justice, education, health, culture, accessibility policy; a plan that is not built with an assistanceist vision but of integrating these people and their interests into decisions. A bill in the field of municipal activity, proposing the creation of old municipal councils — an advisory body, as already exists for other age groups, of municipal action, which can seek out people over 65 years of age, their civic participation, in the adoption of local policies. A draft resolution for the inclusion of the study of pain and geriatrics in curriculum programs of health courses, which, moreover, already exists and has been implemented in other countries, and another one that aims to value and regulate older universities. All these projects follow a strategy that was already approved in August 2015 by the previous government, an elderly person's protection strategy. And they also come after the PSD has already had the occasion in this Parliament to propose legislative initiatives aimed at criminalizing behaviors, such as the abandonment of older people, and to aggravate the criminalization of physical and psychic violence against the elderly, projects that were plunged by the Socialist Party and by the parties that support the government. Now, when the political forces supporting the government dropped these first projects, they wanted to announce that they were doing so to make time, because the government was going to try to bring this legislation to Parliament. We do not agree that the House is so dependent on the government's will, but we could finally understand it. however, now, 14 months after this government takes office, the parties that support it are preparing to, once again, lead initiatives and recommendations that are given to the government in the protection of the rights of the elderly. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the way this debate has been dealt with, i.e. with disparity, without wanting to discuss the thrust of the proposals and to be permanently, I will be talking about it later and look at the past — in fact, the very interventions themselves had to be removed almost from the reels, it seems that they did not want to participate in the debate, it seems that the matter was not important enough — it is shocking enough. It is shocking enough how the Members who support this government reduce the discussion of important issues,... [[PSD applause.]] ... discussion placed on a positive plan, on a constructive plan, on a plan that looks at the specific problems of people and society. The parties that support the government are in fact drunk, I repeat, drunk, with the power they have today to lead everything, with this compressor roll in which this majority has already turned. It's depressing! And it is depressing that they have conducted the whole debate not to talk about the proposals that were on the table, not to bring their own proposals, whatever they were, but to talk about always and only one subject: that of pensions. And they did it by looking at Portuguese society, people who are over 65 years old and who have left their lives active, telling them: "We are here to deal with your pension and we want your vote in response." This concentration of everything that is a policy for the organization of society seen with this perspective is democratic and politically depressing. Not that pensions are not important, they are! That is why the previous government took away minimum pensions when the Government of the Socialist Party had frozen them. [[PS and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u190	It's good to remember that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u191	Therefore, the previous government asked for some contribution to people who were retired, to those who had the highest incomes because those who had the lowest incomes were safeguarded; so the former government recovered the country so that this government and these parties can now also return income to pensioners. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] You are not returning income because you have this view, you are returning income because we created conditions for the state to have the means to restore income to pensioners and workers. That is what motivated and founded your position! [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, at the end of this debate, I would like to repeat: it is shocking, it is shocking, the way in which the parties supporting this government behave in Parliament. It's shocking! [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u192	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u193	I will finish, Mr. President. They almost said we couldn't discuss this issue, almost said we couldn't bring proposals, almost said we couldn't look at people over 65 years of age — it's more than 20% of our population, and in the future it's going to be even more! — and to provide a legislative building that enhances its experience and civic participation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u194	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u195	I will finish by saying the following, ladies and gentlemen. Deputies: Dr. António Costa did not bring the Rearviewer to the Assembly of the Republic for the Deputy Assumption Cristas, but secretly, I think he offered each Member sitting on the bench of the PS, the PCP and the Left Block a Rearview, because they only look back, they are only opposition to the previous government. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] That, in the words of Dr. António Costa, is very little,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u196	I ask you to finish, Mr Luís Montenegro. It's been a long time since he had it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u197	... but in my words, I mean, it's sad! [[PSD applause, stand up, and CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u198	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the deliberation quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 199 presences, to which the presence of the Members is added. Deputies Jorge Campos e Luís Monteiro, do BE, Miguel Tiago, do PCP, Luísa Salgueiro, Joaquim Barreto, Luís Graza, Miranda Calha, Vitalino Canas, João Galamba e João Gouveia, do PS, Hugo Lopes Soares, Manuel Frexes, José de Matos Correia e Rui Silva, do PSD, Isabel Galliça Neto, Teresa Caeiro e Álvaro Castello-Branco, do CDS-PP, perfazening 216 Members present, so we have quorum to proceed to vote. Mrs. Members, let us begin by voting No 195 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Despite the death of Prof. Daniel Serran ( CDS-PP ), which will be read by Mr. Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u199	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The death of Professor Daniel Serrão last January 8th is a sad news, but which calls us to the greatness of the life of this doctor and his legacy — a teacher who took ethics to the borders of life and to the limits of medical science. Born in Vila Real, in 1928, he graduated from Medicine at his Faculty of Medicine at the University of Porto, having been a doctorate in 1959. Professor Professor of Pathological Anatomy retired in 1998, being a reference of the Faculty of Medicine of the University of Porto. After his sanitation in 1974, cancelled a year later by the Council of the Revolution, he mounted and led a Laboratory of Pathological Anatomy. He served in the Order of Doctors, in the University Senate, in the UNESCO International Bioethics Committee, in the Board of Bioethics of the Council of Europe, representing Portugal, in the Committee for the Development of Research in Health Care, of the Ministry of Health, among many others. He was a member of the National Council of Ethics for Life Sciences and Pontifical Academy for Life, at the invitation of John Paul II. Daniel Serrão discussed and studied life as a humanist, philosopher and scientist with a global vision, without barriers, about everything that is human, whether through science, or through his path of faith, between nature and transcendence he devoted himself to the other, that is, to everyone. Ethics, he said, is the ability to know the world, transforming knowledge into values and guiding free and conscious decisions with them. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, addresses condolences to the family of Professor Daniel Serra, friends, colleagues and disciples, with admiration for their life and their work. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u200	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Once again, I would ask Mr António Carlos Monteiro to proceed with the reading of vote No 196 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of Luís de Azevedo Coutinho ( CDS-PP ).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On December 22, Luís de Azevedo Coutinho died, former Deputy to the Assembly of the Republic and historic leader of the CDS, at 87 years of age, victim of prolonged disease. Natural of Porto, Azevedo Coutinho, chemical-industrial training engineer, starts his political journey in 1974, the year in which he joined the CDS, soon after his foundation. Since the beginning of its political mobilization and tenacity, it has been transformed into a leading figure in the implementation and dynamization of the party in the district of Porto, along with João Lopes Porto, Eugenio Anacoreta Correia, Ruy Garcia de Oliveira, Walter Cudell and Manuel Cavalleiro Brandão. The former political leader highlighted himself as a well-known and influential personality of the party, especially in the first decade of its existence, having played several partisan positions, including those of the Chairman of the Committee on International Relations of the CDS and of the President of the District Port Commission. He was elected a Member of the Assembly of the Republic in 1976, taking on the role of Vice-President of the Parliamentary Defence Commission in this legislature. In 1979, he was re-elected as a Member, but would eventually join the Executive as Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs in the short government of the first coalition of the Democratic Alliance, led by Francisco Sá Carneiro and Diogo Freitas do Amaral. A year later, after the tragedy of Camarate, he is invited to succeed the Adelino Amaro da Costa, of whom he was a friend, in the folder of the National Defence. During the period in which he performed these functions, the preparatory work developed by himself was highlighted as being decisive for the subsequent elaboration of the proposed law of national defence and the armed forces. A man of family and culture will be in the memory of everyone by his unusual mobilising force, by his refined political spirit and, above all, by his dedication to public service and to people. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u202	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now proceed to vote No 198 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Despite the death of Guilherme Pinto ( PS ). For obvious reasons, it will not be the Bureau to read this vote, but, yes, Mrs Luísa Salgueiro, to whom I give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u203	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, we wanted to thank the NAP for withdrawing its vote and for associating with what the PS presented and for reading: « He died in the morning of last Sunday, Guilherme Manuel Lopes Pinto. Born on April 21, 1959, in Matosinhos, « fantastic city» as he always, emotionally, the surname and whose spirit, like few, represented. Guilherme Pinto graduated in law from the School of Coimbra, having been active, since very young, in the ranks of Socialist Youth. Member of the Assembly of the Republic by the electoral circle of Porto, here he has demonstrated, in numerous debates, his great tributaries and, above all, the courage he has managed to maintain to the end. In 1989, he entered for the council of the Municipality of Matosinhos, finding in the exercise of authentic functions the means to perform as a committed citizen and do what he loved most: to be close to the citizens and serve the community. In 2005, he was elected president of the autarchy, a post he held until the end of his life, as independent in the last three years, but always as a convinced socialist and as someone who, having episoded the PS, wanted to return his last civic and political act to his party. Persistence, generosity, creativity and solidarity are qualities that make Guilherme Pinto one of the most unique and extraordinary figures in our civic life. Guilherme Pinto radically transformed the profile of Matosinhos, giving him a status of modernity that the city prides itself and its institutions and its people must honor, divulging and perpetuating his work and his memory, making him an example for the coming ones. His prestige as a public man goes far beyond the boundaries of the municipality that served with total dedication and devotion. In addition to the functions performed in the Municipal House of Matosinhos, Guilherme Pinto also performed positions of great national and international importance, including the presidency of the House of Architecture - Portuguese Architecture Centre, the presidency of the European Forum for Urban Security ( EFUS ) and the presidency of the Board of Directors of the European Network of Cities and Second Opportunities Schools. Guilherme Pinto was also a member of the Political Council of the European Programme for the Sustainability of Cities and Regions, a member of the PS Office of Studies and of the JS National Jurisdiction Board, the Coordinator and President of the PS Political Commission of Matosinhos, the chairman of the PS District Federation Jurisdiction Commission, a member of the PS National Commission and vice-president of the Port Metropolitan Board. Unique personality, Guilherme Pinto leaves a prestigious trail in Matosinhos, his city, to which he dedicated his life as a committed citizen, intellectual of rare magnitude and convinced democrat. The death of those who leave too early leaves a pity that no word can hinder. It was short the passage of Guilherme Pinto, but it is huge the legacy and memories that it leaves us. It is therefore with deep sadness that the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, indicates its death, transmitting to its family here the most significant grief. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u204	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the votes that we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] I now ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to proceed with the reading of vote No 199 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Condemning the terrorist attack in Jerusalem, Israel ( PSD ).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u205	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u206	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u207	Mr President, however, did not mention that the vote is also presented by the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u208	I'm sorry, sir. I therefore ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read vote No 199 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Condemning the terrorist attack in Jerusalem, Israel ( PSD and CDS-PP ).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u209	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « on January 8, 4 Israelis died and 17 were wounded by a cruel terrorist attack, after a driver deliberately launched his truck on a group of people on the Armon Hanatziv Promenade in Jerusalem. There is no possible justification for terrorist acts and for incitement to terrorist activities. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, strongly condemns the use of terrorism under any circumstances and sends its condolences to the families of the victims and to the Government of Israel. The Assembly of the Republic also reiterates that violence and terror at nothing contribute to the resolution of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict; on the contrary, only the right and constructive dialogue between the parties will lead to peace and stability. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u210	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and against BE, PCP and Les Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u211	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u212	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u213	Mr President, on this last vote, I would like to ask for a written statement of vote to be distributed because we have started with a vote that is based on falsehoods and does not condemn the main executioners of the attack, which is Daesh and not Palestine. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u214	The declaration of vote will then be distributed and read, of course.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u215	Mr President, I would also like to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u216	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u217	Mr President, it is only for, on vote No 199 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) to announce the delivery of a declaration of vote by the CFP and request that it be distributed.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u218	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall now vote, at the request of the PS, points 1 and 3 of draft resolution No 379 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government ensure democratic nature in the process of the Global Economic and Trade Agreement — CETA ( The Greens ). [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Members, let us now vote point 2 of draft resolution No 379 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 603 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by the rejection of free trade and services agreements, including the Global Economic and Trade Agreement ( CETA ) between the European Union and Canada ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 606 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government promote an extended debate with civil society and non-governmental organizations on the impact of CETA in Portugal and Europe ( PAN ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 608 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — by rejecting the Global Economic and Trade Agreement ( CETA ) ( European Union-Canada ) and by creating guarantees of transparency and democratic participation ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u219	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u220	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u221	Mr President, it is to inform the Bureau that, with regard to the vote on the last four draft resolutions, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u222	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 367 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates the legal regime of the former municipal council ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 450 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government value and regulate older universities ( PSD ), [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 487 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption and implementation of a national plan of action for positive ageing ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 605 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the inclusion of pain and geriatric studies in their curricular programmes ( PSD ) with higher education institutions in the field of health. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u223	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u224	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u225	Mr President, it is to be announced that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will present a declaration of vote in writing on the votes of Bill No 367 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) and draft resolutions 450 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), 487 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and 605 / XIII ( 2. ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u226	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall vote, in a comprehensive final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 35 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The twenty-second amendment is made to Decree-Law No 15/93 of 22 January approving the legal regime applicable to the trafficking and consumption of narcotic drugs and psychotropic substances, adding several substances to Table II - A. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote, in a comprehensive final vote, on the final text submitted by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees on Bill No 40 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Infrastructure and Equipment Programming Act for the Forces and Security Services of the Ministry of Internal Administration. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] You have the floor to take into account the opinions of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u227	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Land of Aveiro, Local Court, Cable Section, Case No. 890 / 14.OT8AVR, the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees issued an opinion to authorize Mrs. Carla Tavares ( PS ) to present her testimony as a witness in the field of the cars in question.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u228	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u229	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Central Court of the Comarca de Braga, 1. the Cable Section, Case No 6325 / 13.8TBRG, the Ethics Sub-Commission of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees issued an opinion to authorize Mrs Palmira Maciel ( PS ) to present her testimony as a witness within the reference cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u230	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u231	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request for 2. Judgment of 1. the Criminal Instruction Section of the Central Instruction of the District of Lisbon, Case No. 76 / 16.9SRLSB, the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees issued an opinion to authorize Mr. Pedro Alves ( PSD ) to intervene in the proceedings within the framework of the reference cars.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-13.u232	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The next plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday, 17, at 3 p.m., and will have on the agenda the 15-year debate with Mr Prime Minister. Good weekend for everyone. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 11 minutes.]]
