ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 10 hours and 2 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries, please. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the first item on our agenda consists of a debate, with the Government, on the priorities of the Maltese Presidency in the European Council, in accordance with Article 4(1) ( b ). the Act No 43 / 2006 of 25 August with the amendments introduced by Law No 21 / 2012 of 17 May — Monitoring, Evaluation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the process of building the European Union. To begin the debate, Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs, Augusto Santos Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Malta assumes for the first time the Presidency of the Council of the European Union, and this must be well pointed out. As the Maltese Presidency has shown, small countries also make major presidencies in the European Union. Portugal shares the essential of Malta's objectives and priorities for the exercise of its Presidency, priorities which are, in fact, summarized, and by the Maltese in three key words: migration, the Mediterranean and maritime affairs. Indeed, the Maltese Presidency's priorities, whether as regards the Single Market or as regards migration and security policies, are priorities which Portugal endorses. Portugal drew attention, in due course, to the need to give greater emphasis to issues also related to Economic and Monetary Union. It can be said that the Maltese Presidency is part of the current logic of the European Union, an incremental logic, that which is described as scenario 1 in the White Paper presented yesterday by President Juncker. In our view, scenario 2 of this book is absolutely unacceptable, the debate that has begun, which will be very alive and will also go through this Maltese Presidency semester, is on which of the other three scenarios — the 3, the 4 or the 5 — is the most favourable or the best combination between these scenarios. This is, of course, a debate in which Portugal will participate and in which the Portuguese Parliament will have a decisive word to say. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u3	To request clarification from the Minister, Mr Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group was registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u4	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members, as the first request for clarification, and given that Malta also integrates the summits of countries in southern Europe that have taken place in recent months, having been in Portugal even the last one, I would like to ask — taking advantage of Malta's presidency of the European Council over the next few months — which will be different from this Presidency, interconnecting with the efforts that have been made at these summits in southern Europe. So far, in practice, the resolutions that have come out of these summits have not shown great results. For the Left Block, it would be interesting and important for it to emerge, for example, a strong position regarding the need to restructure the debts that seriously affect them and that also affect Portugal with some relevance. Therefore, I ask what these summits of countries in southern Europe will serve after all. I also wonder if Portugal will or will not take advantage of Malta in the Presidency, one of our countries that has been invited to these summits, to move forward with the necessary and urgent debate on debt renegotiation, together with the countries in the south which have been the target of the most serious austerity packages. [[BE Applause]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u5	Mr Vitalino Canas of the PS Parliamentary Group also spoke to the Minister for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u6	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, the Maltese Presidency follows several others from the north and the centre of Europe. We are therefore not surprised that, looking at the programme and the priorities of the same Presidency, there are themes that have been, or in the background, distorted by the European debate. I would like to point out, of course, that the situation of the Maltese Presidency has decided to give a special focus to the southern flank of the neighbourhood policy, focusing some of its efforts on the stabilization of North Africa, corresponding there not only to the interest of Malta, which is, of course, very shaken by the migratory flows and the instability that comes from this zone of the globe, but also to the European interest. I would like you, Minister, to take your opinion on this. I will not confront it now with the question of the White Paper which was put forward yesterday — in my speech, soon, I will also focus on this subject, but I would also like to point out and ask you how it interprets the situation of, in the priorities and programme of the Maltese Presidency, there is no reference to the need to deepen and complete economic and monetary union. This has been an insistence from Portugal over the years, having put forward proposals, but apparently the Maltese Presidency is not very focused on this issue. I believe that we can say that the Maltese Presidency's programme and priorities leave us, as a Member State, comfortable and deserve our support, but perhaps that circumstance deserves debate and better treatment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u7	In reply, Mr. Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u8	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the questions put by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs Isabel Pires, we do not understand the meetings between the countries of the south as seeking the constitution of a united front. We understand, yes, that Europe has to use all its geography and that the regular and regular meeting of the countries of the south is a contribution for all these geography to be moved. The Lisbon Declaration, which came out of the meeting on 29 January, is very clear and all the issues it raised are also addressed there. Instead of focusing specifically on debt issues, we prefer to extend them and consider the need for a euro area's own stability function and increased budgetary capacities, both in the euro area and in the European Union as such. With regard to Mr Vitalino Canas, I agree with the emphasis given to centrality in the priorities of the Maltese Presidency of the south flank. I recall, for example, that in the crucial area of defence the Defence Ministers of Portugal, Spain, Italy and France have insisted very much on this centrality. I also follow up on the reservation that you have made to the fact that the Maltese Presidency's priorities are not sufficiently explicit in terms of economic and monetary union. from this point of view, the new and very positive fact of yesterday and today is the joint declaration by the Foreign Ministers of France and Germany, published today in translation in the Newspaper, which is, indeed clarifies as water the need to complete economic and monetary union. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u9	For an intervention, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The Maltese Presidency's priorities do not bring us anything new, but on the contrary they emphasize the security, militaristic and neoliberal character of the European Union's policies. In the face of the crisis in the European Union and the European Union, in the face of the problems faced by the peoples of the Member States of the European Union, such as high unemployment, precariousness, poverty, increasing inequalities and exclusion, the priorities of this Presidency are not only not responding to any of these specific problems, as they insist on the same path that has already shown that it is not a solution and that it is also responsible for the situation we are living today. The priorities of the Maltese Presidency refer to the Single Market — once again, in accordance with the interests of multinationals and great capital — a migration policy that disregards human rights, a security policy that attacks the rights and freedoms of citizens, a militaristic policy, war, interference in other countries. This is what you have to introduce us. With regard to developments that have taken place in recent weeks, either with the adoption of three reports in the European Parliament on the future of the European Union or with the presentation of the White Paper on the future of the European Union this week as well, what we can see is that they are, in fact, bringing about the deepening of the withdrawal of larger shares of sovereignty by States and, objectively, also to their respective peoples, with a view to continuing this process of capitalist integration in the European Union that we have seen well the result in our country with the destruction of our productive capacity and with the withdrawal of rights and greater parts of our sovereignty. I would like to mention another aspect here, concerning matters relating to migration and to refugees. The policies of the European Union have also been shameful in this respect. In addition to continuing to block their responsibilities with regard to this situation, as a result of their conviviality and their policy of intervention, war, destabilization and interference in sovereign States, it does not guarantee the most basic human rights to refugees, their dignity, disregarding international law. This is, instead of the European Union, to adopt policies that guarantee living conditions, dignity, the fulfilment of human rights, insist on options that we consider absolutely unacceptable and shameful, inhuman and illegal, such as the agreement between the European Union and Turkey, paying Turkey to contain the flows of refugees in its country to remove this same problem from the European Union and from the countries of Europe. As if this were not enough, they still want to extend this option to other African countries to contain and expel those who flee to war and hunger. This has been very visible in the growing number of people seeking better living conditions through routes such as the Mediterranean, in which the number of deaths has increased. And what is the European Union's response? Once again, it opts for security policies instead of guaranteeing the rights of these people. We consider this unacceptable, a shame. In fact, it is clear from this and other options that this is not the way. The way is to break with these options. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u11	For an intervention, Mr Miguel Morgado of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u12	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: We have already had an opportunity, within the Committee on European Affairs, to exchange views with the diplomatic representative of Malta on the priorities of the Maltese Presidency, and at the time we welcomed some of their aspects, in particular the attention given to migration and the southern border of Europe, but also to a new emphasis which the Presidency of Malta wants to give to maritime policy. Portugal has the right ambition to become a talassocratic power, and a concerted strategy of the European Union for the sea and the ocean can only benefit Portugal. We have also not failed to note our disappointment at the lack of ambition in Maltese priorities in relation to certain aspects that are crucial to the national interest, in particular the absence of mention of the deepening of economic and monetary union. As the Minister has already mentioned, this week the debate on European priorities for the future was marked by the publication of the Commission's White Paper, on which I wanted to make a few comments. Basically, the exercise proposed by the Commission is to present five scenarios and then to say, by associating each one, « if you want these results, then follow this path, and these are their counters ». What can we say about this? On the White Paper we could start by saying that perhaps it was a better idea, perhaps it would be preferable for the Commission, instead of deciding to make a long reword on the decline of Europe in the world, to have started by saying what we Europeans are and what we want to be. We could also start by saying that the Commission, in deciding, in an innovative, original way, to be euphemistic, does not propose a path, choosing one of these five scenarios, prefers not to take a position. And we have to say that this is probably a reflection of political divergences that will not be healed during 2017 and that it reflects an essential state of indecision that is not good. But in order to see things on the positive side, we would prefer to point out the effort of restraint and impartiality by which the European Commission has chosen and the call for the European States and peoples to play a part in this debate, because this debate is even for the European States and peoples. The European Commission's starting point is, however, very important. President Juncker also said in the European Parliament: 'We must abandon the binary simplism of summarizing everything in Europe or less in each of these discussions'. But it should also be noted that, in this scheme of the five scenarios and the choices which are implicit to them, the European Commission has also not avoided its own simplistic reductionism. In fact, it is not more or less Europe we need, what we need is a Europe with better solutions to the problems we have in common. It can be said, and we have already heard it say these days, that this White Paper helps organize the discussion. Well, in terms of the European Commission, it must be said that the scenario of the return to the single market without further delay would end with the European Union as we know it, but the scenario of the status quo also represents a backwardness because it is simply unsustainable. We have already shared enough to afford ourselves the luxury of not having, not having the respective mechanisms of improvement. At this moment, neither do States do what they want, nor do we, together, have effective answers to the crises that are generating. So it is unsustainable and it is more dangerous to stay at the point where we are. The risk of fragmentation is real and we would all suffer with it. The scenario of the various European speeds will also be unacceptable if it is interpreted in such a way that the various speeds include the core of the euro area. If this is the interpretation, then this scenario is also undesirable. But to say things like them, Europe does not need to organize its discussion anymore — this discussion has been organized for years — and much less a discussion around stylized schemes. So what does Europe need? Europe must, above all, be consistent with its own decisions. For example, if we have a single currency, then we need it to work with a financial union, a complete banking union and a budgetary capacity. What is expected here is that the European Commission, in the White Paper and in the speech of its President in the European Parliament, would appeal to States to be consistent with their own decisions. We know exactly where more integration is necessary for a Europe that works and makes sense, a Europe in which each of its peoples has equal opportunities to thrive together. So where do we need more integration? We need more integration in deepening economic and monetary union, with the creation of a European monetary fund, which is the economic counterpart to the ECB, with functions such as the coordination of European investment, the financing of structural reforms and budgetary capacity. We need more integration in deepening the internal market, in particular in energy, in digital, in the capital market and in banking union. We need more integration in the migration issue, particularly in the common asylum system, in the management of external borders and in internal security. In good Portuguese, if we know what we should do, it's not worth making up. But European States and peoples must continue to be the protagonists not only of the discussion but of the constitutional life of Europe. The model of realistic integration must be based on States and peoples and not against them, nor by resorting to the construction of a superstate that overlaps them. This is where we see realism as a fundamental and central political value. Realism is not defeatist pessimism, on the contrary, realism censures pessimism, its weakness and its complacency, but realism is not blind oblivion, and therefore cannot sponsor escape forward. Every step we take forward must be firm, firm in the assumptions, in the purposes, in the political support and in the means to be used. in the past, we've had enough fragility. It is therefore an error to assume that the path is that of hyperintegration towards a federal superstate. Excessive volunteerism can lead to frustration and resentment at best, but at worst to the eventual disintegration of the European Union. Between institutional retrogression and federalism there is a just realistic means of integration, and that is what we need for a Europe that makes sense and addresses concrete problems. But we will only have a Europe of these on the basis of the clear and committed assumption not only of common responsibility and solidarity but also of national responsibilities, where much is to be done, as indeed, the President of the European Commission said in his speech in the European Parliament. Without this double responsibility, clear and committed, we will not get out of this impasse, with the dangers that are foreseeable. in the coming weeks we will celebrate the sixtieth anniversary of the Treaty of Rome. There are reasons to celebrate this anniversary. Note that in this respect, the Europe we have is Roman: it is born in Rome and now Rome returns to celebrate its own anniversary. I do not refuse to share with the House an observation which I have read these days ironically, it is true, but which concerns the European Commission's motto for this whole debate. The motto was: What are you going to do, Europe? — where are you going, Europe? Everyone knows where the expression " quo vadis comes from? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” It is the Latin translation of a passage from the Acts of Peter, in which the apostle Peter is fleeing Rome with fear of persecution, and in which he finds Christ, risen, of course. And Peter asks Jesus: "What are you going to do? And Jesus answered: « I am going to Rome to be cruxed a second time». Now I say: it is good that Europe, now returning to Rome, will not be placed on the cross, but that it will find its salvation there. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u13	Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Mr President, as we have seen, Mr President, the priorities of the Maltese Presidency will be based primarily on migration, security, the single market, social inclusion, neighbourhood policy and the maritime sector. It is precisely about these priorities, more specifically about migration, that concerns my first question. Mr Minister, when we talk about expanding the relationship with the countries of North Africa with the aim of improving the management of migration to Europe, what are we talking about? We have been concerned that this priority to improve the management of migration to Europe is reduced to paying the doorkeeper so as not to let anyone in, as has happened in Turkey. The Greens believe it would be important for the Minister to give his opinion on this matter and on how this migration management is to be improved for Europe. Mr Minister, the Maltese presidency is going to go through the 60 years of the signing of the Treaty of Rome, and we believe that it would be a good opportunity to look back and rethink the future of Europe, of Europe which is worn out and nothing solidarity, which decides according to the great economic interests and always in favour of its strongest members, a Europe that has left much of the poor to become an instrument of neoliberalism. We believe that the reflection on the future of the European Union should be a priority of the Maltese Presidency, because continuing on this path can not last long. It is therefore a question of survival. But by the way, it will pass the 60-year celebration and the reflection is not on the priorities. Finally, Mr Minister, with regard to ECA ( Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement ), the free trade agreement between the European Union and Canada, two weeks ago the European Parliament approved - in fact - in an environment of strong protests - and now the respective ratification procedures are followed. It happens that the European Commission, in a way which we consider unacceptable, also intends to force the entry into force of the Agreement before ratification by the Member States. However, this is absolutely incompatible with democratic rules and even with the philosophy that presides over the entry into force of treaties in the field of international law. Mr Minister, what was the position of the Portuguese Government on the European Commission's claim to put CETA into force, either partially or provisionally, before the Member States' ratification process? What matters can come into force without their ratification process? What are we talking about? Finally, Mr Minister, taking into account the great environmental challenge we are facing, specifically with regard to climate change, the Paris Agreement, the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, how will these instruments be incorporated into public policies, in particular in commercial policies, if the CETA enters into force before its ratification procedures by the Member States? And what happens if the Member States do not ratify CETA? What happens to the part of the Agreement that the European Commission wants to enter into force before the ratification process? [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u15	Mr Miguel Tiago of the CFP, for an intervention, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The European Union and its presidencies insist on a project to concentrate political power and capitalist integration. The banking union, which has given, in fact, in Portugal, the beautiful results we have in view and the State's inability to decide on its own financial system, is presented as the solution to a set of problems, for many of which it is already proven that not only does it resolve as aggravating. What's the solution? More banking union to solve the problems that banking union has created so far. The solution to the creation and implementation of a single capital market with a view to responding to the large economic groups which already dominate the European Union today is another step towards integration, precisely in the sense of intensifying the problems which are at the root of the difficulties we are experiencing today and which are also felt in Portugal. The same can be said about economic and monetary union. The way forward to solve the problems that the euro and the use of the single currency already place today on countries in the situation in Portugal is the opposite of what should reasonably be chosen, which is that of the intensification of economic and monetary union, so we can only expect, of course, that the problems will worsen, if we step up the measures that have generated them so far. What is increasingly necessary, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and Members of the Commission. Members, it is to understand and assume that the dream of a European Union of solidarity and cooperation has never gone away from the deception with which the great economic groups have enchanted the people for the creation of the European Union. The solution is precisely in the reverse way, in the liberation of the country's submission to the euro, in the rescue and recovery of sovereignty and democracy, built in Portugal to respond to the problems of those who work in Portugal. To persist in the deception, in this sense that the European Union is a process of integration between equal peoples, in a system of solidarity and cooperation, is to continue to delude the reality that is in sight of all and that in Portugal, in particular, has also caused the damage it has caused. Therefore, it is not increasing and intensifying the measures that have created the problems that these will be solved. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u17	Mr Pedro Mota Soares of the CDS-PP now has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u18	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are now back to the debate on the priorities of the Maltese Presidency, which we have already made in committee. But at the moment in Europe the issues are more than the rotating half-yearly management of the Member States: we must quickly decide on a framework which is often a framework of disbelief and inevitability; we must have the ability to anticipate scenarios, but above all we must have the ability to resolve concrete issues. We have already spoken here today about Economic and Monetary Union. We must realize that this issue affects the financing and growth of our economy and also territorial cohesion and social inclusion in Portugal and throughout Europe. It is important to remember these matters in the month in which we celebrate — we realize that we will not all celebrate — the 60-year anniversary of the Treaty of Rome. in this sense, the Maltese Presidency presents a set of priorities which are consistent with priorities of previous presidencies and presents important developments, in particular the matter relating to the southern border and the maritime dimension of the European Union - we welcome - but we cannot fail to criticise the lack of vision, the lack of ambition as regards the completion of economic and monetary union, because this matter is vital for Europe, but is, above all, vital for Portugal, unfortunately demonstrating the breakdown of solidarity between the Member States. This solidarity is essential for us to maintain the broad consensus in the various countries, parliaments and peoples they represent throughout Europe. Europe is experiencing a crisis of confidence in its institutions' ability to respond, and what is required today is much more anticipation than mere reaction capacity. Above all, what we have to demand from the European bodies is an effective ability to decide on the concrete problems ahead. Today we have a real problem with the credibility of European institutions, not only within Europe, but also outside the European Union area. in this sense, it is understandable and even legitimate the perplexity of European citizens in the face of the difficulties that the institutions of the European Union have revealed in the response to very serious crises. I remember that, 10 years ago, half of the Europeans trusted Europe ; today, this confidence is limited to one third of their citizens and gives us a measure of perplexity and even tells us of the discontent that is gratifying in the context of European public opinion. This is also the responsibility of the European institutions, which, often caught in their bureaucratic webs, forget and seem to dilute the differences between the different European peoples and the diversity on which Europe must be built. But there are also good examples to highlight, good examples of reaction and decision-making ability in the face of the problems we face. One of these decisions, with full respect for the independence of the European Central Bank ( ECB ) within the framework of its mandate, was well expressed in the sentence, which had consequences, of the President of the ECB, Mario Draghi, when he said that he would do everything possible to defend the euro. What does not even work in Europe right now is solidarity between Member States and, without this solidarity, without solidarity in strengthening the European project, there is no European project. And Brexit revealed for the first time that the construction process is not irreversible; quite the contrary, it is possible that we should be able to see out of the Member States. I am referring to the lack of solidarity in the management of the greatest humanitarian crisis we have known in the 20th century: the refugee crisis. The truth is that the migration crisis has turned into an institutional crisis, which has imploded the European decision-making system and, for example, the Schengen system. One of the consequences of this lack of solidarity is that of the nearly 160 000 asylum seekers committed by the European Union to receive only 13 500 are currently effectively welcomed. And Portugal has the will to talk about this, the will of those who have been responding to this humanitarian drama in the European framework since 2015. I also refer to a lack of solidarity in the articulated response to the terrorist crisis and the threat to our security, since it is unacceptable that today we cannot achieve practically worthy cooperation in the sharing of information between the various countries within the framework of the European Union. I am still lacking solidarity in the response to the sovereign debt crisis because, 10 years after the start of the crisis, we have not yet been able to complete, structure, complete the architecture of the euro area and, very specifically, economic and monetary union. So let me also focus on the debate in the recent presentation of the European Commission's White Paper last Wednesday. This is a document which, contrary to what was expected, is unpublished. And it is unpublished because, instead of giving answers, it asks questions; instead of presenting a path, it identifies several paths we can choose; and instead of leading, it is a document that is limited to observing. We can say, sympathetically, that the Commission has been sensible to the European framework. But we cannot hide our disappointment in the face of the lack of a decision that is happening right now. We recognize that we live in a transitional period, and it is also important to think internally what we want to be. But we are very afraid that debate can mean delaying decisions, that reflecting may mean deferring an absolutely essential set of decisions and that, above all, deepening the dialogue means protecting the decisions we have to make. We go from Council to Council, as a report, of White Paper in White Paper, without adopting concrete measures and without achieving objective results. And these coming months cannot mean prolonging this worrying state of the present. Finally, Mr President, it is only in our view that it is essential to implement the last leg of the economic and monetary union tripé, which is to effectively guarantee banking union, including the deposit guarantee system, to improve the coordination mechanisms of economic policies and, to that end, to strengthen even the Stability and Growth Pact. It is important not to forget that the European Union is certainly not immune to disintegration and many of the xenophobic, nationalist and populist voices that we encounter throughout Europe, but also in Portugal, remind us that, in addition to the five scenarios, there is a sixth scenario that these voices here would like to be realized, which was the scenario of the end of the European Union, and that does not deserve our support. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u19	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u20	Mr President, Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Members: On the priorities of the Maltese Presidency in the Council of the European Union, we had the opportunity to listen to the Ambassador of Malta, which was important to clarify some aspects, and later the Secretary of State in the Committee on European Affairs. But neither did we stop, at both times, and today too, putting the doubts, concerns and problems that, in our view, arise either within the framework of the programme presented in concrete by the Maltese Presidency, either within the framework of the European project in general, which is increasingly clearly at a crossroads and discussed with deep problems, going to the presentation of the White Paper in that direction. The Prime Minister of Malta, Joseph Muscat, in some interviews at his presence in Portugal last month, made clear the three priorities of the Maltese Presidency of the six key axes presented: migration, security and neighbourhood policy. And not by chance, there are three priorities that are deeply interconnected and reflect some of the deepest problems of the European Union today. This goes without surprise to meet a political line that the European institutions have been following in recent years. in the midst of the exacerbation of the economic and financial crisis, in which the response was a non-number of austerity packages, applied only to certain countries and which only added crisis to the crisis and accentuated the idea and policy of a two-speed Europe, it is not surprising, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there is a lack of identification by European citizens about the European project. It does not fall from heaven, and it has a very concrete explanation, has to do with the austerity measures that have been followed exactly over the past 10 years. And in the midst of this economic and financial crisis comes what has already been referred to as the « biggest humanitarian crisis since World War II ». This called into question the supposed values behind the creation of the European project: solidarity, fraternity, equality. And it also put the tensions, inequalities and the escalation of xenophobic and racist movements naked. however, much of the European response to these problems recognised by all has been in the worst sense: Where the closure of external borders and a significant increase in internal border control (in case of exchange of information between police) is the main priority ; When at the top of the measures the path to a strengthening of military charities and cooperation with NATO is placed, which is a military bloc ; When agreeing with third countries, which we do not consider safe for us Europeans, but is where we send asylum seekers to Europe — this is the shocking case of the agreement made with Turkey about a year ago, in which there are already cases of people who have applied for refugee status and who have been relocated to Turkey, which would not even be included in that agreement, so the same is not being complied with and is disregarding the rules of international law, and it is also the case of Libya, which is prefigured in the negotiations as the next country with which a similar agreement is intended, without security guarantees for refugees and asylum seekers; When, in practice, we close our eyes to what is happening in countries such as Hungary and there is no significant progress in the effective aid to humanitarian support mechanisms and in accordance with international law, and we are always talking about the need to speed up the relocation processes, but few European countries are responding to these efforts—it is not too much to remember that there are countries that refuse to accept anyone who has refugee status or is seeking asylum, and it is not too much to remember that right-wing parties here in Portugal have a relationship in the European Parliament with parties from those countries. When this is the preferred way by the European institutions is only deepening and strengthening the growth of xenophobia and racism, tensions are intensified and, in the end, it fails - essentially: in the answer due to thousands of people, men, women and children, who do everything to get out of their places of origin and come to Europe, where what awaits them today is a bureaucratic process without an end of asylum request, or the return to countries like Turkey — where, it is said, minimum rules of respect for human rights are not being met — or the violent attack on borders with certain countries. Even this week Hungary has indicated that it will erect another wall of rusted wire on the border with Serbia. So today, Europe is the place where refugees and migrants face walls and fences. And to divert attention to this fact with agreements or ineffective measures is to want to divert the attention of yourself, it is to want not to look forward to the challenges that the European project has still faced over so many decades. That is why I am asking: is the political line followed by the Maltese Presidency not different from the previous presidencies or the European political line in general when it can be expected that the European Union will abandon security and military policies and when it will cease to ignore what is happening in its own territory, particularly in Greece, Italy and also in Malta, to give rise to humanitarian policies, full reception of those who ask for help and asylum, effectively condemning racist and xenophobic movements? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u21	I now give the floor to Mr Vitalino Canas.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u22	Mr President, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating today the programme and priorities of the Maltese Presidency of the European Union. Rotary presidencies are worth the wealth and variety of topics that they introduce on the European agenda and also because, when considered globally, they ensure the balance of the various regional and sectoral interests. After several presidencies, in the centre and in the north of Europe, the Maltese Presidency reintroduces and gives strength to the priorities in which the countries of the south are unequivocally seen, with particular reference here being given to the focus on the southern flank of the neighbourhood policy and also the integrated maritime policy. Malta is one of the Member States most affected by migratory flows, transposing North Africa and launching in the Mediterranean, having been a recent stage last month in an important statement of Heads of State and Government. In 2015, Malta also hosted the summit on migration that approved the La Valeta Action Plan. I would like to take this opportunity to reaffirm our support for this plan, which adopts an integrated and comprehensive view of the phenomenon of migration and its origins. The Maltese Presidency coincides with 60. the anniversary of the Treaty of Rome. In this context, the European Commission presented two days ago a White Paper proposing bases for reflection on the future in Europe. I will not resume some criticisms and comments that have already been made here today, but we will take advantage of this reflection we are facing and under the circumstances of this reflection to continue until the Rome Summit, to continue in the documents that the European Commission will prepare, to continue at the European Council scheduled for December 2017, and certainly also in the electoral debates ahead of the 2019 elections for the European Parliament. Those who think that these reflections are merely a response from the 27 Member States to Brexit and that this is confined have a reduced perspective that we must avoid. at the time when many challenge and fight the European project without quartile, it is necessary to reaffirm that, without this project, it is difficult, if not impossible, to meet the central objectives of all generations since immemorial times: to leave for future generations better living conditions than those that received from previous generations. But the reaffirmation of the European project goes through a clear vision and a clear communication about where we want to go and through a clear understanding of the citizens' next direction. The Commission presents us with five possible scenarios and let me make a parenthesis here to note that it forgets the role of national parliaments, but we have no doubt that this omission will be repaired. of these five scenarios, the first is in order to change something, leaving everything more or less in it. In other words, adopt a strategy of small steps, with mere spot improvements, to the taste of events. The second is to return to a mere common market — indeed, incomplete and not equitable — based only on a system for facilitating trade in goods, services and capital. The third scenario is to create or maintain a common basis, which may or may not coincide with the existing one, building on it variable geometry to the liking of each Member State. The fourth scenario is to set up a federalism simulation with minimal intervention from the European Union. It shrinks in important dimensions, but simultaneously strengthens competences in the area of internal security, defence, border protection, external representation and currency policy, acquiring added tax powers in these same areas. The issues of cohesion and social policies fade or leave the European radar. The fifth and final scenario is to do more, better and together. Mr Minister, it is not difficult to anticipate that the temptation of many, because of belief or fear of European fragility, will be to adhere to the model of a cantoned Union in its space, seeking only to maintain itself at all costs, without more initiative than that which circumstances require or allow: a Europe without initiative, simply at the flavor of chance. Eventually, some of these will adhere to the promises of the third model, attracted by the ideas of variable geometry that satisfy or do not affect their strict national interests. Knowing that the final model will be a mix of several contributions inspired by all the scenarios set out by the Commission, I believe that Portugal can only be where it has always been, defending a path inspired by the fifth alternative stated: to do more, better and together. This is the alternative which, without losing sight of the creation of employment, knowledge and prosperity, fully guarantees the completion of Economic and Monetary Union as designed in the report of the Five Presidents, ensuring their own budgetary capacity, a European monetary fund, a robust and complete banking union and a pillar of social rights. But it also enables cooperation to be strengthened in border control and in combating terrorism, a more appropriate allocation of the burden on migration flows and the construction of a genuine European defence pillar. This alternative, Minister, is therefore the one that will mobilise the Socialist Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u23	Mr Duarte Marques has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs: The request I make has to do with the position that the Government will take on this matter. Time has come to say that the position and decisions are of the European Commission. This is not about giving the floor to others, it is about giving the floor to us, because we are the Member States, who are in the Council. The European Commission proposes a number of ways, but it is the Council, where today the left even has a majority, so it cannot accuse the right to make choices, which will decide what will happen. The Council has more Member States with left-wing governments than with right-wing governments, Minister, and what we need to know is the following: what are we going to do? Are they or are we? But there can be ways of understanding here, either with the PSD or with the Socialist Party. There is one thing we have already realized: the coalition partners of this government, the far-left parliament, do not want either scenario one, the two, the three, the four, or the five, always say that they do not want this Europe. in fact, they do not want to assume that they are against this model of Europe. Even at the level of environmental issues they do not even recognize the path Portugal and Europe have taken. in the background, they are only in favour of Europe's implosion. They look at Europe just like Europe of rights, they never look at Europe of duties; they only look at Europe when they bring subsidies, they only look, unfortunately, at Europe of cohesion. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u25	That is why we want to ask whether the Government has or does not have the ability to reach a parliamentary agreement so that we can have a strong Portuguese position on this matter. But for the discomfort of the gentlemen. Members, what is true, in European terms, is that, after so many criticisms they make, they arrive in Brussels and the positions of the Portuguese extreme left are exactly the same as those of the European extreme right and those of the European extreme left. [[Protests of BE Members.]] in the background, they are all anti-European, anti-European, and sit at the same table when it is to veto measures for globalisation, etc. etc.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u26	Well remembered! [[Protests from BE, PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u27	That is why I challenge the Government to say whether it can have an agreement before everyone.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u28	More of a deep intervention than the ones we've been used to!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u29	Don't bother, Mr. Deputies. I know your choice wasn't the European Union, it was the Soviet Union, but unfortunately it didn't succeed! [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u30	Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u31	Mr President, I am grateful for the interventions and contributions of all banks and, if I may, I will first respond to two specific questions which have been raised and then focus on the White Paper published yesterday by the European Commission. The first specific question relates to the conditions of entry into force of the CETA. under applicable legal terms, CETA entered into provisional force only in part concerning the competences of the European Union as such. The ratification process, which has already begun, has already been ratified by a national parliament which has ratified the CETA, will extend and will require the approval of all parliaments so that the CETA can enter into force definitively and in the completeness of its provisions. The second question, raised above all by the banks of the Left Block, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Greens Ecological Party, is related to migration and migration management. I understand the critical comments and the doubts that they express about insistence, which they see as too much, in the dimension of security, but if I may, I would like to rest them, because the Portuguese position and the vast majority of the Member States are precisely that of those who do not reduce the size of security the management of migration. In fact, in order for it to be resolved, it is necessary to intervene in three complementary areas: the first concerns the security of the Union's external borders and the fight against trafficking in persons, which feeds much of the migration routes; the second is the dimension of development, i.e. the partnership work with the countries of origin and transit of migration, and from this point of view the European Union's neighbourhood policy is absolutely essential and the next summit between the European Union and Africa will have this as one of its main themes; and the third is the scrupulous respect for human rights, especially for the rights of refugees and asylum seekers. I will then focus on the fundamental issue of the White Paper on the future of Europe, of the European Commission, thanking everyone for their contributions. First of all, this is a White Paper. We may be more or less enthusiastic or somewhat disappointed about its content, but we should not forget its nature as a white book, that is, the information available and the orientation of a discussion that has to be held. This is not yet the time for the Commission to indicate ways, firstly, because it is not the Commission's responsibility for the final decision-making body and, secondly, because there cannot be a debate by defining its terms. Obviously this is a White Paper for the future of the European Union and therefore the five scenarios identified are always scenarios of integration of the European Union rather than of disintegration, disintegration or end of that Union. These scenarios are different and, like several Mrs. Members have well pointed out, which is expected as a final result, as a result of this debate, is a combination of elements from the various scenarios. The scenario one is merely incremental, but it has its virtualities, because even in this scenario, for example, it is well expressed a matter that mobilizes us all, which is the completion of economic and monetary union. The scenario two is unacceptable, because it would mean a scenario of regression or backwardness. Therefore, basically, with the need to change, we must reflect well and understand the best combination of scenarios three, four and five to be built. The scenario five actually draws an optimal integration scenario, but even this one is not without criticism. Mr Morgado warned of the temptation to create European super states and I would like to accompany him on that alert; the government follows him on that alert. Specifically, scenario five says less than it should say, as Mr Vitalino Canas has pointed out, on the issues of democracy of the European Union. The process of European integration must also be a process of deepening the democratic nature of the Union and the control of national parliaments, the European Parliament and European citizens as a whole.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u32	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u33	But scenario four, which has virtualities as a method, i.e., has a more clearly assumed emphasis on certain areas where European added value is generated, as presented, can lead to distortions that we cannot accept. The example given here is that of the European Union's de-investment in cohesion policies and social policies, and this is unacceptable to us, and I believe that the whole House is accompanying me in this direction. But the idea of a method of focusing more on the European Union in areas where European added value is generated is a useful idea. So, I wouldn't totally discard scenario four, I think we also have to work on it. But, of course, it would be a pity for the European Union to alienate the issues which it itself, more than anyone else, brought to the international agenda, including the climate agenda, the agenda for sustainable development. Even if the scenario were concentrated in certain areas, these areas would be all that Mr Morgan pointed out more to the agenda for sustainable development, plus the climate agenda, all that constitutes the European social model and the social market economy that is organised by Europeans. The scenario three, of variable geometry, is an unacceptable scenario if it means a fracture within the euro area or if it means relegating States to peripheral positions, instead of letting States freely choose the speed at which they want to follow European integration. But, made this rescue, it is also a scenario worth pointing out. The most important point — and, if Mr President allows me, with it, to finish — is the common basis for all this, and I would like to point out explicitly quoting the end of page 9 of the White Paper, that is, the introductory part, the part of the acquisition. It is therefore important to remember that, regardless of the scenarios and regardless of our debate, we are all aware today of the crisis that we are going through and of the need to complete « (...) economic and monetary union (...) », to strengthen « (...) the convergence of economic and social performance. (...) 'of the Member States of the European Union, to make the European economy a more inclusive, competitive, resilient economy', more oriented towards the future. This is our common basis, that is what makes the European spirit, that is what makes us, once again, to win the challenge facing the European Union today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u34	We thus conclude the debate on the priorities of the Maltese Presidency at the European Council, in accordance with Article 4 ( 1 ( b ). the Law No 43 / 2006, of 25 August 2006. Before we move on to the next item on the agenda, I give the floor to Secretary Pedro Alves to report on the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, several legislative initiatives: the projects of lein. 426 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Organization of the electoral process abroad ( amendment to Decree-Law No 95 - C / 76 of 30 January) ( BE) and 427 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Election rehabilitation of Portuguese citizens living abroad ( BE ), who fall to 1. the Commission ; Bill No 62 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — establishes the framework for the transfer of competences to local authorities and to inter-municipal entities, implementing the principles of subsidiarity, administrative decentralization and the autonomy of local authority, which falls to 1. the Commission ; and draft resolutions Nos 687 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Luxembourg ( President of the HR ), 688 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Extension of the period of operation of the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions ( RA President ), 689 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends the financing of the National Railway Museum ( BE ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 690 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the universality of pre-school education at the age of 3 be achieved by 2019 and the requirement at the age of 5 ( CDS-PP ) and 691 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Determines the elimination of tolls on A22 / Child Route ( BE ), which drops to 6. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u36	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the second item on the agenda is the general discussion of the proposal for a law No 57/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Sets minimum requirements for the protection of workers against the risks to safety and health to which they are or may be subject due to exposure to electromagnetic fields during work and transposes Directive 2013 / 35 / EU, the European Parliament and the Council of 26 June 2013. To present the bill, Mr. Secretary of State for Employment, Miguel Cabrita.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u37	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today a bill is under discussion which transposes a directive of the European Union in the field of safety and health at work to the Portuguese legal system. Minimum requirements for exposure of workers to risks due to electromagnetic fields are concerned. The legislative process, including the Community, interacts today with scientific knowledge and sometimes is somewhat out of hand with this scientific knowledge which, by its nature and by the advances of science, has advanced very rapidly. Indeed, the first directive on this subject dates from 2004. However, the deadline for transposition by the Member States was then postponed to allow the European Commission to present a new proposal, based on more recent scientific evidence and considered to be more solid. These successive delays were due to the fact that, following the entry into force of the 2004 Directive, interested parties, and in particular the medical community, have expressed serious reservations as to the potential effects of the application of the Directive in medical acts based on medical imaging, such as TACs (computed tomography). They are, above all, risks to professionals exposed to this technology in everyday life, with regularity or permanence. There were also concerns about the impact of the directive on certain industrial activities with particular exposure to electromagnetic fields, for the same reasons as those invoked by health professionals. After several consultations, the European Commission decided to rethink some of the provisions laid down in the 2004 Directive, based on new scientific information and opinions obtained from well-known international experts. It is the directive resulting from this interaction and dialectic between the Community legislator, the scientific community and the economic agents here seeking to transpose into the Portuguese legal system. The proposal currently under discussion incorporates in national legislation a set of minimum safety and health requirements at work in relation to exposure of workers to risks due to physical agents, electromagnetic fields, for the benefit of workers and professionals most exposed to this type of phenomenon. These measures aim not only to ensure the safety and health of each worker individually considered in the performance of their duties but also to create a minimum protection platform for all workers, while reducing any effects of distortions in competition that could result from inadequate regulation of these levels of protection. We believe that with the transposition of this directive, our country will have a more adequate legal arrangement and not only with better conditions for compliance with European standards, but above all with better conditions for the protection of workers in national territory, particularly those with higher levels of exposure to physical agents, such as electromagnetic fields. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u38	The Bureau asks the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who wish to speak in the debate, please sign up. However, for an intervention, Mrs Sofia Araújo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries : Electromagnetic fields are naturally present in the universe. However, with the development of technology, exposure to new sources of electromagnetic radiation has increased and, with it, concern about its potential health risks. Currently, we live surrounded by electromagnetic fields, whether at home, at work or even on the street. We live in an environment literally taken by waves and radiation of the most varied types: radio, television, mobile, satellite communication, electromagnetic radiation produced by the passage of electricity, through a worldwide network of countless cables and wires. Our civilization is thus powered by energy, but all the blessings that its large-scale use makes possible have a high price, which is not only the one we pay in the monthly accounts of light or telephone. The World Health Organization ( WHO ) states: « Electromagnetic pollution is today one of the most common and fastest growing environmental influences», expressing serious concern about its effects on health. The report adds: “All of us around the world are exposed to it, and its levels continue to rise as technology advances. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Several studies have been conducted in order to assess the consequences of exposure to electromagnetic fields to health, particularly at the level of reproduction and possible carcinogenic effects. On the basis of this knowledge, the European Council made a recommendation in June 1999 on limiting population exposure to electromagnetic fields. This recommendation was transposed into Portuguese legislation in November 2004 through Ordinance No 1421/2004. These two documents were based on another more general document drawn up by the International Commission for the Protection of Non-Ionizing Radiation ( ICNIRP ), which considers not only the exposure of the general population but also of the professional worker. Inaugurated in 1970, Deutsche Welle's radio station in Sines, Profunk, was in operation until 2011. This station emits in short wave to various points of the world. at the end of about 20 years, the company posted plates with the following information: « Hazard — Radiation — Do not stay more than 5 minutes ». More than one worker died, a cancer victim, among them my father. Can we say that the cause of this disease was the exposure to which they were subjected? Of course not! But there will always be doubt. This bill lays down measures to ensure the safety and health of all workers exposed to risks. Because it is important to prevent situations like these, and given the importance that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is proud to attribute itself to the defence of workers' rights and safety, it is also very pleased to see today, here, this initiative of the Government. [[Congrats from the PS and the BE Member José Moura Soeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u40	Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The proposed law now under discussion, on the protection of workers against risks to safety and health, due to exposure of electromagnetic fields during work, transposes a 2013 directive and either the directive or this bill is the result of recommendations of the International Commission for the Protection of Non-Ionizing Radiation. This is a matter to which the European Union has always given particular importance, seeking to protect the health of all workers exposed to the risks of biophysical, direct and indirect effects of electromagnetic fields. Even because there are already known harmful effects that occur in the short term in the human body, caused by the circulation of currents induced by energy absorption, and therefore it is important that there are preventive and not merely reactive measures. The application of the precautionary principle is therefore also required. But, as you know, the long-term effects of exposure to these fields are not yet sufficiently studied and have not established a causal relationship. It is important, therefore, that both the European Union and Portugal continue to monitor legislative scientific advances that will be achieved, from the outset, future recommendations of the International Commission I referred to. But it is not enough, I repeat, to pass a law to say that the problem is solved. It is important to study the impact of these radiations and also of legislation in the world of work in Portugal. We are registering and asking whether there is any strategy for disseminating and raising awareness among companies and workers. What is this strategy? What will be done by public entities, in particular by the Working Conditions Authority ( ACT )? And in the Ministry of Health, what follow-up will be given to this subject? I repeat: the simple transposition of directives into Portuguese legislation, without being studied its impact in Portugal and without a strategy that makes them applicable on the ground, is little, and expected more of the government. For this reason, the CDS follows this bill, but wishes much more to be done in the monitoring of companies, public entities and in the protection of workers. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u42	You now have the floor to Mrs Helga Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss Bill No 57 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ), which establishes minimum requirements for the protection of workers against the risks to the safety and health to which they are or may be subject due to exposure to electromagnetic fields during work. The proposal under discussion aims at transposition into the Portuguese legal order of Directive 2013 / 35 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council, which deals with matters of greatest relevance, such as minimum protection requirements for workers in relation to exposure to electromagnetic fields. It is therefore intended to establish the limit values of exposure and its levels of action on the basis of the recommendations of the International Commission for the Protection of Non-Ionizing Radiation. Given this, it is essential to introduce preventive measures, which include the adequacy and adaptation of the means to the workplace, including the appropriate choice of equipment at the time of the granting of jobs, thus enabling the levels of exposure to electromagnetic fields to be improved. This is a matter that aims to protect the safety and health of workers, requires a serious and constructive analysis, for which the PSD is, as it has always been, entirely available. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today there is a greater awareness of the need for adequate means of work, and that is what this Directive aims to do: to warn of the need for an efficient and effective risk assessment and for the opportunity to create a protection system that brings together the different exposure risks, in a simple, graduated and easily understandable way.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u44	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u45	The PSD remains committed, as it has always been, to European construction. As such, it cannot fail to value the adequacy of measures that promote the improvement of working conditions and protection of workers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u46	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u47	... so that measures aimed at the adequacy of working conditions, strengthening prevention mechanisms, eliminating risks and simplifying procedures are measures to which we certainly associate ourselves. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to finish — and we will have time, as a specialist, to continue to discuss this issue — I stress the need to strengthen preventive measures, since the granting of jobs, which goes, in particular, through the appropriate choice of equipment and the adequacy of working methods, objectives that we defend and which have been the target of several legislative measures. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u48	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u49	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are discussing today the transposition of a directive on minimum safety and health requirements in relation to exposure of workers to risks, due to electromagnetic fields, covering workers from different sectors. This is a matter that has been discussed for several years, and the CFP has always defended the need for, with the possibility of risk to the health of workers, prevention measures have been taken regarding exposure to electromagnetic fields. In fact, in the European Parliament, we have pointed out our disagreement about the delays in this matter because we understand that they have meant that a huge number of workers have been deprived of the protection of health and safety at work. We therefore believe that this transposition is a positive step towards ensuring measures that safeguard the health and safety of workers exposed to risk, bearing in mind that the right to work in conditions of hygiene, safety and health is a right provided for in our Constitution of the Republic. The diploma under discussion provides for the assessment of exposure risks to electromagnetic fields, and the employer must carry out the same assessment at the workplace, as well as the measurement or calculation of the levels of electromagnetic fields to which the worker is exposed. The diploma also provides for measures to reduce exposure, including through the use of alternative working methods, the choice of equipment based on work to be carried out or the application of measures limiting and controlling access, as well as the provision of appropriate personal protective equipment, among other proposals, which are within the scope of technical and organisational measures to be taken by the employer to minimize the exposure of workers, in particular in situations where the levels of action are exceeded. In addition, specific prevention and protection measures are planned for particular situations, as well as the need for information, consultation and training of workers, and it is up to the employer to ensure that workers are exposed to risks arising from electromagnetic fields, as well as their representatives for safety and health at work, necessary and appropriate information and training. The employer should also ensure adequate surveillance of workers' health with the objective of preventing and early diagnosis of any harmful health effects resulting from exposure to electromagnetic fields. These are positive points in this proposal and, in general, it is a proposal that deserves our follow-up, without prejudice to the fact that it can be improved in its discussion in the specialty, since it is the responsibility of employers to take action in relation to protection, prevention, exposure of workers to risks due to electromagnetic fields, but it is also important to ensure their effective and proper compliance and to find monitoring mechanisms that detect possible non-compliances, so that they can then act accordingly. It is precisely in this sense that the CFP is available to work in this discussion, in the specialty, more in depth. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u50	Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen: when we discuss a bill transposing a European directive on safety and health issues at work, it is important to mention two things. Firstly, concerns about hygiene and safety at work should be taken into account by all parliamentary groups. in this context, because the proposed law has the indication of the minimums and minimum requirements for such protection, I would like to ask how this information will specifically reach businesses and workers and, where appropriate, workers' representatives, so that this information, which is very relevant and very important, especially in some sectors of activity, can easily reach workers. Secondly, this is a subject which will certainly continue to deserve the attention of the European Commission not only at legislative level but also here in Portugal because of the important issue of the balance between technological advances and health and the protection of workers. And we have a few examples here in Portugal, in how these technological advances, particularly in the field of health, have very recently allowed some kind of compensation to workers, for example uranium mines, because of the physical consequences that certain works, in the long term, associated with certain chemicals and others, have in the health of those who work in these places. Therefore, it is something that should be closely followed by the Ministry of Labour, in conjunction with scientific research in the most diverse sectors, so that we can make further progress not only in what, a priori, are risk prevention measures but also in subsequent follow-up measures to these harmful impacts on the lives of workers. Thirdly, because it is not clear in the proposal for a law, the question arises of how the monitoring of these measures, which are now being implemented, will happen specifically in some sectors of work, knowing of the difficulties already existing by the Act to monitor all the cases that come to it. Finally, this proposal does not yet cover the long-term effects of exposure to electromagnetic fields because it is considered that a causal relationship is not yet scientifically established. however, we would like to leave the note that it is necessary to monitor these possible long-term effects because, although there may not yet be any scientific study that specifically says they exist, we know it is very likely that it is so. Therefore, we call for follow-up in these matters. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u52	For a final intervention, Mr Secretary of State for Employment has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u53	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I thank you for the speeches you have made and for the contributions that have been made to this debate. I believe that one of the things that is clear from this debate is the fact that it is a complex matter and that the interaction of scientific knowledge, by the very nature of scientific knowledge, is questionable and is sometimes not very easy to establish definitive scientific elements. It was a process that took almost a decade, within the European Union, to achieve a result that somehow linked countries to a transposition and levels of exposure to radiation that were considered to be consensual from international entities. Obviously this debate is never closed, because new scientific evidence may lead to the reassessment of those who are the appropriate levels of protection. A relevant issue that was raised by Mrs Pires has to do with the dissemination of these matters. Of course, among the most exposed sectors there will be an effort to disseminate. The Act itself will work together as well as the sectors themselves. In fact, in part, for example, the health sector, the public sector, has also a very important role to play in the dissemination itself. with regard to the dimension of safety and health at work more generally, responding a little to Mr Carlos Monteiro, I mean that, of course, there is a national strategy, which will know for sure, for these matters, but this strategy, in order to be consequent, must be led by ACT, fundamentally. So when you say that this proposal falls short of what would be expected...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u54	Mr. Secretary of State, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u55	I shall conclude, Mr President. The honourable Member says that this proposal falls short of what would be expected. I must tell you that one of the government's known bets is precisely that of the strengthening of the Act, and in particular in a matter where the previous Government had withdrawn protection from the Act, which is that of the security and health issues at work specifically in the State, and the current Government is rightly responding to them. And, therefore, as one of the sectors most affected by these issues is the public sector in the field of health, it will surely also be an object of monitoring and supervision, specifically on safety and health issues at work. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u56	Mrs. Members, the general discussion of Bill No 57 / XIII ( 2 ) is concluded. ( a). We shall begin the general assessment of Bill No 58/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — establishes the principles and rules of cross-border exchange of information relating to the practice of road offences in a Member State and transposes Directive 2015 / 413 / EU. To present the bill, Mr. Secretary of State of the Internal Administration has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Let's talk about road safety in the European perspective. We're talking about reducing the number of deaths, injuries and material damage. We are talking about the difficulties encountered in the application of monetary sanctions relating to certain types of road infringements when committed with a vehicle registered in a Member State other than that in which the infringement was committed. To end the feeling of impunity and inequality, in view of the application of the law, this situation is what is intended to be achieved with this legislative proposal. thus, it will be possible to contribute to a change of behavior on the road and, consequently, to the reduction of the number of deaths, injuries and material damage. Directive 2015 / 413 / EU of Parliament and of the Council of 11 March 2015 transposed by this proposal of the law aims to facilitate cross-border exchange of information, road offences in a Member State of the European Union by vehicles registered in another Member State, other than that of the infringement. in this way, it is possible to identify and notify the holder of the vehicle registration certificate for the purposes of lifting auto road control. For the purposes of this legislative proposal, the electronic platform of the European System of Information on Vehicles and Driving Letters ( Eucaris) is used, whose implementation and operationality is the responsibility of the Institute of Registers and Notaries, IP, an entity under the supervision of the Ministry of Justice, which is also responsible for ensuring access to it by the traffic controllers. There are several road offences covered by this proposal for a law, as provided for in the Road Code and additional legislation: excessive speed, driving without safety belt, driving under alcohol and narcotics, among others. All so dangerous to the safety of drivers, passengers and pawns! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the legislative proposal before you, and I hope it will be approved by this House, symbol of national democracy, aims at improving the safety of all Portuguese and Portuguese people on the roads of our country and also aims to contribute to strengthening security on European roads. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u58	Mr. Hélder Amaral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u59	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This initiative which the Government brings here, in order to strengthen the exchange of information related to road infringement practices in the Member States, does not deserve us to oppose it, on the contrary. All that can be done to improve road safety, which is a matter for which Portugal has very positive data and is even a good example of the effort it has made to reduce road safety and to make road safety a priority, is important. For us, the essential thing is the rigour in training and more information, but on this initiative, which the Government brings us, to try to find a balance or even a principle of equality between the Member States and the infringements produced in each Member State, the exchange of information seems quite positive to us, as is explained in the explanatory statement. There are indeed difficulties in the exchange of information, difficulties in finding and identifying offenders of the various road offences in each Member State, and therefore the proposed mechanisms seem reasonable to us. however, what we find necessary to consider or, at least, discuss later, perhaps more specifically, has to do with what the National Data Protection Commission alerts. That is, if it is true that the objectives and general principles deserve us agreement, if it is true that there must be a fight against the feeling of impunity and even inequality here, and that it can ultimately enhance some less road safety, it is also true that, obviously, the personal data to be communicated, as the National Data Protection Commission says, should be restricted to the minimum mandatory for the identification of offenders, as well as the time period when these same data are available, because, according to the National Data Protection Commission, and this is also our opinion, are somewhat excessive for what the objectives are, the need for arrest and identification of the offender. On the other hand, and this is a matter of detail, the Directive speaks in person responsible for the infringement, i.e. it goes directly to the offender, and the bill refers to the holder or holder of the vehicle identification document. There may be some divergence, some discrepancy, which, on the limit, may lead to an excess of information, which, in this case, is not necessary. I repeat : we agree with the principles, but we would like to see that the identification, protection of data from potential offenders, in the national case, could have supported and agreed with what the National Data Protection Commission says. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u60	Mr. Jorge Machado has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u61	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This Directive is intended to facilitate cross-border exchange of information in respect of road offences. The difficulty in applying monetary penalties is indeed the reason and reason for this Directive. This Directive establishes the database, who are the users empowered to access it, describes the infringements to which the legal regime applies and the use of the database and, on the other hand, creates a random monitoring mechanism for the data that have been misused. It is here, Mr Secretary of State, that arises the doubts of the CFP which, in our view, is important to ascertain in the field of expertise. That is to say, a random monitoring mechanism is created, and a mechanism is not created that allows preventive monitoring. The use of this database should be subject to the strict need for concrete counter-ordination processes and random use without associating with a particular case may lead to misuse and undue access of data, which deserves our concern. The proposed law does not thus create a priori preventive control mechanism that prevents improper use of the database. Associating database research into a concrete counter-ordination process whose registration is being investigated would be an important mechanism for preventing improper use for the PCP. This is, of course, to be discussed in the field of expertise with a view to improving the diploma. There are no fundamental objections to the scope, the overall objective of the directive and the bill, there are effectively mechanisms that need to be improved in defending the privacy of all of us. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u62	For an intervention, Mr António Gameiro, of the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The proposed law that is under discussion is on the right track. The Government and Portugal continue on the path and, in 2014, when we discussed here an initiative by the previous government that intended to transpose the previous directive, we gave our consent to this political initiative. Today, the PS Government comes again, for European reasons and for the annulment of the previous directive, to bring to this House the discussion of a proposal that improves the drafting of the previous law, Law No. 4 / 2014, in those aspects that we had raised especially here in plenary. In fact, today the Government is presenting a proposal that improves the situation, with the aim of achieving even better figures with regard to road-trafficking. Even today we have received data on sinisterness and we have seen that, for the same period of last year, between January and February, we have improved data, with fewer accidents in the country and fewer deaths. This is a path that started back there, adequately, in the governments of Antonio Guterres. So, from 1995 to here we have had a set of measures, government, which has improved and reduced the number of deaths on the road, the number of accidents, and the fight against sinlessness must be a national flag of all parties, of all Portuguese. In fact, this fight, which today is with good results, happens because there is more and better road management, more and better relief to victims, better vehicle control, better maintenance of infrastructure, which, although many have criticized its construction in Portugal, today are gradually giving results of citizenship and quality of life to Portuguese, leading every day to changes in Portuguese behaviour on the road. Therefore, the way in which the governments of Portugal have taken side by side with the European institutions has resulted in better road conditions, more secure and in a fight against the feeling of impunity that many had when they left the Portuguese borders. From today on, the Portuguese are in a position of equality with all Europeans and, reciprocally, all Europeans are in the same situation as the Portuguese. From the borders of Portugal, it must comply with the rules of transit for that outside Europe, knowing that the EUCARIS system and its platform will lead to notifications being made—and will not be in any language—in Portuguese or in an official language of the European Union, as this bill states. This is a very significant improvement that we wanted here to underline, such as the fight against impunity and low sinocality. I am sure that in the field of specialty we will have the opportunity to, here or there, to fine-tune some terminology that seems to me to change. Well done to the government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u64	Mr José Silvano, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u65	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This bill transposes Directive 2015 / 413 / EU, the European Parliament and the Council, which aims to facilitate cross-border exchange of information on infringements of traffic rules related to road safety, allowing the identification and notification of the holder of the vehicle identification document in which the infringement was committed. It is intended to be applied whenever the practice of road infringements within the national territory with the use of a vehicle registered in another Member State of the European Union or in the territory of another Member State with the use of a vehicle registered in Portugal is observed. The difficulties encountered in the application of monetary sanctions relating to certain types of road infringements when committed with a vehicle registered in a Member State other than that in which the infringement was committed, which enables the creation of a feeling of impunity and inequality in the face of the enforcement of the law that it is necessary to combat, are evident. In addition, the legal system must also ensure equal treatment for all drivers, whether they are national or foreign. What this Directive proposes is the most efficient cross-border exchange of data with regard to the registration of vehicles that facilitate the identification of persons suspected of having committed a road infringement, amplifying the deterrent effect and leading to more cautious behaviour of those drivers, also contributing to the reduction of the number of victims of road accidents. For the purposes of this Act, the national contact point is the IRN (Instituto de Registrets and the Notariado) and it is up to it to ensure access to the EUCARIS electronic platform by the traffic controllers. As data sharing is concerned, it is necessary to ensure that the proposed solutions respect the general principles of protection of personal data, in particular as regards the identification of those responsible for the processing, the specification of the purposes and the limitation of the data treated, as recognised by the National Data Protection Commission. In conclusion, it should be noted that what is at stake in this initiative are three key factors. The aim of this initiative is to combat road-trafficking, which is very important, to combat impunity for drivers of these vehicles and to combat the feeling of inequality in these matters. We understand that this is another step in the fight against road fatality and the reduction of road accidents. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u66	For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Cunha from the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: This proposal for a law brought here by the Government and intended to transpose Directive 2015 / 413 / EU of the European Parliament and of the Council to the national legal system, aims to facilitate the exchange of information on road offences in the various Member States. We know that the difficulty of developing counter-ordinations, infringements and, in particular, sanctions, and of obtaining these sanctions is a reality that deserves attention and deserves treatment in order to facilitate this whole process. It is obvious that the opening of borders generates greater mobility and greater circulation of individual transport, with the greatest use of individual road transport, and it is also obvious that commercial road transport has, and has, a great role and a great relevance in this matter. Therefore, we realize that the exchange of information regarding data from drivers and vehicles is important. In any case, we want to mention our concern about the subject of data protection. The need to respond and comply with the European Commission's alerts on data privacy must be met with regard to the exchange of information. We also believe that, despite the proposed law to deal with this matter in order to comply with this legality and data protection, it can go a little further, ensuring that all database consultations are duly validated, that access is made to the minimum necessary data and, above all, that there are only accesses arising from the infringement or infringements to which they concern, that is, as has already been said, ensuring that consultation is associated with that specific infringement. Although only two years have been registered, if no other measures are taken to limit access to that particular case, to that situation and to that concrete infringement, this can result in abusive research and consultations. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u68	To close this debate, Mr. Secretary of State of the Internal Administration has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was almost transversal to all parties the great concern about data protection. However, because we are also concerned, this consultation is made through the EUCARIS platform, which is dependent on the Ministry of Justice and the Institute of Registers and the Notariado, which guarantees a certain security at the end of the data transmission. But it is my conviction that, in the specialty discussion, this House will be able to greatly improve this aspect of data protection. We have a final opinion which has been sent to us by the National Data Protection Commission, but we also have a new opinion which has been sent to this House and I understand that, with the work that you are working on. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be no harm to the citizen, who is the fundamental. Even so, we need to be aware of the fact that the directive itself being transposed does not force all data to be mandatory. In other words, there are mandatory and optional data, and there we can also, in a limited way, force the consultation to be made specifically for counter-ordination and for the car and that it is no longer extended to cover other types of data. It is also up to us, the government, and to the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, make the safety tables so that all of this can happen as we all want. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u70	Let us now move on to the next item on our agenda, which is generally discussed in Bill No 59 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — adapts to the domestic legal system the obligations arising from Decision 2008 / 615 / JHA, and the Decision 2008 / 616 / JHA implementing it, as the data transmission of the registration of vehicles for the purposes of detection and investigation of criminal offences. To present the bill, Mr. Justice Minister Francisca Van Dunem has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In a sense, we are talking here about another dimension of the EUCARIS platform. The proposed law which the Government brings to Parliament today aims to transpose into the domestic legal order a set of obligations resulting from the so-called Prüm acquis. The collection of Prüm, as you know, involves the direct transmission between States of the European Union, in a system of total availability, of data in three key segments: DNA, datiloscopy and vehicle information data. What we are bringing here today has to do with the transmission of vehicle information, which is a transmission made exclusively for criminal proceedings and, of course, access is conditional on the nature of the judicial authority or criminal police body in relation to persons who can access it. Obviously, there is a set of guarantees associated with this, from the outset guarantees related to data protection, that I realize it is a great concern here in Parliament and it is also our concern. I would say that this bill fits into the best standards at the level of data protection, since it responds to all those who are access obligations, in matters of temporary restriction and also in matters of adequacy and need for consultation. I would also say that with this proposal the Government completes the second part of the necessary response in terms of the Prüm acquis and I must also say that at the moment this project has a normative and technological dimension and that the latter is advanced and ready to test as soon as this part is approved here. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u72	Mr Fernando Negrão has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u73	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to stress that we are talking about international cooperation and in the area of combating the most dangerous forms of crime — organised crime, cybercrime and terrorism — and we are also talking about exchanging information. But we're not talking about databases, we're talking about platforms that set up databases to talk to each other and it's good that this should be clarified, since, sometimes, there seems to be some confusion in this concept. One of the first perplexities, Mrs Minister, and I address to you, is the fact that this is a structured and complete system, legislative initiatives do not all come into a legislative package: fingerprints have not yet come; we now have the vehicle registration, very well, we are discussing them and going to the specialty; we have had the DNA, which needs improvements, and we still have no information on the single point of contact. Madam Minister, I ask: why does this not come in a legislative package? We are discussing this matter of the greatest importance in stages, that is, in a shared way, which makes it coherent in the discussion. In addition, Mrs Minister, this diploma does not establish the necessary link with the Swedish initiative, which has been transposed into Law No 72 / 2009, which defines the rules of operation in the exchange of information between Member States. If we read this diploma carefully we find that the same seems to exist alone, it does not appear to be connected with the bodies, not only internal as external ones, which must work in conjunction with the Member States of the European Union, and I would draw attention internally to the need to articulate with the Integrated Criminal Information System. Question : Why is the Integrated Criminal Information System not included in this legislative initiative? Is there any connection to the Integrated Criminal Information System? I will come back to the other issue I have already mentioned, which is that of the single point of contact. This legislative initiative does not refer to the single point of contact. I ask you, Minister : why does not you make that reference, which is of the greatest importance, since this is the whole framework that we are interested in discussing about information exchange at European Union level? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u74	Mr Fernando Anastácio has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u75	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: We must first welcome the legislative initiative of the Government. Having just heard Mr Fernando Negrão's speech, I was moved to reflect on whether the PSD will be in a process of self-criticism because since 2011 I have, in fact, repeated since 2011 that the deadline for Portugal to transpose into the internal legal order of the issues which Mr Negrão refers to as being missing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I know that four years is a long time, but this government did not need four years, it only took him about a year to please here the almost generality of the issues that were missing and that were not resolved from the Prüm acquis, which is 2008 and which I repeat in 2011 should have been transposed into the domestic legal order. In particular, this bill aims, in an innovative way, to contribute to the effective strengthening of freedom, security and justice in the European Union, objectives for which the Treaty of Prüm has greatly contributed. Do so by promoting the deepening of cross-border cooperation, in particular in the field of combating terrorism and cross-border crime, with the incorporation into the European Union of a set of administrative and technical implementation tools to make this fight more effective. This bill ensures the necessary requirements for the transmission and reception of such data, without jeopardizing the protection of personal data, establishing the EUCARIS computer application as a platform for the exchange of data relating to vehicle owners or users and data and also establishing the IRN as a national contact point competent for the operationality of this platform. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the entry into force of this diploma, the requirements necessary for the transmission and reception of data relating to the registration of vehicles, their automated consultation, where the EUCARIS computer application and the national contact point, in the case of IRN, will be essential axes. Cross-border cooperation and the fight against crime and terrorism in Portugal and within the framework of the European Union are a priority, a national priority which the Government assumes and to which Parliament, with the approval of this bill, will certainly be associated. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u76	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u77	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: This legislative initiative gives us some consideration. We are faced with another legislative initiative in favour of combating terrorism, which is not original. Moreover, all the initiatives put forward in recent years that, near or far, relate to justice or internal security, always invoke the fight against terrorism as their motivation, even if, and this is the case, the adequacy of this reference does not play with exactly the one that is the object of the legislative initiative. Therefore, what we are talking about here is creating a supranationalization of database access, in this case of vehicle registration, but we know that the Prüm acquis points to the supranationalization of access to information from a set of data, including more relevant than those, such as the DNA databases. That is why the question is whether we are not facing a security drift which always calls for the fight against terrorism. So the fight against terrorism legitimates everything, even what does not have a link of adequacy or proportionality as to what is intended to be achieved. Therefore, as soon as the fight against terrorism is invoked, we are faced with a secure ideology that allows all initiatives to be taken but that, including always calling for the protection of personal data, makes us face initiatives that raise great questions about the effectiveness of these guarantees, and this is an initiative that fits precisely in this area. That is, we have the biggest doubts, with this supranationalization of access to personal databases, that it is possible to provide guarantees of protection of all data involved and guarantees of the suitability of all accesses that can be made to these databases with this supranational framework. This is therefore an initiative that actually raises serious reservations from this point of view, knowing that, obviously, we are in the context of the transposition of commitments made by the Portuguese State at the international level, but we still believe that there are certain reservations that must be manifested, because the invocation of the fight against terrorism must not legitimise all kinds of measures to build a security ideology before which we have questions about the extent to be taken in contemporary society. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u78	Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u79	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members : I would like to begin with a previous note to tell the Socialist Party, specifically Mr Fernando Anastácio, which was already the time when there were Community directives for transposing in the area of justice and in the area of internal administration for more than 10 years, Mr Anastácio. In order to tell you that, in fact, in this matter, this bench and the former government do not accept lessons from anyone. Mrs. Minister, I'd like to tell you, in a very simple and direct way, that the CDS follows... [[PS Member Filipe Neto Brandão's laughs.]] Listen, listen, Mr. Deputies! The CDS monitors the objectives and purposes of this bill, which essentially aims to establish a set of principles and rules for cross-border exchange of information on the registration of vehicles between national authorities and authorities of other Member States. This is about adapting to the internal legal order of the current obligations of the Prüm Decisions, but it is also about improving the exchange of information in the prevention and investigation of criminal offences. This is, therefore, an important concern which, of course, we are accompanying, but it is also a necessary answer. I would also like to say, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who, generally speaking, agree with the proposed law that the Minister has tabled, however, we believe that there is a need for some caution in relation to the observations made by the National Data Protection Commission and that, from our point of view, special care should be given in the field of specialty. In fact, the National Data Protection Commission, in addition to expressing its clear objection to the fact that the Institute of Registers and Notary the national point of contact in this area, even raising reservations as to the competence vis-à-vis the legal framework and the qualifications of the Institute of Registers and Notaries themselves in order to be able to respond to this important task and to the work that is supposed to do following this bill, also presents a set of reservations either regarding the time limit for the preservation of this information, considering the five years an excessive period of time, either the clear rules of obligation to conduct audit records covering all consultations carried out by the national authorities or the obligation to register in all operations carried out by the Member States. from our point of view, Mrs Minister, these aspects must be well thought out, improved and, above all, deserve a response from this Parliament in the field of expertise. I would just like to conclude by saying that I follow the comments made by Mr Fernando Negrão in his opinion drawn up at 1. the Commission and, Madam Minister, which is essentially a right path and therefore deserves follow-up by the CDS. however, it is necessary to improve the diploma as a specialist, responding to the concerns of the National Data Protection Commission, and that is the work that Parliament is supposed to be able to do. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u80	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u81	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mrs. Members: The diploma now under consideration, as the Minister mentioned at the beginning of her speech, is part of a database exchange initiative, which includes, among other things, the DNA databases which, several times, have already been discussed here in this Parliament and on which not the DNA database but the exchange of that information - the opinion of the Left Block is also well known. We are making, in the name of the fight against terrorism, a profound attack on the defence of individual rights in relation to the protection of citizens' data. This is always done in Europe with this narrative that it is the fight against terrorism that leads us to make a terraplanation of these rights. from our point of view, as we have said several times, the defence of the peoples with regard to terrorism, the attack on terrorists, the defence of terrorist attacks can never go through the reduction, suppression and elimination of citizens' rights, or the suspension of citizens' rights, as is often the case. If so, we are giving terrorists a huge flag, which is the reduction of the civil advancements that our societies have achieved. I think this is the main problem on the table. We can say from this diploma that it is related to databases of minor relevance in this context, but in fact it is another piece of the "Lego" which is on the table. Therefore, it is to be expected that the Left Block will depart from this intention. In fact, she has already deserved our distancing in the past. To conclude, I leave this idea: we are moving from an international scenario of cooperation between States to respond to such situations, to situations of terrorism, to a complete opening up of the exchange of information that often does not put on the table the protection of citizens' rights to the reservation of their individual data. We will see, in future, that this path has not brought us an improvement in the attack on terrorism, it has brought us, above all, a reduction and a backwardness in defending the rights of citizens, which is our concern and hence our distance from this whole process. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u82	Mr Fernando Anastácio, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for a second speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u83	Mr President, Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila, in fact, does not receive lessons, but does not do what he has to do either. I am sorry that you did not follow the PSD process of self-criticism ; here, in fact, the coalition did not work. While some acknowledged that they were unable to do so, in the specific case of the CDS has not yet been able to risk this stage of self-criticism. In fact, I am sorry but four years was more than enough to have solved what this government managed to solve in about a year. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u84	For a final speech, Mr. Justice Minister Francisca Van Dunem has the floor to whom I would like to congratulate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There have been various objections here, the first of which I would say that it is an objection in principle to this type of initiatives which, in some way, include within the Union the possibility of access to a set of information from different countries within the framework of justice and internal administration. I would say that, probably, what makes most sense is the defence of justice being done in the European institutions, and of course also here, because that is where it is necessary, at this point, to assume that there is a need to protect what is the justice segment at the expense of excessively secure logic. The second question has to do with a mix between the Swedish decision and the Prüm agreements, which appeared here by Mr Fernando Negrão. I must say the following: with regard to the first question you have raised, that of the fairness of the joint treatment of these issues...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u86	I ask the ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen who are standing to sit down because it makes a lot of noise and you cannot listen carefully to the words of the Minister. I appreciate you feeling or leaving, please. You want to continue, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u87	I would say to you that, as you know, the difficulty in the joint treatment of the Prüm acquis has to do with technological issues and you know what has happened and what has prevented them all from being treated at the same time and with the same degree of speed. On the issue of registers and notariats, the problems of the site, the headquarters and the issues associated with data protection, let me note the following: firstly, what we have here is not exactly a database exchange, it is access to databases and, in this case, records that are public records — let us pay attention! in other cases, we can discuss differently but here are public records and therefore what it is about is to be able to access the distance and directly to a public register in a Member State of the European Union. With regard to the question of the five years, which Mr Filipe Lobo d'Ávila raised, I would remind you that we are here talking about a criminal trial and that,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u88	Mrs. Minister, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u89	It's just a minute, Mr. President. ... according to the national criminal data conservation portal, the period is effectively five years. So we have only one equation here, there is nothing different about what exists today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u90	Mrs. Members, we have reached the end of the fourth item on the agenda, with the general discussion of the proposal for a law No 59 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). We shall then take note of the motions for resolutions Nos 44 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Headquarters Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Organization of Ibero-American States for Education, Science and Culture, signed in Lisbon on 4 October 2016, and 45 / XIII / 2. a — Approves the amendments to the Agreement on the establishment of the Common Fund for Commodities adopted by the Board of Governors on 10 December 2014 without any time allocated for discussion, so we are now at the voting stage. I request the services to operate the electronic system for the verification of quorum. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic table records 208 presences, to which three Members are added. Members who were unable to sign up electronically, Mrs Ana Catarina Mendes and Mrs Sandra Pontedeira of the PS and Mr Pedro Soares of the BE. We therefore have a total of 211 Members present, so we have quorum to vote. Let us begin by voting vote No 232 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Congratulations on the choice of Mónica Ferro for UN Head of Regional Agency ( PSD, PS and CDS-PP ). In the meantime, I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to proceed with the reading of this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u91	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The Assembly welcomes the appointment of Dr. Monica Ferro as Director of the United Nations Population Fund in Geneva. Currently serving as a university professor at the Higher Institute of Social and Political Sciences, Monica Ferro was appointed to the Assembly of the Republic in the XII legislature, elected on the PSD lists, and was also Secretary of State for Defence in the XX Constitutional Government. in its passage through the Portuguese Parliament, Monica Ferro coordinated with a remarkable commitment the Portuguese Parliamentary Group on Population and Development, which dealt precisely with all the matters that form part of the competences of the United Nations Population Fund that will now lead. He was also Vice-President of the European Parliamentary Forum on Population and Development. Mónica Ferro was chosen by the United Nations through an international competition, after an individual candidacy, and constitutes a further recognition of its qualities and competences. The United Nations thus once again trusts a Portuguese citizen to perform one of the most responsible positions in the structure of the organization. Through this vote, the Assembly of the Republic congratulates Dr. Monica Ferro on the prestigious functions she will perform, wishing her the greatest personal success and the United Nations Population Fund. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u92	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[The vote was put to the vote in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the Members of the PS Renato Sampaio and Ascension Simões.]] Mr Renato Sampaio asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u93	Mr President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u94	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. We shall now turn to the appraisal of votes No 233 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemnation by « Holodomor » - Great hunger in 1932 and 1933, which occurred in Ukraine ( PSD, CDS-PP and 1 PS Member ) and 235 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Honoring the victims of Great Hunger in Ukraine ( PS ). A debate before the vote was requested — and this will be done — with two minutes for each Parliamentary Group. Mr Sérgio Azevedo has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Great Ukrainian hunger, known as the 'Holodomor', was one of the most disastrous acts ever seen in the history of humanity caused by the hatred of a totalitarian regime, planned with a cynicism and cruelty that shames all and any people who rely on humanist principles and respect for the most basic rights that all citizens have to attend. The submission of the Ukrainian people to hunger in the 30th century, which led to the death of millions of people, constituted a premeditated massacre only comparable to the ignominy and wickedness of the persecutions and deaths carried out by Nazism. The genesis of the massacre of « Holodomor » is summarized by these words that I quote, Molotov, member of the Politburo and responsible for the campaigns of harvest requirements in Ukraine : « The question is: if we have bread, we have Soviet power. If we don't have bread, the Soviet power will eventually disappear. Now, who has the bread? They are the reactionary Ukrainian peasants and the reactionary shells of Kuban. They won't give us the bread of free will. They will have to be removed'. It was against this kind of ideological transformationism, which was imposed by death, that raised the legacy that left us all those who fought for freedom, for democratic regimes and for interest and respect for fundamental rights and freedoms. The European Parliament has already consecrated the European day in memory of the victims of Stalinism and Nazism. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe has already described this as a crime against humanity, the hunger caused by the Stalin regime to the people of Ukraine, but also Moldova, Kazakhstan, Belarus and Russia itself. There have been several democratic parliaments that respect political plurality and protect fundamental freedoms that have already recognized the "Holodomor" as one of the most barbaric acts in the history of humanity. It is time to associate ourselves with this recognition so that there is no future without memory, so that the lantern of human rights, fundamental freedoms and principles that fill human dignity will always guide us against tyranny, against death for death and against the humiliation of peoples and the indignity perpetrated against men, women and children.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u96	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u97	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is time for the Portuguese Parliament to recognize that death does not have political ideology and that the force of political pluralism that we cherish is exactly the same as that which unites us against tyranny, totalitarianism and the humiliation and violation of human rights. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u98	Mr Eurico Brillante Dias, by the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party presents its vote of honour to the victims of the Great Hunger in Ukraine. Europe will celebrate 60 years of the Treaty of Rome even this month of March. The Treaty of Rome brought us a long period of peace, but we must not forget the first half of the 20th century, where two wars and the great destruction of a substantial part of life, in the eastern part of Europe, brought a disaster of lack of democracy, totalitarian regimes, and a disaster that we must respect and honour so that in Europe does not happen again what happened in the first half of the 20th century. Today, Europe has new challenges and only the memory of those who have died at the hands of regimes that did not respect freedom and democracy can create substantial, robust pillars so that Europe can never again live half a century equal to the first half of the 20th century. The Socialist Party could not fail at this time when we must pay tribute to those who have died in the hands of those who did not respect freedom and democracy. But we also do not like to associate with those who compare some phenomena with Nazism. If we always put everything in the same « caldeirá», we will not « separate the wheat from the juicy» and will not respect history but to a large extent lack the memory of those who have fought either against totalitarian regimes in the case of the Soviet Union or, in other circumstances, against Nazism. We must not compare the two circumstances. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will therefore, of course, vote in favour of its vote and abstain from the vote presented by the PSD. However, I must say that I, as President of the Parliamentary Group on Friendship with Ukraine, will be with the PSD Parliamentary Group and will vote in favour of it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u100	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Having been seized with the approval by this House of a vote condemning the illegalization of the Communist Party of Ukraine by the authorities of Kiev, the Ambassador of Ukraine decided to use the pages of the Portuguese press, arrogantly and soberly, to violently attack the Assembly of the Republic for defending democratic freedoms.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u102	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u103	It was good for the Ambassador to understand that the country in which she is believed is a sovereign and democratic country...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u104	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u105	... and that, unlike the self-proclaimed authorities of Kiev, the Assembly of the Republic is a democratically legitimated sovereign body by the will of the Portuguese people. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u106	However, the PSD, in an act of subservience,... [[PSD protests.]] ... to bow to the arrogance of the Ambassador and humbly apologize for the alleged face, presenting a vote in which the exhumation of the body of a campaign launched several years ago by the Ukrainian extreme right, is based on a gross violation of historical truth. It is true that in the early 1930s, the people of Ukraine suffered a famine of enormous proportions and serious consequences. It would be dishonest not to recognize it and, for dishonesty, it is enough to vote on the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u107	Exactly! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u108	The shortage of food goods that led to this hunger strike had various causes, not only because of the devastating effects of the world economic crisis of 1929 or extremely adverse climatic conditions, but also because of the conflicts generated around the changes in the structure and organization of land ownership. The hunger situation that occurred in the early 1930s in several regions of the USSR, but not only in the USSR, had very serious consequences for the people affected, and this was never denied. But it sends the historical truth that it is said that this hunger wave did not only victimize the people of Ukraine, it also victimized the south of Belarus, the Volga region, Kuban and Dom, other regions of Russia and even outside the USSR, Western Ukraine, then integrated into Poland. Affirming, as the PSD vote aims, that the famine of 1932 / 1933 was an act of genocide...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u109	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u110	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, saying, as the PSD vote hopes, that the famine of 1932 / 1933 was an act of genocide perpetrated by the power of Moscow against the people of Ukraine is such a falsity... [[PSD protests.]] ... that comes to converge with the violent campaign of provocation against Russia, launched from the power installed in Kiev, which aims to rehabilitate and transform into heroes...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u111	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u112	... the Ukrainian extreme right groups who, in World War II, collaborated with the Nazi occupant and resumed the terms of anti-Soviet propaganda launched in Nazi Germany in the 1930s.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u113	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies. It has already exceeded the time it had by 25 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u114	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that after last week's proposal for a proper vote on peace in Ukraine, this vote proposed by the PSD is going to deny this vote and is exactly in the opposite direction. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u115	Mr Telmo Correia also spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to acknowledge that this vote, despite its importance, referring to a genocide that took place in the 1930s, is not exactly a matter of actuality, such as that of other votes that we have voted here. This, despite the effort made by Mr António Filipe — today, a little out of his usual eloquence and nature, reading strictly a text that he was bringing, would not be misleading at all — when trying... [[PCP protests.]] Mr. President, or discount the time I have or can't...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u117	He can't!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u118	I'm gonna take off, but I'm gonna take off a little bit. You would like to continue, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u119	As I was saying, the matter is not at present, despite the effort made by Mr António Filipe by trying to bring it to some present performance of Ukraine. from our point of view, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, history is history, it cannot be erased and history is undeniable and unconquerable. I even disagree to some extent with Mr Eurico Brillante Dias — and the debate here is indisputably among Democrats — when he says: 'Well, we cannot compare because, contrary to what has been said, and well, by Mr Sérgio Azevedo, Nazism and Communism are very different things'. They are different things, Mr President: Nazism was a very intense barbarism that ended at the end of a few years with a war and the communism of the Soviet model and then Chinese was a barbarism just as it had over many years killed even more people than Nazism ever killed. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PCP protests.]] Moreover, Mr President : in this case, what we have to say is that genocide was not exclusive, because, long before the Ukrainians, the Soviet peasants died, including the command not yet from Stalin but Lenin, when they were transferred and also bound to misery, misfortune and death.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u120	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u121	Therefore, as the Council of Europe itself has already acknowledged, what can be sinned here is that this is just a genocide and a lamentable episode of many millions of deaths that can be attributed to this regime,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u122	Inventing you can say whatever you want!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u123	... that still exists in some places of the world and that can still be condemned in some places of the world, but that, fortunately and to a large extent, no longer has the dimension that it had. This vote affects a historical matter...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u124	We are already in the discount period, Mr Telmo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u125	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. I just wanted to say that this vote has an impact on a historical matter, because this genocide is part of history, as others that are mentioned. We recognize history, as other Parliaments have done, is, in our view, relevant.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u126	He's feeding the Nazi campaigns!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u127	History cannot be ignored, cannot be erased...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u128	They're feeding the Nazi campaigns!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u129	... and, obviously, these crimes of Soviet communism, which you are afraid of not recognizing or seeing,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u130	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u131	... extraordinarily in today's days, they cannot be forgotten or ignored. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u132	They're feeding the Nazi campaigns!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u133	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares also spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Whoever is watching at this time of Parliament will ask why this debate is confusing with the debates on the history channel, and that question is what gives this debate today. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Calm down, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! It was only 85 years ago—it's true! — but we can discuss why it is now being discussed by PSD and CDS. It happens that, to explain to those who follow us... [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u135	For us? Oh, my God! It was your partners who voted! It's a fight!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u136	He's not doing the housework!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u137	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u138	Mr President, you will also benefit from some discounts. He wants to go on.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u139	Mr Telmo Correia's nervousness does not allow him to have the same calm he asked for himself during his intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u140	You would like to continue, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u141	To clarify who is behind us, this PSD vote is in line with the fifteen-year votes it has put forward on the situation in Ukraine and only wants to try to whiten out the situation of lack of democracy, disrespect for the will of the Ukrainian people today, and try to take part in one of the parts that oppress the Ukrainian people today. In the past we have distanced ourselves from this, we have already said that the Ukrainian people should be given the possibility of freely expressing themselves about their destiny, free from any intrusion, I repeat, of any intrusion outside their country and their people. This is something the PSD does not want, because it is clearly on one side that oppresses the Ukrainian people. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u142	We do not follow this up and therefore we will not vote in favour of the PSD vote. And we will not vote for it either because it is clearly done arrogantly and purposefully to try to circumvent history. Let us see what happened in this Parliament with regard to the 2006 petition, which is referred to in the PSD vote. This petition, which had as rapporteur a member of the Left Block, Mr Luís Fazenda, was distributed to all parliamentary groups saying that the Government's answer on the subject was that Portugal had not taken any position because it was not necessary from an international point of view. This government has completed its duties, the PSD/CDS government has come and I wonder if, when they were in government, they took a position on the matter. The answer is 'no'!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u143	It has already exceeded the time you had, Mr Commissioner, even with discounts.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u144	I will finish, Mr. President. Only now, with this desire to discuss the situation in Ukraine here for five years, do they intend to put Parliament in a position.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u145	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u146	Mr President, in conclusion, I just wanted to say that we will follow the PS vote, because it is made in a much more moderate tone than the PSD vote. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u147	Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on vote No 233 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Condemnation by « Holodomor » — Great hunger in 1932 and 1933, which occurred in Ukraine ( PSD, CDS-PP and 1 PS Member ). [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted, with votes in favour of PSD, CDS-PP, PAN and PS member Eurico Brillante Dias, votes against BE, PCP, Os Verdes and PS members Isabel Alves Moreira, Isabel Santos and Paulo Pisco and the PS abstention.]] [[In 1932 and 1933, there was a Great Hunger in Ukraine, caused by the totalitarian regime of Stalin, which has caused the death of about 7 million Ukrainian citizens. As highlighted in the Resolution of the European Parliament of 23 October 2008, the 'Holodomor' of 1932-1933 was planned cynically and cruelly by the Soviet communist regime, with the aim of imposing the policy of the Soviet Union of collecting agriculture. In March 2006 a petition was lodged at the Assembly of the Republic requesting the official recognition of this tragedy and following various action taken by various international bodies on the ‘Holodomor’ in Ukraine, in particular the Joint Declaration adopted at the 58th Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations in September 2003; the Resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe of 25 January 2006 condemning crimes committed on behalf of the Communist ideology and the Motion submitted on 25 January 2008 at the same Parliamentary Assembly on ‘the need for an international condemnation of the Ukrainian ‘Holodomor’ of 1932-1933’; the Resolution of the General Conference of UNESCO of 1 November 2007 on Honour to the Victims of Great Hunger in Ukraine; and the Joint Declaration of the 30 Member States of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCEmor 2007) of 76 November 2007 on ‘Unior’, in October 2007. It should also be noted that the parliaments of Argentina, Austria, Chile, Colombia, Slovakia, Ecuador, Spain, Estonia, Georgia, Hungary, Italy, Lithuania, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Poland, the Czech Republic, the United States of America and the Senates of Australia and Canada have already recognized the Ukrainian “Holodomor” as one of the genocides of the 20th century. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, decides: 1 — Expressing solidarity with the Ukrainian people and recognizing the genocide that has victimized some 7 million Ukrainians in the years 1932 and 1933 in Ukraine; and 2 — Condemning all forms of totalitarianism and all kinds of violations and crimes against humanity, such as those that occurred in the 1930s in Ukraine.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u148	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u149	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u150	Mr President, it is only to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the vote we have just taken.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u151	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Let us now vote on vote No 235 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Honoring the victims of Great Hunger in Ukraine ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN, the votes against the CFP and the Greens and the abstention from the PSD.]] [[It is as follows: Respect for the irreducible dignity of the human person and his fundamental rights is an essential principle of human civilization, and this principle is enshrined by the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, as well as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms to which Portugal acceded. Between 1932 and 1933 the people of Ukraine suffered the consequences of the Great Hunger ("Holodomor"), a consequence of agrarian policies on peasants, whose tragic and horrendous outcome resulted in the loss of millions of human lives due to hunger. The preservation of a critical and lively memory contributes to the construction of a healthy historical consciousness, allowing "to remember what has happened and to know how to forget, without the forgetfulness becoming amnesia". Thus, the memory frees the human communities from the shirt-of-forces of a tragic and ignored past, enabling the construction of the present and the future, through reconciliation, forgiveness and a culture of peace among peoples, in which the objective analysis of history has space to fruitfully and carry out its scientific work. Consequently, the celebration of victims' memory contributes recognizedly to restoring their dignity, while at the same time serving the purpose of identifying and preventing similar tragedies in the future and contributing to the strengthening of respect for and defence of the rule of law and human rights. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic meeting in plenary session pays tribute to the victims of the Great Hunger ("Holodomor") which took place in Ukraine between 1932 and 1933, extending this tribute to survivors and their families, with a view to ensuring the preservation of the living memory of the acts committed and recalling the memory of those who lost their lives.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u152	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u153	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u154	Mr President, it is to inform me that I will present a statement of vote on the last two votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u155	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We turn to vote No 234 / XIII ( 2. a ) — Greetings for the recognition of the Carnival of the Carnets of Power as National Immaterial Cultural Heritage and a demonstration of support for the candidature intended for its classification as Immaterial Cultural Heritage of Humanity ( PS, PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PAN and PCP ), which will be read by Secretary Idália Serrão. You have the floor, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The Carnival of the Carnets of Power is a truly unique archaic social practice for other Carnival festivities of the country. It takes on its own and distinctive particularities, through its characteristic elements — mask, fact of colored fringes and shocks — and the behavior of the ‘carets’ that shock women, on their exits between Sunday Gordo and Third Carnival Fair. Almost extinct in the middle of the 20th century, with the change in the socioeconomic and demographic conditions of the transmontane interior, the Carnival of Podence was the object of reviving with the constitution of a local association in 1985. Assiduous participation of care groups in events throughout the country and abroad has since promoted its increasing media visibility and tourist attractiveness. Today the party is played by local inhabitants and their descendants migrated and marked by the participation of masks of all ages, status, gender and civil status and, in this sense, promotes an intergenerational dialogue, and a strengthening of social ties. Visited by neighbors of the region, curious and national and international tourists, Carnival has inspired numerous artistic works, from music, painting and literature, being also recognized as a symbol of Portuguese traditional culture. following its registration in the National Inventory of Immaterial Cultural Heritage in 2017, the Municipal Chamber of Macedo de Cavalieros stated that it will present a candidature to the Representative List of Immaterial Cultural Heritage of Humanity ( UNESCO ), having already received support from various entities, public and private, local and national. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, welcomes the recognition by the Portuguese State of the Carnival of the Carnets of Power as an Immaterial Cultural Heritage and expresses its support for the initiative of the Municipal Chamber of Macedo de Cavaliers of presentation with UNESCO of its candidacy for the Immaterial Cultural Heritage of Humanity. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u157	We shall proceed to the vote on the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote on draft resolution No 688 / XIII ( 2 ) was followed. ( a ) — Extension of the period of operation of the Possible Commission for the Strengthening of Transparency in the Exercise of Public Functions ( RA President ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now have to vote on several requests, submitted by the authors of the diplomas, to the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without voting, for a period of 90 days, of the projects of lein.o 346 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Integrates the representation of the National Council for Youth in the Economic and Social Council by amending Law No 108 / 91 of 17 August ( PSD ), 414 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Alter to Law No 108 / 91 of 17 August governing the Economic and Social Council ( PSD ), 415 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Includes representatives of pensioners and pensioners in the Economic and Social Council, amending Law No 108 / 91 of 17 August ( PSD ), 138 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Includes representatives of pensioners and pensioners in the Economic and Social Council ( amendment to Law No 108 / 91 of 17 August ) ( BE), 417 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Sixth amendment to Law No 108 / 91 of 17 August, Law of the Economic and Social Council, in order to include in plenary two representatives of the National Council for Youth ( CDS-PP ) and 425 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The seventh amendment is made to Law No 108 / 91 of 17 August governing the Economic and Social Council ( PS ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] The vote on draft resolutions Nos 657 / XIII ( 2 ) was followed. ( a ) — by the urgent requalification of the Basic School of the 2. o is 3. the High Cycles of Lumiar ( PS ), 508 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake urgent intervention at the Basic School 2, 3 of the Upper Lumiar, in Lisbon ( CDS-PP ), 550 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government initiate the necessary mechanisms for the construction of the new EB 2 / 3 high school in Lumiar ( PCP ), with the text being replaced at the request of the author, 613 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government an urgent solution to the Basic School 2, 3 of the Upper Lumiar, in Lisbon ( The Greens ) and 684 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Urgent requalification of the Basic School 2, 3 of the Upper Lumiar, in Lisbon ( BE ). Since all these draft resolutions have the same object, I believe we can vote for them together. [[Pause.]] Since there's no opposition, we're going to vote. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u158	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u159	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u160	Mr President, I have asked for the floor to announce that the Democratic Social Party's bench will present a declaration of vote on the last four draft resolutions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u161	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 326 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Measures for social support to mothers and parents students, assigning to parents the same set of rights granted to pregnant women and mothers ( first amendment to Law No 90 / 2001 of 20 August 2001 ) ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] The bill goes down to 8.The Commission. The general vote of Bill No 423 / XIII ( 2 ) follows. ( a ) — Measures for social support to mothers and parents students ( first amendment to Law No 90 / 2001 of 20 August ) ( CFP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The bill also lowers the Commission to 8. We shall generally vote on draft law No 424 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter to Law No 90 / 2001 of 20 August 2001 laying down social support measures for mothers and parents students ( NAP ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP, against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] We now turn to the vote on draft resolution No 586 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The ratification by the Portuguese State of the United Nations International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families ( adopted by Resolution No 45 / 158 of the General Assembly of 18 December 1990 ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the PAN, votes against the PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u162	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u163	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u164	Mr President, it is in order to inform the Bureau that I shall deliver a statement of vote on the vote on draft resolution No 586 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u165	I would also like to take the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u166	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u167	Mr President, it is also to inform the Bureau that I will deliver a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u168	It's registered, then. We turn to the general vote on Bill No 57 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Sets minimum requirements for the protection of workers against the risks to safety and health to which they are or may be subject due to exposure to electromagnetic fields during work and transposes Directive 2013 / 35 / EU, the European Parliament and the Council of 26 June 2013. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] The bill goes down to 10. the Commission. The general vote on Bill No 58/ XIII ( 2 ) follows. ( a ) — establishes the principles and rules of cross-border exchange of information relating to the practice of road offences in a Member State and transposes Directive 2015 / 413 / EU. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]] The bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We turn to the general vote on Bill No 59 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — adapts to the domestic legal system the obligations arising from Decision 2008 / 615 / JHA and Decision 2008 / 616 / JHA, which executes it as the data transmission of the vehicle registration for the purposes of detection and investigation of criminal offences. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and abstention from the NAP.]] The bill also goes down to 1. the Commission. The overall vote on motion for a resolution No 44 / XIII ( 2 ) follows. ( a ) — Approves the Headquarters Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Ibero-American Organization of States for Education, Science and Culture, signed in Lisbon on 4 October 2016. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] In a general vote too, we shall vote on motion for a resolution No 45 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the amendments to the Agreement on the establishment of the Common Fund for Commodities adopted by the Governing Council on 10 December 2014. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and the Greens and the abstention from the NAP.]] The general vote of Bill No 179/ XIII ( 1 ) is hereby followed. ( a ) — Alter the Framework Law of Regulatory Entities, approved by Law No 67 / 2013 of 28 August, and amends the Statute of the Public Manager, approved by Decree-Law No 71 / 2007 of 27 March ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and PS, in favour of BE, the CFP and the NAP and with abstentions from the CDS-PP and the Greens.]] We now generally vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works on draft law No 279 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Alter the Framework Law of independent administrative entities with functions of regulating the economic activity of private, public and cooperative sectors approved by Law No 67 / 2013 of 28 August ( The Greens ), and the author withdrew his initiative in favour of that text. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The CDS-PP was requested to counsel the plenary of the discussion and to vote in the speciality of Article 25 ( 3 ). that of the replacement text. Each parliamentary group has 2 minutes to intervene. I therefore give the floor to Mr Pedro Mota Soares of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u169	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are now discussing the law of regulators and regulators in plenary. We have tried to achieve two objectives with this amendment. The first was to ensure that the House had more scrutiny in the process of appointing its own regulators, and that objective was achieved. But there was another purpose—a purpose on which we often heard about the benches of the extreme left and left: that of limiting the regulators' salaries. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] We often heard the Portuguese Communist Party, the Left Block and the Greens say that what regulators won in Portugal was too much and that it was necessary to introduce limits. The CDS, in that regard, argued that the limit to the payment of regulators should be the salary of the Prime Minister. There are doubts about the application of the law, we understand that it was necessary to change it, which we proposed, so that this limit would be clearly established, and only that, for the regulators to be defeated. It is amazing that political parties that said this value was very high, political parties like the Left Block that suggested that regulators should not win more than 5000 €, political party like the Portuguese Communist Party that said they should not win more than 8000 €, will now vote for a proposal that sets regulators to earn 12 000 € per month, 155 000 € per year.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u170	Exactly! PCP protest.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u171	Mr President, I don't know if the Socialist Party has already put socialism in the drawer, but there you put the Portuguese Communist Party, the Left Block and the Greens in your pocket. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u172	That's pathetic!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u173	Mr Carlos Silva of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u174	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In a modern and market economy, the existence of regulators capable of defending the values of free and healthy competition is absolutely critical. The current law in force in 2013 contained objective criteria for the clear definition of the salaries of regulatory entities, such as the size, complexity, requirement and responsibility inherent in the functions, the economic environment, the need for remuneration restraint adjusted to the circumstances of the country, the maturity of the Prime Minister... These were all these criteria, applied in the form of recommendation, which aimed at adapting each entity to the specificity of the sector, as well as to the economic reality of the country. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the left and left most radical, don't you think that these stratospheric salaries of €12 000 per month that set up for regulatory entities are a real insult to Portuguese? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u175	And how much did Sergio Monteiro win? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u176	After the difficulties we have gone through and we continue to go through, do you not think these salaries are inadequate, unjust, excessive and obscene? Oh, my God! Mrs. Members and Members of Parliament, in the analysis of congeneral countries, we have not been able to find countries that are more stocked than we within the European Union where regulatory entities have a 15-fold maturity above the average Portuguese maturity. We can't find it! [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen on the left and left most radical, we are not faced with a legal situation, we are not faced with a situation of need to clarify legislation, we are faced with situations of need of ethics and morals. This is the left sitting at the budget table! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u177	Mr Luís Testa of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I expected a lot of things, which I did not expect was this intervention by the PSD. The PSD, which for years defended completely deregulated regulators, without wage limits, the salary of all interests, now attacks those who want to moralize the system,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... those who want to put limits on salaries that, in your time, have never had any kind of limit!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u179	It's a fact!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u180	But we saw during this process that there were parties interested in consensualizing at least two objectives: on the one hand, to reduce, in a drastic and widespread way, the maturity of the regulators' administrations and, on the other hand, to increase the level of scrutiny of the Assembly of the Republic. in my opinion and in the opinion of the Socialist Party, these two wishes were fully achieved with the text of substitution to the protocol of the Green Party. It is in this sense that we are voting today on the replacement text to transform what was wrong, indeed, what was bad about the time of the PSD/CDS government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u181	Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u182	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, I will ignore the low-level provocations of the CDS and concentrate on the facts of this process. The CFP has, from the outset, denounced this scandalous situation which has occurred in relation to the salaries of the administrators of the regulatory entities. Since the beginning of this legislative process, the CFP has shown openness and availability to enable all solutions to limit the values of these dues. It would not, nor was it, on the part of the CFP, put any obstacle to these solutions and all the proposals would have our vote in favour. All of them!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u183	All of them! Did you hear that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u184	What deserved the vote against the PCP, yes, was the bill of the previous PSD / CDS government, which was approved and defended with nails and teeth by the PSD and the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u185	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u186	It is this proposal from the former Government of the PSD / CDS Government which has been approved, which has been in force so far and which has resulted in the unbelievable situation which is now finding that the text of substitution, now approved, is intended to amend. It was with the proposal put forward by the previous Government and defended by the PSD and the CDS that we witnessed the increases of 150 % in the salaries of the administration of ANAC ( National Civil Aviation Authority ), having its president last from a maturity of €6000 to €16 000 per month! This happened with the CDS vote! [[PCP, PS, BE and The Greens applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u187	That's not what they're talking about anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u188	It was thanks to the proposal from the CDS and PSD that this happened, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! Was this an increase decided by the Committee on Wages constituted following the appointment of whom? De Maria Luís Albuquerque e de António Pires de Lima! [[PCP, P.S. and Greens applauded.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, you will once again have to « bite the tongue», but you could at least have a stinking modem for what they imposed on the country and are now trying to forget. But we won't let them forget! [[PCP, PS, Os Verdes and BE Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u189	Did you understand what they did? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u190	Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Parliamentary Group of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Greens proposal, which set as a limit to the salaries of the administrators the highest wage of the worker of the respective entity, did not achieve the necessary consensus. Still, the solution we have achieved is to respond to one of the objectives that have guided The Greens in this proposal: to moralize the salaries of the administrators of the regulatory entities. The solution found will not only allow a general reduction in the salaries of regulators, as well as once and for all, prevents the repetition of what happened with the million increases in ANAC during the PSD/CDS government, which is already not to mention illegal appointments during that same government. In addition, and on a proposal from the Greens, the use of credit cards and other payment instruments from administrators now constitute remuneration for tax purposes. Nor was the taxpayer's party here able to vote in favour! But in this discussion, it is also important to remember another objective that Mr Pedro Mota Soares has forgotten and has to do with guaranteeing workers' rights. I know that they are often forgotten, but this diploma, which now we are approving, guarantees the workers their hearing and their participation in the drafting of internal regulations and recognizes the right of workers to choose to maintain the bond of employment in public functions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u192	And what does that matter to the CDS? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u193	We therefore have reason to welcome the approval of this diploma not only because it restores some morality in the salaries of the administrators of the regulatory entities, but also strengthens the role of the Assembly of the Republic in the appointment process and, above all, because it is careful and guarantees the rights of the workers of the regulatory entities. I did not want to repeat myself, but I cannot fail to comment on what Mr Carlos Silva said, who now says that wages are very high, but he has allowed the president of ANAC to self-increased by 150 % and at the time they said nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u194	Only 150 percent! Is that what you're
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u195	With retroactives!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u196	And with retroactive effects!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u197	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u198	It was the full regabofe the PSD/CDS government!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u199	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u200	They even appointed administrators without passing through the Assembly of the Republic. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes, the PCP and PS and BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u201	It's the vendettalons of the temple!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u202	Mr Heitor Sousa, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Member: The extreme right of the CDS came here to do an exercise of clear political demagogy trying to erase the story and to avoid talking about the attitude that the CDS had with respect to the bill of the Left Block in discussion in the parliamentary committee. at that time, the CDS voted against the bill of the Left Block and now has just abstained. Therefore, this exercise of demagogy is not even consistent with the systematic attitude of the CDS during the discussion on 6. the Commission. In any case, Mr Pedro Mota Soares, my speech is also an exercise of appeal to your memory, since — I do not know if you know — we are amending Law No 67 / 2013 of 28 August. Now, honourable Member, where were you in 2013? Were you here at the plenary? No, I wasn't!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u204	He was in the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u205	Exactly! They're here telling me that you were in the government! So you are the author of the Framework Law of Independent Regulatory Entities, which we have changed with the vote we just made. Mr Deputy, under this Law the millionaire salaries of independent regulators were admitted, tacitly and explicitly, by the alliance between the PSD and the CDS! [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] Therefore, Mr President, this exercise of pure demagogy does not reap and does not resist an analysis which recovers at least a little bit of parliamentary history. Our proposal, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it was to introduce a response to the political oversale that went through Portuguese society when, even during the PSD/CDS government, we were all amazed at the news of 150 % increases in the salaries of ANAC managers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u206	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u207	I will now finish, Mr President. That is why, with the amendments introduced, a step has been taken towards more relative justice in the state's remuneration framework and a little more equity.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u208	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u209	From now on, the salaries of managers of independent regulators will have a maximum limit, and it is about that limit that we will continue to beat for it to be reduced. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u210	Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor since he still has time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u211	Mr President, it was good for the CDS to have advocated this discussion for plenary. [[Protests from BE, PCP and the Greens.]] because of the discomfort of the benches on the left we realize that we did well to have avoked this discussion. The big difference is this: in cases of excess law, in cases of increases of 150 % in regulators, we put forward a proposal to limit regulator wages. What did the PCP, the Left Block and the Greens do? [[Protests from BE, PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u212	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to create conditions for your intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u213	Thank you very much, Mr President. These parties accept that wages can go from 6000 € to 12 000 €! [[Protests from BE, PCP and the Greens.]] That wasn't the previous government! That was the Communist Party, the Left Block and the Green Party! It was the ladies. Mr. Jerónimo de Sousa, Bruno Dias... all who are sitting there! [[Protests from BE, PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u214	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u215	Mr President, allow me to finish in a very short way. Mr. Heitor Sousa accused my bench of being extremely right. Extremely right, Mr. Heitor Sousa, are those parties that are against membership of the European Union, are against the euro, are against NATO,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u216	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u217	...are against free trade... [[Protests from BE, PCP and the Greens.]] Look there, it's those parties that don't even let others speak in plenary of the Assembly of the Republic!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u218	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u219	Far left is you, it's not this bench! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u220	Since he also has time, Mr Luís Testa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u221	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we have come to the conclusion that the CDS and Mr Pedro Mota Soares are much better in opposition than in the government! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u222	And we hope we don't see him in the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u223	Let me explain to you that the big difference is that when VV. Ex.as were in the government there was no limit to wages, in fact, there was not only no limit as there was the possibility that the holders of the charges would self-increased,... [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u224	... in our time, when the left ones support the government, what happens is that there is a moralization of the system not only by setting limits and ceilings, but also to promote scrutiny by the Assembly of the Republic. This is the very simple, direct and concise difference. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u225	Mrs. Members, we shall proceed to the vote on Article 25 ( 3 ). the text of the replacement, submitted by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works, concerning draft law No 279 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Amend the Framework Law of independent administrative entities with functions for regulating the economic activity of private, public and cooperative sectors approved by Law No 67 / 2013 of 28 August ( The Greens ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote in special favour for the plenary of the remaining indicative votes held within the Commission. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Let us now proceed to the overall final vote on the same replacement text by the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The general vote on Bill No 299 / XIII ( 2 ) follows. ( a ) — Alter to Law No 67 / 2013 of 28 August ( Framework Law of Regulatory Entities ) ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the PS and the Greens, votes in favour of the CDS-PP and the PCP and abstentions of BE and the PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u226	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u227	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u228	Mr President, it is to inform that on the votes relating to the Framework Law on Regulatory Entities, I and the Members Álvaro Batista, Manuela Tender, Margarida Mano and Manuel Frexes we will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u229	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u230	Mr President, I would also like to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u231	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u232	Mr President, it is to announce that we will also make a statement of vote on the previous votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u233	Be registered. Mr Bruno Dias also asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u234	Mr President, it is for the same purpose, i.e. to announce that the CFP will present a statement of vote on the diplomas that have just been voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u235	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We shall generally vote on the replacement text submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea on the drafts of lein.o 111 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Inclusion of a vegetarian option in all public canteens ( PAN), 265 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Determines the inclusion of the vegetarian option in meals in public canteens ( BE) and 268 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Vegetarian plant in the public canteens ( The Greens ), and the authors withdrew their initiatives in favour of the replacement text. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u236	I call for an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u237	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u238	Mr President, I believe that we are at the end of the vote and I would like to ask for the correction of the CDS-PP vote in the vote on draft resolution No 586 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) submitted by the CFP. The vote by the CDS-PP bench shall be abstention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-03.u239	It does not alter the final outcome of the vote, but it is recorded, Mr President. With regard to the replacement text that we have just voted on in general, we shall then vote on the assumption by the plenary of the indexary votes held within the Commission. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Finally, we shall proceed to the overall final vote of the same replacement text. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We have reached the end of the vote. The next plenary session will be held on 8 March, Wednesday, at 10 a.m. on the agenda, the first item shall include the 15th year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure ; in the second point a debate will take place, with the participation of the Prime Minister, preparatory to the next European Council, under Article 4(1) ( a ). that of the Law of Monitoring, Appreciation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Construction Process ; in the third point the Report on the Progress of Equality between Women and Men at Work, Employment and Vocational Training will be considered. In view of the fact that the International Women's Day is celebrated on that day, this last item on the agenda makes a lot of sense. I wish everyone a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 7 minutes.]]
