ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. We are going to start our agenda today, which is, first of all, an urgent debate called for by the Left Block on public transport. To open the debate, Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for the Environment and other Members. Members of the Government : The urgent debate that the Left Block brings to Parliament today is about public transport, but the real urgency is for the people, who meet the worst level of service that is provided. In fact, the whole country is like a big house where everyone is protesting and everyone is right. In Lisbon, in Porto, in Aveiro, in Coimbra, in Cascais, in Almada, in Setúbal, in Faro, in Leiria, in Covilhã, in Mirandela, thousands of people claim fair title. They claim because they are hung pending the bus that does not arrive or by the restructuring career without notice. They claim because the train has been removed. They claim because the subway is having technical difficulties, because it is late or because the rolling ladders are stopped in maintenance. They claim because the boat suffered a cut in the hours, not because of lack of sailors to drive them, but because, himself, it was stopped at the cemetery as a spare part in the repair of another also damaged. The effect of all these failures is known: frequencies fall, vehicles are overcrowded, especially in the early morning and afternoon hours, which is when people need them. And as a disgrace never comes alone, the government takes the inopportunity decision of an increase of 1, 5 % in prices, precisely at a time when the biggest problem will not even be that increase, but rather the lack of transport itself. So the first question that can be put is very simple: is there any justice in a decision that closes its eyes to the mountain of righteous, outraged, recurring and repeated complaints of people, bearing in mind that nothing is happening in the provision of this essential public service? In view of the reality that is around us, Minister and other members of the Government, would it not, on the contrary, make sense to reduce transport prices, while at least the start of supply and the discounts that respect the existence of real social prices are restored at levels that existed four years ago? We well know that to a large extent the failures, failures, cuts, failures, the lack of vehicles, drivers and drivers originate in a systematic policy of destroying the operation of these public companies that the PSD/CDS Government has carried out for four and a half years to justify the inevitability of its delivery to private companies. Even so, the example of MoveAveiro, given to private on day 1 of this month by the PSD/CDS autorquic coalition, shows that the right has learned nothing from the past and the result is chaos in the transports in Aveiro, with the enormous reduction of careers, overcrowded buses and a huge increase in prices.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u3	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u4	That is why all the companies that incorporated the book of privatisation charges of Sérgio Monteiro and Pires de Lima followed a path of systematic degradation and extreme austerity, expressed in the breakdown of the treasury and its underfunding, which was substantially aggravated by the huge hole created by speculative financial operations, such as swaps, whose clearance of responsibility only gave in the singular sacrifice of a 'counsel' — pass the expression — but from which it turned out that some of those responsible still had been awarded with invitations to be part of the governance of the right. Diving in the middle of a miserable austerity, companies were forced to serve worse, more expensive and with much less means. These are examples of this policy of systematic delapidation and forced contraction of material and human resources, the sale of 150 buses in the Carris and the reduction of more than 200 drivers, as well as the current immobilization of 23 trains in the Lisbon Metropolitan due to lack of parts, including the lack of wheels for the bogies of the carriages. By the way, it is said that, even if these carriages were in a position to walk, there would be no one to put them into operation because 50 drivers and more than 100 workers are missing to restore the necessary work at the stations and in maintenance. in Caris, the degradation of maintenance schemes is measured by the duplication of vehicles immobilized by failures, including several vehicles equipped with access ramps for disabled people. These situations are intolerable, because it is a constitutional right, the right to transport, which is at issue. It is urgent to correct the lack of vehicles and workers in the Carris, the Lisbon Metropolitan, the STCP, the CP and the Port Metro. immediately, in the first four companies, we counted 490 missing workers. The non-contracting of workers has a dramatic effect on companies: there are those who take two shifts of operation on the Metro of Porto or Lisbon or who are on the wheel of a bus 10 to 12 hours in a row. The increase in falls due to occupational diseases exacerbates the lack of human resources. in Carris, only in the first six months of 2016, there were 55 drivers who entered medical school. The former government also left precariousness at work as an inheritance. It is another of the failures that it is urgent to respond, putting an end to the subcontracting of drivers, as happens with CarrisTur, who hires drivers and then sells them to Caris. There is only one solution: to end this spurious business, putting an end to all forms of work precariousness in the business public sector and therefore in the state. We hope that the Government will honour the commitments it has signed and that it has recently publicly reaffirmed. The same applies to collective bargaining. Finally, we know that all this depends on the release of investment, which has been blocked for more than 10 years. The investment that is needed is of two kinds: the urgent investment with effects in the shortest possible term and the investment of roots, structural, which must meet the objective of re-qualification, modernisation and sustainability of long-term supply, as a condition for improving the quality of life of cities and respect for the right to mobility for all. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u5	For an intervention, even at the opening stage, Mr Environment Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is difficult to accept the degree of fragility, even pre-break, in which we found the six collective transport companies directly exploited by the State at the beginning of 2016. The likelihood of lead of sub-concession contracts by the Court of Auditors was very high and the absence of an alternative by the previous Government revealed a political arrogance difficult to understand, even more so when companies had lost 1000 workers and, as a whole, about 25 % of passengers in the previous four years. We thus set off from a very weak base, and only the commitment of managers and workers made it possible to reach the end of 2016 with many highlights, it is true, but without cracks in supply and even with a growth in demand of 1, 7 %, which corresponds to about 7, 2 million euros more transported. Let's separate the Port of Lisbon. in Metro do Porto, the operation runs smoothly, it was decided only to give up the sub-concession procedure that was under way by it to prove itself free from illegalities that could compromise the defense of the public interest. As of next April, when the legal deadlines are met by scrupulously, the tender for the operation will be launched for a period of seven years. Today it was awarded the construction of a new station in Modivas. at STCP ( Corporation of Collective Transport of the Port ) we were even able to increase the supply, still having problems, we recognize it, on weekends. The number of passengers has already increased in 2016, stagnating the erosion of previous years, and we have even been very consistent with the increase in supply as it rose by 5 % over that year. This is also the reason for the improvement of the mobility of financial indicators in all companies, with the exception of the STCP. Global numbers: EBITDA(earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and depreciation) is positive in five of these six companies and revenues during 2016 grew by 3, 3 %. As a matter of curiosity, it is said that of the 150 000 people who walked to the Allied Avenue during the passage of year more than 120 000 were transported in collective transport, which proves the capacity already installed in the Port Metropolitan Area today. I do not think it makes sense to repeat the explanation of the models of municipalization of STCP and Carris companies. They are already known by all in their similarities, in their differences, but clearly root in a common trunk. Firstly, it is not the government that manages the public and the territory and, as such, it is the authorities that can better power and adjust the supply of transport. Secondly, it is the authorities, where Carris and STCP provide services, as in the whole country, which should finance public service obligations—and now all these authorities, without exception, have assumed it. Thirdly, the Government remains committed to renewing fleets, especially from buses, now gas or electricity, by making Community funds available for this purpose. There are about 400 buses for these two companies and, in the case of STCP, paying even the whole of the new buses, since the State remains the owner of the company. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, it was at the Lisbon Metro that we found the most complex situation: the tickets dependent on a single supplier, the maintenance of the compositions without parts, the stations for abandonment and without projects. The ticket situation is resolved, and it has been resolved in time. in maintenance, of the 23 standing compositions, two entered into operation yesterday and two more will enter this month. Until the end of April, we will no longer have any final problems with this forum. Also on February 3rd will be published the notice for the contest of the work at the station of Arroios, solving with it the greatest strangulation on the network. Also on 10 February the formation of 30 new staff members from the more than 1000 who competed for the Lisbon Metro will begin. They are already beginning to feel the improvements in the operation that, when it comes to summer, will even be felt by everyone. A relevant point is the fact that the subway worked during the year's passage, which had never happened, with great commitment on the part of the company's workers. The Metro Budget for 2017 also gives us guarantees of being this year of turn Finally, in relation to Transtejo and Soflusa, now with a fully dedicated administration, in fact, as a result of a law passed in this Assembly of the Republic, until the end of February, as was guaranteed, we will have a complete plan for maintenance and operation, but we recognize that here, unlike the Metro, the budget is tighter. however, in 2016, 10 docks were carried out when, for example, in 2015 only three had been carried out - 15 is the ideal number. If in the last fortnight of the previous year 32 connections were deleted, i.e. more or less two per day, in the first fortnight of this year there were only 9 suppressions, i.e. about one every two days. This improvement, as they can continue to follow, is not conjuncural. In summary, we recognize our limitations, and many of them are difficult to overcome in the current context of the country. in the case of Porto, the main limitation is the age of the fleet of buses, which will be resolved with the renewal of the fleet. Maybe they don't know, but between 2011 and 2015 a single bus wasn't bought. In Lisbon, and for the metro, the plans are clear, they have budget and timetable, but, in addition to the work of Arroios, our main focus is service recovery. Only from the middle of this year can we think of increasing the supply again to reach the pre-2011 levels. Finally, I would like to say that the fundamental difference with regard to the past that we have before us is that we like our companies, we do not look at them as a burden that exacerbates the deficit and that, with the support of the workers, we will make even a year's turn in the success of the transport companies, keeping their public character unalienated. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u7	Starting with the first round of speeches, Mr Carlos Santos Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u8	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The chaos has been installed in public transport, service levels in public transport companies in Lisbon are deteriorating from day to day. But more important than this accusation being made by this Parliamentary Group is that it is repeatedly carried out daily by user committees. In fact, this is the big difference in the protests of the past: in the past, there were trade unions and workers' committees that required better quality of the services provided and, for this, strike almost every day in the transport sector; today, these same unions are silent and silent, alerts come from the user committees and this difference is very significant and it is important to highlight. It is the users who claim in the public square — still today I heard them in the social communication; the lack of drivers and rolling stock leads to the daily suppression of careers; the lack of drivers in the Carris leads to hundreds of services to be carried out; the lack of crews imposes cuts of river lanes on the Transtejo and Soflusa, including at peak hours; the lack of investment in the billetics leads to the absence of tickets on automatic machines; stations and interfaces to the abandonment, due to lack of workers, generate insecurity and degradation of spaces; eighteen metro trains and several Transtejo vessels, stopped, provide parts to the remaining, circulating platforms; on the metro, the number of carriages by good composition has decreased; the spacing between each composition is greater and has become current the warnings that waiting time can be greater than normal; the users are forced to wait for more time, to move on platforms, and then to travel on the road, the rolling stock, the equipment is displayed in the way of the restoration of the equipment and the restoration of the equipment. With this worrisome alert scenario, what do we have? Trade unions silenced and quieted. It's awful, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! Thus, they are satisfied and achieving their objectives, and these, in public companies dependent on the State Budget, are undoubtedly contradictory to the public interest of users and all contributors. Mr Minister, there is no room for great doubts: the service has been deteriorating and this has been accentuated in recent months. Amazingly, the biggest problems have arisen in recent months, in which there has been no reduction in the number of employees, which I know, and in which funding has even increased. As I know, it is public that operational costs in public transport increased EUR 200 million in the first six months of last year and in the metro increased 92 %. Mr Minister, what is going on in this area? Parliament demands answers, users demand answers. It is not enough for the Minister to say that it was random; it is not enough for the Left Block to mark urgent debates to pretend that it has nothing to do with this. You're trying to fool the Portuguese! Don't run away with your ass to the syringe! It is not enough for Mrs Catarina Martins to walk the subway with the workers' committee. Mrs Deputy, I would like to offer you one suggestion: do it with the user committees, that they give you more information. But let's also revisit the agreement you signed with the Socialist Party, which will find several answers there. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, there will not be a need for an in-depth investigation of the accounts of public transport companies to understand the origin of the problem, we will simply revisit the management agreement, which involved a faster return of wage cuts, so that, naturally, we will understand the origin of all the problems. The money that should be used in maintenance and in excellence of quality of service is being spent on payment that keeps the unions closed and companies free of strike. [[PSD applause.]] The gentlemen. Members will claim that the root of the problem was in the previous government, but there I leave you with accurate information: the operating balance of these companies in 2010 was EUR 65 million negative ; in 2013 it was EUR 22 million positive ; in 2015 these companies increased the number of passengers transported by 2 % and reduced the operational costs by 7 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u9	The carriages have stopped!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u10	Strangely, in those years, the CGTP has always fought against all the measures that were allowed to alleviate the bill that taxpayers had to pay and permanently invoked the interest of users and the public service provided by the company. Let me give you one thought, sirs. Members: what would have been done by these companies if there had been any restraint in the union movement? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with you in the government things have changed, of course, but it has not been in favour of users, even though the strikes have stopped being part of their day-to-day lives. to public transport users is now offered a poor and mediocre service and not only on strike days, it is every day. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u11	Mr João Paulo Correia of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : if we are discussing public transport and non-private transport today it is because the PS Government, with the support of this left-wing parliamentary majority, has prevented the dismantling of the public transport service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PSD and CDS, in the previous Government, launched the greatest attack on the public transport service in Portugal. Two months after the legislative elections, seven privatisation processes were launched: they tried to privatize TAP, privatize CP Cargo, tried to privatize EMEF, tried to privatize Carris, tried to privatize the Lisbon Metropolitan, tried to privatize STCP and tried again to launch the privatization of Metro do Porto. in the case of urban transport of port — metro port and STCP — they launched a direct adjustment — I repeat, it was not a competition, it was a direct adjustment — of 820 million euros, a process with total lack of transparency, against the will of the autarchs of all parties, including the parties and the right-wing autarchs of the metropolitan area of port. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The right-wing strategy for four years from 2011 to 2015 was only one: to degrade the public passenger transport service — to reduce personnel, to reduce fleet, to reduce supply, to reduce security and to increase tariffs. The price of intermodal securities during the first 18 months of term of office of the former PSD Government and the CDS rose by 20 %. Today they protest because of an increase of 1, 5 %, but in the first 18 months of the previous government's term of office, they have increased the price of intermodal securities by 20 %! The strategy was simple: it was to leave public companies at the hands of any private who wanted to take on them and make profit. Let's go to numbers: the reduction in supply at the STCP and the Port Metro between 2010 and 2015 was 24 %. Already in the Carris and the Lisbon Metropolitan, the reduction in supply between 2010 and 2014 was 22 %. Between 2011 and 2015, Carris, Lisbon Metropolitan, Transtejo and Soflusa lost 1000 workers. How is it possible to have a quality service when these companies, which provide a public transport service, lose 1000 workers? Oh, my God! Fortunately for public transport users it was possible to place a final point in the privatisations of urban transport in Lisbon and Porto. The government carried out its commitment, the commitment it had made to the Portuguese: decentralize the operation of Carris, and did so with the City Council of Lisbon ; decentralize STCP to six municipalities of the Metropolitan Area of Porto, which is being practiced. This is the will of the users, this is the will of the autarchs. But we do not fully understand this inconsistency of the right and the PSD. On Mondays, Tuesdays, Thursdays and Fridays they defend decentralization in health, social action and other sectors, but on Wednesdays they are against decentralization to municipal chambers, in the area of transport. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In November 2015, when the mandate of this government began, the STCP company had 844 drivers ; in December 2016, a month ago, it had 921 drivers, registering an increase of 77 drivers in the first year of this government. In 2012 STCP had 93 million passengers. When the PSD and CDS left the government this number dropped to 69 million. In four years the company lost 24 million passengers, a breakdown of 26 %. in the first ten months of 2016, compared to the same period of 2015, the service of the company recorded an increase of 100 000 passengers and the operating results of the company improved because in 2012 they were negative at 10 million euros and when you left the government the operational results of the STCP worsened to 21 million euros negative. As for intermodality, the Pass Andante, in September 2016, incorporated 36 new lines and three new operators. The extension of the network of CP Urbanos do Porto in Andante is confirmed, taking the Walk to Trofa and ensuring more 1 million and 200 000 passengers. The Metropolitan of Lisbon, in the first ten m, the Metro of Porto increased 100 000, Transtejo and Soflusa increased 400 000. As regards revenue, the Metropolitan of Lisbon had an increase of EUR 11 million in the first ten months of 2016 compared to 2015, the Caris of EUR 2 million and 700 thousand, the Port Metro of EUR 2 million and the Transtejo and the Soflusa of EUR 600 thousand.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u13	Mr President, I ask you to conclude, otherwise you will be discounted later in the next intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u14	I shall conclude by saying that, after all, in this sector and in this area there was an alternative policy on privatization. It is proven that managing these companies in the hands of the State is better for users — better service, better offers and more quality. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u15	by the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I wanted to say that the crocodile tears that the PSD brought to debate are a film that will probably only exist on the PSD bench, perhaps the same director who hoped the Devil would appear by the end of last year. This film exists on the basis of efabulations and someone who understands and knows the reality of the country's transport system cannot, of course, accept.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u18	Mrs. Members of the PSD, the problem was the embezzlement of assets and means which the previous government systematically continued to prepare companies for their privatisation, to justify the surrender of public enterprises to private entities, which from a zero degree of public service could shine in a waste of measures and, above all, in a waste of rights, which both users and employees were obliged to support. Consider, for example, the case of MoveAveiro, which was privatized on the 1st of this month. The concrete result of this concession to privates resulted in a complete chaos in terms of public bus and river transport services in Aveiro city. This is the result of the policy that you have defended for four and a half years, to hand over to private people what cannot be handed over to private people. [[PSD protests.]] We are talking about a public transport service that only the State, because it is obliged to defend the public interest, can truly respect. [[Congratulations from BE.]] All private companies which, on behalf of the State, provide an alleged public transport service simply want to defend their interest, because it is based on the payment of state millionaire income to those undertakings which the transport service is insured. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS, the path of public transport to private transport is certainly not the future of public transport defence. The future of defence of public transport is in the maintenance of the public character of these companies, in the approximation of the management of these companies to the local authorities, so that, from the point of view of the development of the needs of the populations, transport can, more quickly, and with closer proximity, satisfy these deficiencies. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, an issue that I did not have the opportunity to mention recently has to do with public investment in the transport sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u19	Sir, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u20	Mr. Minister spoke here about some investment that has developed in the case of Metro do Porto, but, unfortunately, Mr. Minister in all other public transport companies lacks immediate public investment which reflects the levels of supply that existed in 2010 and which prepares the future of the transport system in terms of quality of life of the populations and territories in which the public transport service is inserted. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u21	You have the floor on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Hélder Amaral.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u22	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: We are having a debate which I would like to call « simulation », not even calling « bait ».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u23	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u24	The parties that support the government and the government themselves are making a symbol of defence of the public transport service. And let's see if it's not like that. It is that in 2011 John Paul Correia — and here the Socialist Party's incoherence begins — said on the subject: “ The Greens Ecological Party, the Left Block, and the PCP follow a line of demagogy of their own who prefers to take the side of the problem and never on the side of the solution. Everything that can give them votes shall count on the political use and populism of the extreme left." [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u25	He also said: « The best contribution to the public transport service is to create conditions of economic and financial sustainability for service operators. Today these sustainability conditions are not the same as 2007, 2008 and 2009 ». Perhaps that is why you have entered the Memorandum of Privatization of the COP, the privatisation of the TAP and, of course, a set of sub-concessions. Perhaps that is why the Socialist Party has been the father of the model of private management of the Port Metro — and, as I know, the model of private management remains in the Port Metro, unless Mr Minister denies me and tells me that he will change. But it hasn't changed! That is, there are two pesos and two measures. And this so you don't even tell the gentlemen. Members who cannot be here « cattle trade ». Do you know why, Your Honor? It is that, at the cattle market, « the word given is an honest word», and here it is not the case. [[CDS-PP applause.]] I am now referring to the current transport situation. I am hoping that the Left Block, in a practice that is already common, may allow a petition to be made, signed by Mr Heitor Sousa and the other BE Members, to recommend to the Government the vote against the Minister's budget or resignation or to present a motion of censure to the Government if the situation of public transport does not improve. That would be consistent. Follow the example of Mr Algarve who has already made this recommendation in a petition, recommending himself to vote against the State budget if the Socialist Party does not fulfil the promises it has made. But going further, Minister, we will make an assessment of the current situation of public transport. You have a different model of public transport management, which is legitimate and perfectly acceptable. The question I ask is this: is public service better than it was in the past? He's not! Is he cheaper than he was in the past, that is, costs less money to taxpayers and users? It doesn't cost! The Minister has acknowledged a set of investments, a set of funds to be transferred in compensatory compensation which, in our model, would disappear, and a set, both at the local level and at the level of the State budget, of transfers to the various companies. From now on, EUR 300 million for CP plus EUR 5 million for Metro and Carris. But why do I say the service is worse? I am not going to help myself, nor so much news from the newspapers. I will take care of what is affordable, that is, the opinion of the users, that the CDS respects. The CDS highly respects public service users, respects Portuguese taxpayers and respects public transport and mobility services in urban areas.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u26	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u27	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr Deputy, with your government, the price of tickets has increased, it is more expensive. However, you say 'but we have created a deduction in the IRS for that same service'...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u28	If you do not conclude, Mr President, we will have to discount the CDS time of the second round.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u29	It happens, Mr Minister, that it is virtually impossible to carry out this deduction, such the bureaucracy that you created in order to exercise that right. Above all, the Minister has to explain that 45% of the population does not pay IRS, so he does not have access to this deduction. In other words, the Minister took both hands and can't even give a hand. I needed you to explain that to me. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u30	Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u31	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Last October, when the CFP brought the debate in this House on the serious situation of public transport, the PSD showed that it had just discovered this whole new reality, which was that of the companies in the sector. As we said at the time, they started on the subway when they left the government. They have now made a new discovery, which has left them dazzled and which they have already highlighted here today, which are the user committees and their struggle to defend public transport. PSD and CDS have discovered user commissions and now respect them very much. And they bring here their complaints and their demands. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, don't want me to remind you of the things you said about user committees! Between 2011 and 2015, when they were in the government and wanted to close public transport lines, it was thanks to the struggle of users and transport workers who did not carry your intentions forward. [[PCP applause.]] Don't you want to know what was said at that time by the PSD and the CDS of the user committees and the fight they were fighting against your action to destroy public transport: when you wanted to banish the ferry without ships for the Trafaria, for the Six and for the Montijo, on Saturdays, Sundays and holidays and when you wanted the Lisbon Metropolitan to close at 23 and 21 hours outside the city centre! at that time, users and workers fought hard in defense of transport. And now do you say that you respect them? Oh, my God! Thank you, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you! Open... What we need today, as at that time, is to listen to the workers and transport users regarding the concrete situations they are taking and the measures, which, moreover, had already been put and announced by the Government in previous debates brought over time by the CFP to this House, and at the moment, make that point. That point of view, however, requires concrete solutions and measures to be taken, as we have already moved forward in relation to the statistics, as a result of the report by the workers, and we have been able to move forward to measures which have solved the very serious problem that came from behind. But at the moment, in relation to the Transtejo, the Soflusa and to several companies and transport services throughout the country, in addition to what is being placed here on the Lisbon Metropolitan, for which the CFP has been drawing attention over time, it is in fact necessary to answer the questions felt in the day-to-day life of people. The proposal from the CFP, Mr President and Mr Sr. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very concrete that the House is developing and deepening this work. in this sense, we present at this time the proposal to set up a working group, in the parliamentary committee, to go to the ground, we will go to the branch of Lousã to hear the populations, we will talk to the workers of Metropolitan and Transtejo, to follow in particular the measures that must be taken and the concrete solutions that must be taken to solve these diagnoses that we all now see, but that at the time, no one can see, when the CFP here brought the concrete denunciation and the problems of companies, workers and users. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u32	Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Minister, we know — certainly Mr Minister will also recognise it — that an efficient and quality public transport network is very important, not only as a way of guaranteeing the right to mobility of people but also because it represents environmental, economic and social benefits that are indisputable. Collective transport is undoubtedly a more environmentally friendly option by reducing motor traffic and consequently greenhouse gas emissions. What it means is that we are talking about an absolutely decisive element when we talk about combating climate change and the need to respond to the commitments made in this area at the international level. That is why investment in public transport should be an absolute priority. We know that the problems are many and that they are not now either. In addition, it is sufficient to see that since the first time the ‘day without cars’ was marked, which was intended to raise people's awareness of the use of public transport to the detriment of the use of the particular car, public transport in Great Lisbon lost 10 % of passengers in that period. In 16 years public transport lost 10 % of passengers. The main reason for these worrying figures is the lack of investment which has occurred over the years, with a particular impact in the years of governance of the PSD and CDS, which have left public transport in absolute disgrace and in real chaos, as it has already been recognised today by the PSD itself : lack of personnel, obsolete circulating material, machines and locomotives stopped by lack of parts, suppression of careers, and out there. We know that it is not easy, Mr Minister, and that things are not resolved overnight, especially after the framework left to us by the previous government, the PSD and the CDS — in fact, a very well-portraited framework today, by Mr Carlos Silva, in his speech. But, Mr Minister, since the current government has made a commitment to make a strong investment in public transport, the Greens believe it would be a good time for the Minister here to be able to make a diagnosis of this commitment and also of the degree of realisation at the level of investment. It is that the situation is dramatic and reaches all public transport operators and all the points of the country: it is the suburban trains, especially those of the Cascais line, but not only, it is Caris, it is the Lisbon Metropolitan, it is the river links between the banks of the Tagus, and there. And on the river links between the banks of the Tejo, Minister, I wanted to leave you a question already. Even recently, the Seixalinho Board of Users has reported the lack of ships in navigable conditions, either for reasons of failure or for the absence of a required certificate, whether due to lack of operational personnel, decommissioning of the company, constant delays or even abolition of careers. Users remember, in fact, the black days lived in a fortnight last month, when the connection to Montijo was particularly affected by numerous careers had been eliminated. Mr Minister, it is necessary to ensure that these situations do not repeat themselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u34	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u35	I shall conclude, Mr President. Today, Lisbon's connections to Montijo and Seixal are being made only by six boats, because 20 of them are hanging. Therefore, it would be appropriate for you to tell us something about these river links in the Tagus, particularly those in Montijo, because in fact the previous government, the PSD and the CDS, left public transport in real chaos. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u36	Mr. Environment Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u37	Mr President, if you do not find it inconvenient, I would like to share part of the response with Mr. Under-Secretary of State and the Environment. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I begin by saying that the numbers, like cotton, do not fool: the regularity of the offer has increased even in all companies in 2016. I don't want to hide the many surprises we've had, but regularity has really increased. And it's a fact that the users' trust has returned. More 7, 2 million passengers are proof that users' confidence has returned, and, of course, with this return, it has also returned to its requirement. It seems clear to me that what happened in recent years, with a loss of 25% of demand, was that there were many who simply stopped believing in collective transport and therefore also stopped complaining when collective transport worked worse. And because we achieved, exactly as I said in the CTS, despite the increase in demand—and it was the increase even more tenuous in all companies—to increase the supply by 5 %, the number of complaints decreased by 70 % during 2016. These are also numbers that are part of our daily lives, recognizing and insisting that we do not escape any responsibilities and that we know that we have a lot of work ahead of us. Mr. Hélder Amaral, on the issue of numbers and accounts, is very evident the improvement of 2015 for 2016. The figures I have are not from the end of the year, they are from the end of November, but five of the six companies had a positive EBITDA—as I said, the only one that did not have it was the STCP—and the volume of revenue increased by 4, 7 % without any increase in the tariff over that year. We have no doubt as to what would have happened if sub-concessions had advanced. The value that would be paid—they call it investment, but it is exactly the opposite, of course it is the payment of a service—in the case of the Lisbon Metropolitan, it does not even cover the value of wages and the value of energy. It was therefore unthinkable that, about a year ago, there had been no collective dismissal and there had been no major degradation of the functioning of these companies. Mr Heitor Sousa, although, with regard to investment in Transtejo and Soflusa — I would like to mention, because we do not hide it — we need to arrive at the end of February with the plan that is being drawn up in order to be able to know more in detail what is required of us this year, the investment in the Metropolitan of Lisbon, for example, is in the eyes of everyone, do not have the slightest doubt. We are talking about EUR 30 million for investment in this budget, of which the most expressive piece, with about EUR 4 million already spent next year, has to do with the Arroios station. The same is true for the Areeiro station, the same is true for the Military College, the same is true for a set of other stations that I will not list here. After a program, the PO SEUR (Operational Programme Sustainability and Efficiency in Resource Use), which was designed with the guarantee that, if it remained as it was, there would never be a lot of Community funds either for circulating material or for new works in expansions of the Lisbon metro network, the works are announced, the projects are beginning and we feel they are of the greatest relevance. The same applies to buses. I don't want to blame anyone, but it's a fact that since 2011 we haven't bought a single bus for STCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u38	Not for Carris either!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u39	This four-year interruption is not resumed at the end of four days, it is impossible to do so. I'm not calling anyone guilty, but no bus was bought for four years. We are now concluding the notices, which close at the end of February, so that we can invest in the purchase of 600 buses for the whole country, not only for the STCP and Caris, of which 200 will be for the STCP and 200 for the Caris - but also, of course, depends on the merit of the applications submitted by the companies. It was not even possible to make this recovery faster. with regard to bogies, the issue has already been resolved. We already have all the parts we need, maintenance is ongoing and, as I said in the initial speech, two of the Lisbon subway compositions, which were 23, went into operation yesterday. Therefore, we firmly believe that 2017 is the year in which we will be able to respond to this new trust. Despite the many attacks we had over the year, the Portuguese again felt a public transport offer, which will continue to be public while we are in government. Mr President, if you do not oppose it, I now call on the Under-Secretary of State and the Environment to continue to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u40	The floor is then Mr Under-Secretary of State and the Environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : References were made by the CDS bank to increases in transport prices in 2017. On this subject, it is worth recalling, Mr Hélder Amaral, that, when an increase is made in the transport tariff, two situations must be balanced: firstly, the concern at maintaining transport accessible to families and, secondly, the concern about the sustainability of transport undertakings,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u42	Ah...!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u43	...that, of course, they have to have room to reinvest in the system. It was taken into account the balance of these two situations that we decided to increase transport prices by 1, 5 % this year.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u44	You have to explain that to the left benches!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u45	I would also like to say that, in parallel with this increase in transport prices, there is a possibility for families to deduct up to 100 % of VAT (value added tax) paid in IRS ( income tax for natural persons ). [[Protests from the CDS-PP Deputies Cecilia Meireles and Hélder Amaral.]] Mr. Hélder Amaral said that only part of the families pays IRS, but it is always worth helping those families who pay IRS than any family, which was VV. Ex. They did. I would also like to say that what is a simulation and an ambush, to use the words of Mr. Hélder Amaral, is the pseudodefense of the transport system on the right, the CDS and the PSD. Otherwise, we see: as soon as they arrived at the government in 2011 they immediately implemented an increase in transport prices in the metropolitan area of Lisbon by 15 % — 15 %, Mr, so that it will not be forgotten! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Only six months later, on the same passes applied a second increase of 5 %! [[Protests of CDS-PP Members.]] the following year it increased again, and only did it not increase the transport price in 2015, perhaps because there were elections.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u46	Now they've dropped them or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u47	Therefore, it seems to me that those who do not defend the users are surely the parties on the right, because we are talking about extraordinary increases in the period when the most important cut in incomes of Portuguese families took place. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] That, Mr. Hélder Amaral, is certainly not to defend the transport system. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u48	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we move on to the second round. Mr Luís Leite Ramos of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u49	Mr. President, Mr. Minister for the Environment, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The Left Block today brought the debate, in this plenary, a very important issue, that of public transport. We thought the debate was intended to denounce the lack of public investment and the degradation of transport services. We were waiting for a serious debate, which would have to start with a solemn act of contribution from the Left Block and the Communist Party on the responsibility that the respective parliamentary groups and parties have in this regard. Unfortunately, we saw a review report — it has no other term — of the series « I have nothing to do with this». VV. They have nothing to do with what happened in transport — that is what they are telling Parliament and the country! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u50	This is a total lack of shame and shame, Mr. Heitor Sousa. Otherwise, let us see: then the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party first negotiate and approve Budgets, then let the Government adopt its plan b with a brutal cut of public expenditure and now complain about the lack of investment, lack of material resources, lack of staff, degradation of services? Oh, my God! If it were not dramatic, Mr, it was certainly hilarious. You may well continue to make inflamed statements, organize demonstrations and protests with your trade unions and user committees.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u51	But are there demonstrations or are there no demonstrations? We're already fighting.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u52	None of this removes your responsibility, your veiled complicity and co-responsibility for the approvals of the policies of this government and its consequences. You are complicit and responsible for the policy of reversals and pure revenge which has been adopted by this Government, particularly in the field of transport. You are complicit and responsible for de-investment in the sector, with seizures and blind cuts in maintenance, operation, quality of public service! You are complicit and responsible for the treatment of favour given to the Chamber of Lisbon and for the injustice committed against the rest of the country, which will continue to pay for the removals and debts of transport in the metropolitan areas of Porto and Lisbon! [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by Mr. BE Heitor Sousa.]] You are complicit and responsible for this transport policy, which aims only to guarantee the support of the PCP and buy the silence of the CGTP ( General Confederation of Portuguese Workers ). This was the main pillar of this transport policy, which continues to feed an electoral agenda that sacrifices the public interest and some corporations of particular interests. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u53	You should be ashamed of your face because you're making that figure!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u54	Ladies and gentlemen. Members: The complaints of the Left Block, and for the majority of reasons of the PCP, are pathetic and cynical.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u55	Look who's talking!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u56	So, Mrs Catarina Martins and Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, when they participate in the meetings of the parliamentary troika, do not ask for more investment, more resources, more workers? Oh, my God! When the government promises, announces, swears and then doesn't, does the Left Block and the PCP not ask for responsibilities? Oh, my God! Don't you require resignation? Oh, my God! Are you happy with what you've seen on your media roadshow on the subway and Caris? Oh, my God! Is that why you supported this government and approved the Budgets? Oh, my God! Are you telling the country and the Portuguese to sign your agreements with the PS by cross? Oh, my God! Are you telling the country that they let the government that supports and supports turn captivity into blind cuts? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u57	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u58	I will finish, Mr. President. You are as responsible as the government, your government, for the lack of public investment and for the degradation of public services. VV. Ex.as are accomplices of this government. Do not play with the Portuguese or the Country; they both deserve to be taken seriously. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u59	Mr Carlos Pereira of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin this by leaving two previous notes. The first is to say that I have listened carefully to Mr Carlos Silva, from the PSD. I must say that I have even appreciated the energy and enthusiasm with which you spoke in the alleged dismantling and effective dismantling of the public transport system in Portugal, just because I think that you have been wrong about the recipient because the recipients of your intervention are in fact his bank, the PSD bench and the CDS bench, because you deliberately dismantled the public transport system in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Carlos Santos Silva.]] The second note is addressed to Mr Hélder Amaral. Mr President, this debate on public transport is not a simulation, as you called it. One simulation is indeed the position of the CDS on public transport, because on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays it has one position and on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays it has another position. That is more than clear and has been more clear than clear in this same debate. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Fortunately for the country, for the cities, for the workers and for the mobility of the Portuguese, the PS arrived in time to prevent the way of privatization that the right was doing in Portugal. In fact, everything was getting swamped, you were ruining everything, you were ruining the public transport system. That is why, at this point in which the public transport system is being discussed, it is worth remembering that the right has done everything to deepen this system, so as to gain momentum — that is what you wanted — for the privatization that you wanted so much. The data are, in fact, crushing and reveal a government in complete conflict with the basic principles of good urban mobility. With the PSD and the CDS, there was a deliberate de-investment in public transport, as already said here, and a clear disqualification of the decisive importance of an efficient public transport system at the service of the citizen for the sustainability of the country. That is why the right has left a mark in this area of public transport, an inheritance of the time when they ruled Portugal. With them, public transport carried fewer and fewer passengers, provided fewer services and charged more and more to users. in fact, the fall in demand for public transport has been brutal in all systems. Only in Carris — it is good to say this — the search fell 34 % between 2011 and 2012 and in the four years of the PSD/CDS government, Metropolitan and Carris lost 25 % of the passengers. The average price increase was evident, as has already been said here, and was relevant. You made two price increases in 2011 of 15 % and 5 %, and it is absolutely unbelievable that today you are outraged by the 1, 5 % increase, the same value that is expected for inflation. The reduction of services occurred in an absolutely deliberate manner on the part of the Portuguese right. Moreover, at the time they were in the government, Metro and Carris lost more than 1000 workers, a truly scary situation that has already been mentioned here. That is why, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what the country should not forgive is this gross idea of the PSD and the CDS that we can pass well without the benefits of public transport and that it is worth everything to push its privatization. That is why we have taken a step forward, which the Government has taken a step forward, which prevents the privatization of the public transport system, that we ensure the public character of transport and that we promote its decentralization, calling for the management of the municipalities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u61	Mr José Soeiro, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of the Environment: Mr Luís Leite Ramos, from the PSD, are you serious about the concern about public transport by the PSD, which has deteriorated public transport to the limit in the years in which it was government? Oh, my God! Did you really have the courage to say that the Left Block and the PCP are responsible for disinvestment in public transport? Oh, my God! Mr. Member, in 2011, there were compensations of 19 million of the State to STCP, and in 2015 4 million — this is called de-investment made by the PSD and the CDS. The honourable Member here suggested that this debate should be transformed into an act of contribution. All right, Mr. Deputies. It advances in the contribution for the four years in which the right destroyed and wanted to privatize public transport, in which it deteriorated to the limit, in which it aged the fleet by not acquiring any buses to SCTP, in which it allowed SCTP to stop making 150 000 trips per year by putting users waiting on the stops, because the buses did not arrive, because there were no drivers to do the races, because there were no conditions, because you were interested in degrading the public service to privatize it. [[PSD protests.]] in the years of your government, only in port there were 10 km bus range that were eliminated, there were thousands of passengers that were lost by STCP, in addition to the cut they made in passes for the elderly and students. Therefore, the fight against privatization and degradation that the PSD and CDS government have sought to do, and they have done, was important and began to be defeated when we guarantee the public ownership of companies. But now there are many challenges, because I would like to address Mr Minister about these challenges. First challenge: recovering passengers. The positive news was the hiring of 160 drivers to STCP and the acquisition of new buses. But I ask: when will these 200 new buses be purchased? However, Mr Minister, passengers do not recover without lowering the price of passes, without ensuring that networks and careers reach all over the territory, without long-term transport, particularly at night. According to challenge and concern: currently, more than 30 private operators operating in the Metropolitan Area of Porto are trying to push careers, operating areas, geographical areas and routes that are from STCP. This has happened because there has not been sufficient and necessary supervision of these abusive and illegal practices of private operators. In fact, some autoarchs made disturbing statements saying that they understand that STCP should be shrinked, small and reduced to the historical center. On the one hand, we need to ensure that private individuals do not go to areas, careers and routes of the STCP and, on the other hand, to ensure the expansion of the STCP, because it provides a much better quality, safer service and with more environmental criteria than private operators.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u63	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u64	Finally, Mr President, I would like to ask the Minister the following: when is the enlargement of the Port to Vila d'Este, Trofa and Gondomar? What is the point of valuing transport workers in terms of renewal of careers and recognition of shiftwork? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u65	The CDS-PP Parliamentary Group will make an intervention in two voices. Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor, first of all.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u66	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: I intend to clarify two things. First thing to clarify: on STCP, Mr. José Moura Soeiro, our model provided for the renewal of the STCP fleet paid by the private and a company with know-how on the subject. You know the VV solution. Ex.A.? It is the renewal of the fleet to be made with taxpayers'money via state budget. It's a whole difference, Mr. Deputies!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u67	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u68	The second thing that needs to be clarified is that the options are legitimate and I agree with the objectives that the Secretary of State has set out, but we must take the point. The question to be asked is: is the public transport service today better or worse than it was in the past? The answer is: it's worse!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u69	That's better!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u70	For example, CDU President Joaquim Seixas...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u71	It's not Seixas, it's Seixal!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u72	... he said on 4 December that he had less than 73 % of the fleet and a huge deficit of Transtejo ships. Mr. Secretary of State, what did the users say? In fact, they complained about the price of tickets, complained about the lack of alternative transport on strike days, and complained about the price of tickets. It is clear that there are no strikes now, because, between users and unions, they have opted for unions. So there are no strikes, but the problems continue, and they have even increased. I asked a clear question and you even put social sensitivity to waste. So is it possible for you to increase transport prices and say that you will create 100 % discount within IRS? Oh, my God! The most needy, the poorest population does not pay IRS and it is the one that needs public transport! You guys are making a mess! Mr. Secretary of State, you have to explain this measure better. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u73	You now have the floor on behalf of the CDS-PP, Mr Pedro Mota Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u74	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: Mr Minister spoke a lot about the fact that public transport is an alternative to private transport, so he wanted to talk to you about a very specific case in which this is not happening, which is the case with the Cascais line. at this moment, more people circulate in the A5 between Cascais and Lisbon than in the train of the Cascais line. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u75	This line has lost about 20 million passengers in the last 20 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u76	Three years ago, no! They're here to skate!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u77	at this time, the line is obsolete, there is an insufficient supply of trains, there are systematic delays—it is, in fact, the line that was delayed last year—and the truth, Minister, is that a solution for this line was planned, such as a public investment with Community funds of EUR 176 million and, at the same time, a private investment in rolling stock, in carriages, made through a concession. With the change of government, what happened? There was no investment — it was relocated elsewhere — and the government has not yet found an alternative for public investment. What about concessions? Don't even think about concessions! Just talk about concessions and the leftmost benches start right in a screamer. Mr Minister, I ask you very specifically the following: what is the alternative that the Government will present? As we have talked a lot about the local power, I also ask you when the government will be worthy to receive the Cascais City Council, the Oeiras City Council and the Lisbon City Council, who have already said that they can have a solution, that they want to find a solution, but that they cannot dialogue with the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u78	You don't even know where the train is.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u79	What is the solution and when are you going to be worthy of receiving the municipal chambers? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u80	For an intervention, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: We had some doubts that the CDS knew exactly where to get the train from the Cascais line and now we are aware that they do not know who the minister is protecting the railway sector. [[PS laughter.]] We will have to continue this discussion, but it will be for another day, of course. for our part, we want to draw attention to a central aspect in this discussion and that has to do with what has been done by the Government of the PSD and the CDS and the way in which public transport has come. This situation requires that what is decided today take into account the impact of the policies that have been carried out, not only in the operational area, but also in the price increase, which, on average, was now 1 %, followed by the gross increases over years, which Mr Secretary of State has already mentioned. The result was that since 2011 the L123 pass increased by 25 % in accumulated terms; in the case of the passage to the third age, the increase was 102 %; in the case of the CP ticket to four zones, the increase was, except error by 19 %. The tariff revenue is nowhere in Europe, the fundamental factor in the financing of public transport undertakings—it is not! — but it is a fundamental factor in attracting or avoiding the use of public transport. And it is in this concrete context that decisions are taken. In fact, in private transport companies in our country, the tickets were more expensive and it was not 1, 5 %, more. They were well above 1, 5 % — media issues always have this problem. On the other hand, we must draw attention to the need to strengthen supply, supply regularity and the number of movements and careers available to the people, because what happened over these four years was a very large decrease in the supply of public transport. Therefore, it is not on that basis or on that point of departure that we have to look at the measures to be taken by companies and the operational supply. We need to restore the response capacity that was withdrawn by the previous government and these are the measures that are placed on the table from an operational and investment point of view. It is urgent to start work at the Arroios station, in the green line, but, until that day, it is necessary to put the Metropolitan around with four carriages. When starting the work, the situation will be different, As for what is happening in the Transtejo, urgent and immediate measures are needed in relation to the operational capacity of the offer of the river line to passengers. With regard to the South Tejo Transport ( TST ), we put here a very concrete question. A few months ago, the Assembly of the Republic adopted, on a proposal from the CFP, a resolution alerting the central State and the authorities for the failure to comply with the TST company that was being felt in the supply, harming populations and users. The question is as follows: at the moment, by the authorities, what is the answer? It is that there is no change on the ground. There are no solutions and there are no answers to the problems populations are feeling. Mr. Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, strengthen our opposition, which is also known for the political options of delivery to the municipalities of STCP and Carris.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u82	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u83	I'm done now, Mr. President. In this House we have already given a parliamentary assessment of the STCP and we want to announce that we will also deliver a parliamentary assessment of the decree-law on the municipalization of Carris. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u84	Even in this second round, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr Hélder Amaral referred to the renewal of the SCTP fleet, but that did not happen. There was no renewal of the fleet!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u86	It was planned. You guys didn't want it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u87	You said something that didn't happen! Mr Pedro Mota Soares is right in the name of the train line but is not right in the name of the minister. With time, you can go there! [[CDS-PP protests.]] Mr Minister, we are still waiting for you to tell us something about the river links of the Tejo, especially those of Montijo. The Lisbon Metropolitan provides a service that is far from responding to the needs of users: there is a lack of personnel, delays, fixed trains, degraded stations and even mechanical means that are constantly broken. In addition to all these problems, in 2012, with the PSD/CDS government, to vary, the metropolitan of Lisbon decreased from four to three the number of carriages circulating on the green line. As we know, this is one of the most user lines, because it has river connections and CP trains. Therefore, Mr Minister, I would like you to tell us what plans you have for the Metropolitan of Lisbon and, in particular, for the replacement of the four carriages of the green line, until six trains can be moved after the completion of the works of the Arroios station. Mr Minister, last Monday, we were reunited with the workers of Carris Bus. These workers, who, in fact, should belong to Caris, from the outset because Carris cannot operate without repair and without maintenance, work in worse conditions and with lower wages than Carris workers. According to what we have been able to ascertain, the board of directors of this company refuses to sign any document aimed at collective bargaining, thus perpetuating precariousness and low wages. In this regard, I recall that the State budget for this year establishes the primacy of collective bargaining for companies in the state business sector. Therefore, it is necessary to take care of this principle even before Carris goes to the Authority, as the government claims. Mr Minister, I ask you whether the Government is considering providing guidance so that Carris Bus workers can at least benefit from the company agreement that is today Caris. [[Congrats from the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u88	I have the floor, Mr Environment Minister, which brings together the time it has allocated for this round as long as it is available to make the closing intervention. I hope, therefore, that you do not use as long as you have available. The Minister for the Environment then has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u89	Mr President, Mr Leite Ramos, I think that there is a minimum of Jewish-Christian complexes pervading the common Portuguese, but in fact this complex does not affect you at least because you reject completely any responsibility of your party and of the former Government as regards the situation of collective transport, which I do not think, from an intellectual point of view, a serious exercise. The PSD has not invested, the PSD has generated a model that would damage the public service, even from a financial point of view, which I will comment on. The example that you gave about Carris is an intellectual facet. Mr. Deputies, what model was the historical debt on account of who was coming to explore? How, without degrading, miserable levels of service, is that it is possible to pay with the operation the same historical debt, which results exclusively from the accumulation — and would lie if it were said to be only from the previous government — of a liability in which no one paid the public service obligations. In fact, it is an intellectual face when you say that the model, which has been approved, published and already promulgated by the President of the Republic in decree, is a model in which taxpayers are obliged to pay. Mr. Deputies, that's how it's exactly the opposite... It's really the opposite, and there's no giving again! It is clear that the debt of the past, as in fact, in the sub-concessions that you have tried to do — and there would be no other way — would be paid by the taxpayers. The only way to avoid harming taxpayers is to ensure that it is not with the operation of the future that this debt will be paid, because otherwise, what would be bad would become - even worse - and, as is normal, as in all other authorities in this country, the Authority of Lisbon and the six authorities where the STCP provides public service will start to pay for public service obligations. Mr. Hélder Amaral, I will not use adjectives, but it is a fact that, yes, it would be the new dealership to buy buses. And the old buses, buses that could be diesel, which would necessarily be diesel, of course, Mr. Deputies, would have to be paid, in the part that was not amortised, at the end of the concession and in a way that only harmed taxpayers, for a very simple reason: it is that the model of depreciation of buses that VV. Ex.thes designed is a linear model, i.e. when they were paid the accounting value that had to be paid was much higher than the actual value of the buses. Therefore, the model that you have drawn — there is no giving again — is a model that, if you want, facilitates treasury on the first day, but, even from the economic and financial point of view, is a disastrous model, because buses would even have to be paid in that way. It's an absolutely disastrous model! Mr. José Soeiro asked when the buses start arriving at the company. As I said, the warning is open—it is not a fiction-, it is EUR 60 million for, contrary to what the previous previous government (which required buses to be diesel and allowed them to be in second hand), buy new buses, all gas or electric. As you know, there is a procedure for public procurement and the manufacture of buses themselves, which does not happen in a fingermill either, the companies are already preparing these competitions and I want to firmly believe that, because there is no problem of lack of financial capacity for this to happen, that during 2017 some of these buses arrive at the company. What's the time frame? It is three years, from 2017 to 2019, but certainly still during 2017 some buses will start arriving at companies. Mr Deputie, with all due respect, the model of the STCP we have drawn is the model that most defends the stability of the company and its own size of the network, because from the moment that the STCP becomes internal operator of the Metropolitan Area of Porto has no limitations for that same network to be extended—in fact, the antennas, as they call the lines outside the city itself of Porto, were being contested in the way they were attributed to the STCP by ANTROP (National Association of Passenger Freight Carriers), with an order from the former Secretary of State Sergio Monteiro, and with this model is completely healed, because it becomes clear that they are part of the STCP network. Therefore, I repeat with great conviction that the model designed by us is a model in which the stability of the jobs and of the company itself as internal operator of the Port Metropolitan Area is guaranteed. As for the transition from the three to the four carriageways, like all the franchise, there are three, six, nine and the multiples are multiple of three. Having four carriages, which fit physically at the Arrios station, obliges that, for four carriages, there must be two motor units and it doesn't make sense that this happens. In other words, the service could be marginally improved in the green line, but in fact, a lot of traction capacity was lost in the entire metro network itself. That is why we will not do so, not because of any embarrassment, but because we have no doubt that if we did it we would not have any improvement, on the contrary we would have a worseity.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u90	But there can be six and there can't be four? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u91	Therefore, I reaffirm our commitment, the commitment of a road, which is certainly not only made with roses, but where 2017 will even be the year of turn. Regarding Transtejo and Soflusa, I already recognized it, in all the companies that we protected those who have a more crushed budget, where much has to be done in the field of maintenance... I repeat: in 2015 3 docks were made and in 2016 10 docks were made, but the ideal number are 15 docks, because if we have more or less 30 ships and the navigation certificate is worth for two years the account is very easy to do. In fact, we have made a very big approximation to our obligations and we will continue to do, most importantly, now that we have a fully-focused administration in the management of these two companies and with gains which, I repeat, although they are of very recent date, are important. It is that going from 32 suppressions last 15th of last year to 9 in the first 15th of this year is undoubtedly an expressive qualitative leap which, I assure you, is not conjunctural, although, of course, the time when these 9 suppressions happened, perhaps, was not in a dead hour, at four in the afternoon, was, yes, in a rush hour and this affected a significant number of people. I would like to say now that, if it seems clear the importance of discussing the six companies that we were talking about, it was extremely reducing to focus this discussion only on those companies which together represent only one third of the whole sector. Transport is responsible for 25 % of CO2 emissions in Portugal, which is also very comparable to that of other countries in the European Union. in the global challenge to combat climate change, in which Portugal is inevitably in world leadership — some wanted to go beyond the troika, our goal is to be in line with the implementation of the Paris Agreement —, reducing emissions, without doubt, means improving transport efficiency and promoting solutions to populations of much greater sustainability. We bear in mind that transport accounts for 15 % of the cost of the family budget and that is the greatest expense immediately after housing. It is because of the transport system that most of us have access to employment, education and public services. Ensuring accessibility throughout the territory should therefore be a particular attention factor for all of us, favouring public transport and creating real alternatives to the use of own vehicles based on collective and shared modes is one of the fastest ways to reduce transport costs and thus increase the income of families. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: We do not devalue any of the problems with broken carriages in the metropolitan of Lisbon. It is certainly an important fact that we have to discuss, but we have to discuss the company is in fact to do more than that, and I invite you to reflect with the Government on the general framework, the framework that is of interest to the Lisboa, but also to the Portuguese and all other metropolitan inhabitants and the rest of the country. Government policy is clearly giving priority to people and that means that we want everyone to have access to public transport and that we are committed to supporting this decision, starting with those who need it most. For this reason, we have extended the Social Pass + to the whole country and we will recover the Sub23, by suggestion generated in this same Parliament, without a condition of resources at national level, allowing young people access to public transport under more competitive conditions. But we also think of the families and the State Budget for 2017 that families can deduct 100 % of the value of VAT of the passes, that is, 6 % of that value of the passes, thus becoming the cheapest and most accessible public transport for all. With these decisions, we have significantly increased State support for the sector and, contrary to the past, the whole country. We also know that we have to do different and in order to do different we will have to create different solutions and different actors. That is why our policy is focused on giving priority to innovation. Thinking about decarbonization, we resume the path of electric mobility, enhancing not only Portugal's wager in renewables and therefore in solutions for the transport of real zero emissions, but also enhancing what is, unequivocally, the mobility of the future with increasingly competitive operational costs. In the field of decarbonisation we will also promote one of the greatest public support for road transport fleets ever launched in Portugal and of which I have been talking during my speeches. It will be EUR 60 million that will be used to put more than 500 new buses across the country and all of them with high environmental performance. Thinking about low-density areas we created flexible transport regulations and with this regulation it is possible at very low cost, as they already do now councils such as Mação, Sardoal, Abrantes, to take public transport to the population living in isolated areas, creating accessibility and promoting inclusion. Thinking about urban centers opens up to innovation. We have sent to this House what we consider to be a modern regulation, which protects consumers, protects workers and imposes obligations without privileged classes. It is a way of offering new products that people, unequivocally, are looking for. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we need different actors, we need cities, municipalities, autoarchs. The policy of this government is also here, unequivocally, and decentralising is a word of greatest importance. Therefore, we have incorporated into the State Budget for 2017 the necessary allocation for the Fund for the Public Transport Service and we have the IMT ( Institute for Mobility and Transport) to work actively in the training of these municipal and supra-municipal actors. I do not hide this from you that this is one of our most ambitious reforms and we feel that, despite examples such as those coming from the Metropolitan Area of Porto, this is a theme that does not yet mobilize the generality of the country's autarchs. We do not believe that the government or the IMT from Lisbon know what is the missing career in Ericeira, Bragança, or Lagos. It is the autoarchs and the inter-municipal communities that will know it, that they can, with the few resources that we all have, do better. I invite all of you, believing in this process of decentralization, to work with the government to implement this reform. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u92	Thank you very much, Minister João Pedro Matos Fernandes. For the last intervention in this debate, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u93	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: If this debate aimed to prove the release of the PSD or CDS, it did not, but it became clear and unequivocal, that was it! If this debate aimed to prove the lack of PSD and CDS smell, it did not, but it became clear that this is unequivocal! [[PSD protests.]] Mrs. Members of the PSD and the CDS, do you remember what Mr. Secretary of State Sergio Monteiro said when he heard the people fighting for better public services, for ending cuts in public transport? Do you remember what he said here in this Parliament? He said: "I do not hear them! » And we understand what he meant; he said he did not want to hear them!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u94	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u95	I did not want to hear people, their criticisms and their fair demands! And what did the Members and Members of the PSD and the CDS say at the time? Shut up!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u96	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u97	They realized that they agreed with Sérgio Monteiro, because they even agreed with Sérgio Monteiro and did not want to hear the populations. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] For this reason, only the discharge of the PSD and the CDS is demonstrated in this debate, when they come here to say that they are concerned about the concerns of the population. Discharge! Smellless! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The contribution of the PSD and CDS is seen when they are against the increase in transport — and could even be, because it would be fair that new position, but when they increased transport only in one year. So you realize: they're probably against, because they think the increase is too short and they wanted a lot more! 20 % increase in transport: this is the legacy of PSD and CDS! 20 % increase in transport costs! They were talking about investment in public transport companies, when it was the PSD and the CDS that cut investment in public transport companies. What did they want to do? Privatize, give away, asking private money that wasn't enough to pay the wages as much as possible for investment! And, now, you come to say that you are worried...! Is that what you're talking about? What a waste! What a shame! This is the legacy of PSD and CDS! But now we could admit that there was a change of circumstances here and that suddenly « they saw the light», they saw that they were actually wrong. But let's ask, then, what would PSD and CDS do if they were in the government right now? Or what do they, for example, do in the government of the authorities? Dr. Assumption Cristos, still a few weeks ago, went to visit the President of the City Hall of Aveiro, Dr. Ribau Esteves, and said nothing about the privatization of MoveAveiro but the populations are struggling there because they know what a concession means, cut in transports, brutal increase in transport prices, stay waiting at the bus stop because they can't get in, because they are overcrowded. Was there any word from the CDS about it? Nothing! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm telling you, it just reminds me of that song by Sérgio Godinho that he said there was someone he was finding. PSD and CDS are sure to be waiting for the train to stop the bus — that is the only conclusion we can draw on this matter. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr Minister, let me say that this debate has not been scheduled so that we can vote on the PSD and CDS, for many reasons we have on this subject. There are real and unequivocal problems in public transport and it is about solutions that we want to make this debate. The Left Block identified the problems here and we present concrete solutions. We do not agree with the increase in transport, even if it is 1, 5 %. We know that it is not the 20 % that PSD and CDS have increased, but it is incomprehensible to those who cannot enter the subway because it is overcrowded, to whom the careers at the door have not yet been restored, to whom they continue not to see the changes in the hours, keeping the cuts that PSD and CDS had, and demanding that more transport be paid. That's not understandable for us. We know that there is a government intention to invest, but the problem is that this investment takes time. Delays the investment in new buses, delays the investment in the updating of rolling stock of the train lines, delays the investment that gives the capacity for public transport to be truly a service to the populations. We started this legislation well, with regard to public transport, where it was urgent to do so, we stopped the privatizations that were the destructive concessions of the PSD and CDS. But the feeling that we are now beginning to have is that this agenda of construction of a future that ends with the legacy of the troika begins to "skating" and this urgent debate has that name precisely because that is our feeling, the urgency of responding by public services to the people who leave behind the legacy of the troika and who guarantee that we are here to serve the people in the right direction. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u98	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have thus reached the end of the first item on our agenda, the urgent debate required by the Left Block on public transport. We move on to the second point, which consists in the general discussion of Bill No. 322 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Create the forest management account ( CDS-PP ), together with draft resolution No 609 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the allocation of financial support to forest producers ( BE ). To present the bill, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u99	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When we talk about forest, there is a set of subjects in which there is widespread consensus. It is recognised by all the strategic role of the forest sector for the development of the country, either as exporter or as a job generator. It is also consensual that the reality of the property structure constitutes a limitation in terms of profitability and competitiveness, 97 % of the forest area is private and 87 % of that area is very small, it has no more than three hectares. It is also consensual that the forest provides, indisputably, a set of social benefits that are not measurable but that have essential usefulness. For all this, it is also accepted by all who justify a special State intervention throughout the forest. When we talk about forest we have to distinguish two types: production forest and conservation forest. If in the conservation forest it is also relatively consensual that the role of the State should be to ensure that the various uses do not nullify this conservation function, already in the production forest, which contributes to the creation of wealth, opinions are more diverse. The CDS is clear in this regard: State intervention should go through policies to encourage investment and good forest management which are a stimulus to owners who otherwise do not feel compelled to do so often because they do not have financial capacity to do so. That is why, when we were government, we introduced a set of tax rules in the context of green taxation reform and IRS and IRC reform, but we believe that the current tax framework can and should be improved. Therefore, we present this bill, which proposes the creation of a forest management account that is no more than a financial provision for forest investment. Why? Since the revenues and costs are generally exceeded over time, what we propose is that producers can somehow captivate 30 % of forest revenues in the year in which they occur and that will therefore be considered as tax costs and that, when used later, for forest investment, is again considered as the cost of the year, thus generating a tax benefit. We know, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, this will not be the only solution. We know that improving the profitability of our forest is not exhausted from this proposal, but we also know that it is not exhausted from the establishment of forest management societies as proposed by the Government. We believe that this measure, alongside those already existing, of those that are planned and others that may be created, will be another important contribution to encouraging investment in forests in a universe of thousands of owners who do not have the financial capacity to do so without this stimulus. This same proposal was submitted for the State Budget for 2017 and was rejected by the parties supporting the government. Perhaps they have not understood it well and we are therefore willing to work it best in the specialty, but a vote against will certainly be misunderstood by all who hear the government, every day, speaking in forest reform and the need to improve the competitiveness of our forest. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u100	I'm asking the ladies. Members of the other parliamentary groups who wish to participate in this debate are in favour of joining. You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. Carlos Matias, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u101	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In 2013 it was 35 % the continental area of the country covered by forest shrub. The area to the bush, and which can, for the most part, be cultivated with forest, has a similar area. Now, while the first one, the one in the forest, has been reducing, the second one has been increasing. Most of the country's forest shrub is located in areas of small and medium-sized property, where agriculture was, in times, subsistence and very small family units. The forest and the land to the bush were then kept sufficiently clean, making it difficult to hatch fires. If they hatched they were easily combated without the help of human resources outside the villages. however, over the last decades, for various reasons, small subsistence family farming has declined, with the farmland to be gradually abandoned. As a result of this desertification, the shrub and herbaceous vegetation has grown and, as it is not cut, inevitably the fire burns it in summer and with it burns the forest. As a result of these enormous social and economic changes, the tree, largely spontaneous, i.e. uncultivated, which is being destroyed by forest fires in small and medium-sized areas, covers about 3 million hectares. All added, about 5 million hectares can be estimated to be the area that could be cultivated with forest in mainland Portugal if appropriate measures were taken. in this sense, in addition to the necessary measures to encourage sustainable forest and the organization of producers, the owners of these land — thousands of small owners, very small owners — must benefit from the support of the income of the common agricultural policy to compensate for the costs with cutting. It does not seem to us that the allocation of tax benefits solves the problem of the lack of income of these very small owners. The vast majority of these forest owners, due to their very small size, do not even have organized accounting, which is why they will be out of those benefits. Any measure aimed at tax benefits for the sector will benefit only the largest owners, those who have come to concentrate support and subsidies. Instead, income support that is significantly higher where the property is small and medium sized can contribute to solving fuel material management problems in almost all the territory, north of the Tejo River and in the Algarve Forest, where the fires are a problem. Because there is much greater spending on cutting the bush and eliminating the branches of the tree and because it is necessary to create a significant incentive for the owners of small and medium-sized properties to plant and take care of it. These small, very small, owners also have to gain in caring for their small parcels, because they are providing a service that is in the interests of society as a whole, a service that will have very positive effects on the economy, the environment and the planning of the territory. That is precisely the point of the draft resolution that we have tabled. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u102	Mr Mauricio Marques, from the PSD, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u103	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : To talk about forest is to talk about employment, to talk about exports, to talk about value added, to talk about a very positive contribution to our balance of current transactions. So I greet the CDS for bringing this topic to plenary. But talking about forest is also talking about profitability. As long as we do not have a profitable forest activity, we will continue to witness the increase in abandoned lands. Left alone, in addition to not having a social contribution, also bring enormous economic and environmental damage, because they contribute to the increase of burned areas, such as soils that are not well cultivated. It is therefore very important that this activity not only be profitable with the creation of the forest management account, but it can also be very important from a financial point of view. The return on investment is very long in most species, to improve forest diversity, which we all defend, very important for environmental issues and not only implies permanent investment in the forest as involves careful management. It is therefore important to create tax mechanisms and incentives that stimulate permanent investment in our forest. It is also important to improve the productivity of our species, particularly those that are already the most profitable. We are pleased to note that the current Government, contrary to the majority who support it, now recognizes this appreciation. We note that the draft resolution presented by the Left Block does not recognize the importance of the eucalyptus. The Government now recognizes this importance with the allocation of EUR 18 million of Community funds to improve the productivity of the eucalyptus. Comparing the eucalyptus to an invasive species is not knowing the forest, nor is it the national reality. The draft resolution of the Left Block is not only an attack on the forest, it is also a real attack on the thousands and thousands of small owners who have their only income in the small parcels of eucalyptus, which keeps them in a less-favoured territory. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u104	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr João Ramos.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Everyone will agree that forestry is the main element of ecosystem protection in the conservation of aquifers, in the fight against soil desertification and, for these reasons, an important element in the preservation of the rural world. Concordance with these truths has led to the establishment of unanimitys around forest legislation which began to be broken by the previous PSD / CDS government, when it decided to meet the requirements of major interests of the sector, in particular those of the paper pulp industry. The correspondence to the interests installed, without promoting changes in the right direction, is what the CDS continues to do with the project discussed today, this project that has already been voted upon by the Assembly of the Republic and rejected in the discussion of the State Budget for 2017, where the CDS presented exactly the same proposal that had already been submitted in the form of this bill. in its project, the CDS points out as important constraints of the forest the low profitability of forest farms. However, it points out as reasons for this problem either the size of ownership or the lack of "business guidance" of the owners. These reasons are fun maneuvers for the lack of answers to the problems, which follow the line of overvaluing the contribution of the abandoned areas or no known owner to forest fires. If the CDS proposal were approved, and as it itself acknowledges that the vast majority of owners do not have « business orientation », it would place the large forest properties and investments accessing the tax benefits of investments that may still amortize, compromising state revenues.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u106	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u107	It is still curious and demagogic that the same party that has barely taken over the pasta has withdrawn EUR 150 million from the forestry product is now so concerned with investment in the forest. The BE project, which proposes support to the forest of exotic species, with some exceptions, places as a necessity the existence of a minimum support, but nothing refers to the maximum limits of such support. in essence, nothing also refers to the main problem that compromises the profitability of forest activity. Although some isolated measures may be positive, which does not seem to be the case with the CDS proposals, what is needed is to do the essential thing. The appreciation of the forest must pass through forest diversification, by the valorization of species that can feed other industries beyond the pulp of paper, such as pine or sour, or by the attack on the serious phytosanitary problems that remain. For this purpose, more public investments are needed in an area where the financial return is 10, 30 or 40 years, depending on whether it is eucalyptus, pine or mounted. It is also essential to address the interests installed in the sector and to increase the very degraded prices of wood, in a row where the business is marked by the operation of companies with monopoly characteristics. Celluloses pay the eucalyptus in Portugal at half the price that is paid in Spain and the other woods are also quite devalued. It is the price at which the wood is paid to the producer who truly attacks the profitability of the farms. These were the problems that the PSD and the CDS in the government did not want to face. These are the problems that the PS Government cannot excuse if it really wants more and better forests in Portugal. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u108	For an intervention, Mr Francisco Rocha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u109	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since last October we have had the opportunity to almost daily speak, hear to speak, read opinions, issue opinions and discuss the Portuguese forest scene and its future. Therefore, the initiatives we are debating today in this House cannot be disengaged from the reform of the forest sector that this Government has taken as a priority task, and are about to culminate in the public debate. The broad set of measures included in this reform will not be the panacea for all evils, but it wants to be part of the responses to the problems that are appropriately identified when the Government Programme is drawn up, and will work very precisely on what it is already taking place, initiating a new cycle that promotes the forest extension and active management and initiates a process for the simplified identification of property, while increasing the supply of land to which it intends to invest in the agroforestry sector. That is, this reform, which we clearly support, assumes, without tibias, a holistic vision and an integrated perspective of everything that can compete for the success or failure of the Portuguese forest. It does not deal alone with the question of financial support or tax benefits for forest producers. thus, and taking into account the content of the diplomas we are debating today, we are obliged to ask which is the most valuable, what is the structural gain in dealing, alone, more financial support and tax benefits for this sector, when we continue not to know who is in a forest spot that is held, by more than 90% by private and rural communities. And now what can be added to these initiatives by addressing, in isolation, this issue of financial support and tax benefits, when we have a long way to go with the creation and promotion of forest management societies, in order to strengthen the productivity and profitability of forest assets and improve the planning of the territory, welcoming the organizational evolution of forest intervention areas? Oh, my God! Finally, we must ask ourselves whether they have not realized that the legislative package of forest reform already envisages and proposes a new and broad framework of tax incentives and exemptions for the forest sector, in the context of good forestry practices and forest fire protection, promoting the profitability of assets and making forestry more attractive. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We cannot and should not ignore reality. To realize that there is no ongoing forest reform is certainly not fair when we know that this reform aims to be involved, comprehensive and balanced and, cumulatively, to promote cohesion, rural development, economic growth and environmental sustainability in our country, wanting to contribute to our forest becoming diverse and lasting. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u110	Mr Matias also spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u111	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is no doubt that the theme of the forest is complex and requires a varied and extended approach. But for the PSD, the problem of the forest is summed up by a word that has an almost cabalistic value: eucalyptus, eucalyptus! All the miracle comes from the eucalyptus! « The eucalyptus gives wealth! The lipto euca promotes ordination! The eucalyptus is the future! The eucalyptus brings us paradise! » — For PSD, the eucalyptus is everything, the eucalyptus is the forest! For us, it's not like that! The eucalyptus is indeed a problem! Extensive cultivation and eucalyptus monoculture are a problem that needs to be solved. We therefore favour the native forest, because there are already eucalyptuses coming! We therefore favour the support of the small owners, because the others have already received many subsidies and many support! This is the meaning of our draft resolution and this is the meaning that unfortunately the PSD will never understand. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u112	Also for a second intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u113	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I just wanted to say, with regard to the funds that were allegedly withdrawn from the forests in the PRODER, that this happened only because the PRODER was badly designed, the forests did not take advantage of and, if they were not diverted to other types of support in the sector, the funds would be returned to Brussels. I would also like to say that when we talk about the lack of business guidance of forest producers, we just want to say that their decisions are not made on the basis of profit. The forest, sirs. Members, as you all know, in the context of small property, have always been regarded as the family's'mealer'. You're there to, if it takes, one day, cut to marry a child or build a house. For that reason, these people need to be helped. unlike the PCP and the Left Block, which have prejudiced the large owners, the CDS does not prejudice the small ones, so our bill includes a possibility of deduction to collection for small producers who do not have organized accounting, so that these, which are the vast majority of forest owners, can also enjoy this benefit. Mr Francisco Rocha asks us what benefit it will be to deal with this issue of financial support and tax benefits in isolation, but I told you, Mr President, that this was just another contribution, and it is not exhausted from the package of forest reform that the Government has submitted. In fact, Mr President, what you have just said here is clear, with regard to what is going to be done, what are studies, studies and more studies, without ever getting to the de facto paths, to support forest producers, because until the establishment of forest management societies is completed and the benefits are, in particular, to forest producers, to spend a lot of time, when this measure could already have benefited many forest producers. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u114	Mrs. Members, we have reached the end of the general assessment of draft law No 322 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) together with draft resolution No 609 / XIII ( 2. ( a). We move on to the next point in our order of business, which is from the assessment of Decree-Law No 57 / 2016 of 29 August, which approves a doctoral recruitment regime designed to stimulate scientific and technological employment in all areas of knowledge[ Parliamentary assessments n. 25 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PCP ) and 23 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( BE ) ), together generally with Bill No 368 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The first amendment of Decree-Law No 57 / 2016 of 29 August giving greater justice and correcting incentives to agents covered by Article 23. o ( Transitional Standard ) ( CDS-PP ). You have the floor, first of all, Mrs Ana Mesquita.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP welcomes the scientific research scholarships, including the doctors and their representatives, here present in the galleries of the Assembly of the Republic. We welcome your persistence, all the struggle that has developed in defence of your rights, for the end of precariousness, for the valorization of scientific work. Subsequent governments have treated scientific research fellows as cheap and precarious labour, highly qualified, stealing their fundamental rights in work and in life, keeping the doors of access to scientific research careers closed and taking advantage of to meet permanent needs. It's exploitation we're talking about, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. And, in the case of doctoral fellows, a refined exploitation of people who dedicate years, decades of their lives to obtain a degree of doctorate, who follow for postdoctoral, who achieve it and are still subject to contributing to the National Scientific and Technological System (SCTN ) through a scholarship. This can't be like that! If it was urgent to take steps to put an end to this wrong and unfair situation, we cannot accept that the next step is to change a highly precarious system of scholarships for a succession of precarious contracts without a clear end. We therefore propose to amend the integration of doctors into the scientific research career, into their category, in accordance with the Career Statute, at the end of the contractual deadlines provided for as a maximum limit. Another point that we have to point out is that it makes no sense to construct a kind of parallel regime or career, particularly when many of the aspects covered by this Decree-Law already find a response or reference in the Scientific Research Career Statute. That is why we believe that, in terms of remuneration levels, reference should be made to the Career Statute, ensuring that there is no loss of monthly net income. And let no one claim that, with this Decree-Law, as it is, at the end of the day, the doctors will even receive a few more wells, 14 months of salary, and that they will be able to automatically access discounts and social benefits. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is rights! They are rights that should have long been recognised and put into practice. They're not a blessing!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u116	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u117	to those who claim the increase in charges to limit or block the use of contracts, as some institutions have referred, due to their chronic underfunding—and this is also well remembered—, we counter the proposal of the CFP, which establishes that the charges resulting from the contract are borne, until the end of the term of the contract, including renewals, by the Science and Technology Foundation ( CTF ). The situation of precariousness in scientific work is penalizing and creates instability for all: for researchers, for institutions, for scientific development, for our country. There are solutions for these workers, Mr Minister, but the current Decree-Law does not respond to the extent of what is fair, worthy and necessary. You need to go further! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u118	For an intervention, Mr Luís Monteiro now gives the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to take this opportunity to welcome the arrival of dozens of fellows, trade union organizations and various associations, organizations who have never given up fighting in the name of the dignity of science, researchers and the right to knowledge. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the diploma published does not meet the objectives set out. in fact, what the diploma stipulates is the exchange of the precariousness of the scholarships by more precariousness, not creating any horizon of stability to researchers, and may even constitute an open door for easier layoffs. The term-resolute contract for public administration bodies, or uncertain term, for bodies covered by private law, for a period of three years, renewables up to a maximum of six years, does not promote the necessary stability and dignity of researchers. It leaves out of the scientific employment regime all those and all those without the degree of doctor, such as many of the science and technology management pockets. The instability of the CTF tables, which set out those covered by this diploma, is proof that amendments are necessary in this form. Since December, the tables have been changed four times. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, since December four times the grids of the FCT have been modified! It is true that, with employment contracts, researchers have some of the labour and social rights that are denied to them today, but this cannot be achieved either with such a precarious framework or with such long-term contracts. The agreement between the Left Block and the Government on combating precariousness is an important step. This important step seems to me that the Ministry of Science, Technology and Higher Education did not want to give. But it still goes in time, because the Left Block creates this possibility with this parliamentary appreciation. It is therefore important to demystify some of the arguments that have been used to defend the measure. Firstly, the argument that this diploma is an intermediate level in the passage to the career of scientific research is false, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. What the diploma guarantees, only and simply, is a term contract, without any guarantee of stability on the horizon. to the pockets, they are denied a prospect of the future, because it does not guarantee the possibility of entering the career of scientific research. Secondly, the argument that the stockholders will be earning more is also false, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. It refers to the Decree-Law that the remuneration to be assigned under the terms of the contracts is corresponding to level 28 of the TRU (Single Remuneration Table). This can even mean a very significant decrease in the incomes of the present pockets, which is entirely unacceptable. It is a step backwards to the FCT Researcher programme, which also had its problems, but which, in fact, guarantees a level of income equal to that which is in the career of scientific research. We are therefore not in the face of an income replacement logic, nor do we have any wage increases, but we are discussing how much, in the name of a precarious contract, each of these pockets loses at the end of the month. If we really want to solve the problem of precariousness and change the paradigm of research in Portugal, we must have the courage to change what creates even more entropy into the system. Guaranteeing that no one stays out of combat on precariousness is the goal of the Left Block. The Assembly of the Republic today has the responsibility to correct the mistakes that the Ministry has made. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u120	I'm asking the ladies. Members who intend to speak in this debate but who have not yet entered the favour of doing so. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, from the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, now has the floor to present Bill No 368 / XIII ( 2a ).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government presented Decree-Law No 57 / 2016 as a solution for the precariousness recognized in the National Scientific and Technological System. It is this Decree-Law — its intention, applicability and effect — that is in Parliament today. Mr. Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education has stated regarding this regime that: firstly, it resulted in a process of broad public and institutional discussion; secondly, it assumes the role of the contract as the normal link to post-doctoral scientific work; and thirdly, it will contribute to the continued renewal of the scientific community. First, the recent discussion in the academic and scientific environment that converges, today, four months after the publication of the Decree-Law, in this parliamentary assessment, has shown that, although there may have been a wide public and institutional discussion, it did not result in a desirable consensus on the subject. On the contrary, the universities, the pockets and the unions — which I welcome from here — have been extremely critical, and we have been heard in the Committee on Education and Science in the last two days. And, if there is consensus, it is almost everything outside the letter of the Decree-Law. Moreover, Decree-Law contains a number of contradictions. For example, the provision on remuneration levels states that a three-year experience corresponds to 54 maturity, but the transitional standard makes it equal to 28 to the same three years, which has a significant impact on candidates' salaries. Secondly, if the intention is that employment contracts become the normal method of bonding for doctors, then the provisions of the Decree-Law fall short of this design and the six-year contractual design well exemplifies this limitation. It is true that it is possible to open competitions for this purpose, but this alone has no novelty. The greatest relevance is the transitional standard which, when it lasts for a year, does not give the same opportunity to all the pockets that are in the system today. It turns out that the intended effect of placing the contract on the stock exchange — which in itself is positive — has a lower scope than the debt. It is therefore important to extend the transitional period for three years, guaranteed the correct interpretation of the requirements by the FCT, which tells us is not the case. Finally, and thirdly, the Decree-Law establishes the obligation to open competitions for the hiring of doctors for the performance of functions performed by pockets. It should be noted that the objective of the guaranteed linkage of the pockets to the system is not formulated. Therefore, when opening the competitive procedure, the aim of the institution will be to hire the most qualified element to perform the function, whether it is the pocket that is already in the institution, or another candidate. But in the transitional standard, the financial incentive is defined to contract the purse, because the FCT pays its cost, which can condition the final result of the competition and thus pervert the objective defined in the Decree-Law, as well as limit the so-called continuous renewal of the scientific community. It seems to us that we need to correct this situation by creating a neutralizing incentive, provided that it has guarded the budgetary impact on the FCT. In conclusion, this Decree-Law has the virtue of converting some scholarships into contracts, but it has several inconsistencies and limitations which, in our understanding, can be improved in committee, so that the effects are effectively beneficial to the system as a whole. For this reason, the CDS-PP presented proposals, committing itself to the search for solutions. But we do this in an attitude of responsibility, which means not ignoring the budgetary restrictions of the institutions, so that false expectations are not created on an issue that has enormous implications for the lives of the most qualified people. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u122	There are no more entries from the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. As the Bureau records the inclusion, for an intervention, of the Minister of Science, Technology and Higher Education, Manuel Heitor, please use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To discuss in this House the issues of scientific employment is certainly a great opportunity. This is in fact one of the central combats of government policy and in particular of the governmental action of science and higher education. The design that we have given to knowledge and scientific development certainly goes by valuing scientific knowledge—and with it scientific employment—and by correcting mistakes from the past. We perceive a society with more knowledge, where scientific employment is, in fact, a way of bringing scientific activity closer to the lives of Portuguese people and to the activities of our companies and our social institutions, health and any area of knowledge. Science today is in all activities. And that is what is meant by scientific employment: the employment of doctors with scientific activity in a way that respects working conditions. The Decree-Law, which is today in this House, in appreciation, and I am grateful once again for having given me the opportunity to come here — was the result of a public debate and, above all, an international comparison effort, in fact giving Portugal a renewed framework for employment in the European context. It is sufficient to compare the situations made public by the Science Europe for Europe organisation. In any case, if there is any doubt, they must be clarified. in the sense of responsibility for making science consensual in Portuguese society, of course we agree to clarify some aspects of employment. In view of the various proposals put forward, it seems to me that it is particularly important to identify and clarify three aspects: first, access to careers — that is the objective of this Decree-Law. The initial recruitment of young doctorate researchers should give access to careers. If there is any doubt of this intention, it should be perfectly clear that, at the end of the six years of contract, the invitation to tender must be opened. Of course, scientific activity has to be governed by criteria of demand and scientific evaluation, and it cannot be the contracts imposed, but of course this aspect must be clarified. Second, the transitional regime. If there are doubts about the period of interruption or not of the three years of scholarships, this should be clearly clarified in the framework of the Decree-Law, so that there are no doubts whatsoever. Thirdly, there is a need to decouple, clearly, the conditions of scientific employment of precariousness in central government organisations. That is why, of course, we are open to clarifying the document. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u124	I now give the floor to Mr Porfirio Silva of the PS Parliamentary Group for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : The parliamentary review of Decree-Law No 57 / 2016 is an opportunity for us to affirm and strengthen the strategy to combat the precariousness of scientific employment. This diploma serves a paradigm shift: combating the abuse of the pocket figure and entering into contracts with scientific workers. We have ceased to have doctors as false pockets and we have contracts, with the social and labour rights inherent, without any loss of annual net income, even for those who start at the lowest rate of pay—and not all begin at least and all can progress. It should be stressed that this diploma is also a tool against the eternalization of future recruitment situations. If any investigator was six years old with one of the contracts provided for in this diploma, this work relationship can only continue through a career access contest with prospects for progress. Even the transitional standard is an important element in correcting accumulated injustices, because it obliges the opening of contracts for contracts that have served for more than three years, followed or interpolated. Specific situation is that of the in-service science and technology management pockets, in particular in the FCT. Let us be clear: this is an unacceptable situation, of purely precariousness in the Public Administration, which will have to be corrected beyond this diploma. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has introduced amendments on these and other issues. We will also work with the proposals of other parties to clarify the legislator's intention and improve what is already such an important diploma. No one, no union, no association, no group of pursers proposed the cessation of the validity of the Decree-Law. This highlights an essential point: the diploma is an important step in the right direction, no investigator would get better without this diploma. Obviously, this is not the way of those who advocate the return to the elite model of the FCT researcher...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u126	Elitist? Oh, my God! Elitist model? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u127	... that better rewards those who win the marathon with obstacles, but it's only for a few. We do not accept a small island of supposed excellence, surrounded by precariousness on all sides. We are not going there and there will not be anyone who wants to fight precariousness and dignify scientific employment, as the government wants and as the PS wants. We therefore support the ongoing strategy, much broader than this diploma, which goes through, inter alia, new competition rules for research projects and new rules for the evaluation of R & D units (innovation and development). As is the case with the legislative contracts concluded by the government and the universities and politicians, which have created a stability horizon that has enabled the institutions to undertake to hire more 3000 teachers and researchers by 2019, always rewarding the institutional strategies based on the dignity of scientific employment and its sustainability. This won't be to do everything in a year. This won't be performing miracles. But this is turning the page of the institutional race with which the previous government threatened the future of science in Portugal. This is to fight precariousness, because precariousness is bad for people and it is bad for institutions. This is honoring our tablets... [[Mr Duarte Filipe Marques's laughs.]] ... I say, commitments and do what must be done. Do not confuse, Mr, because we want to honour our commitments and do not deviate from that, even if some Members play with such a serious matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u128	Mrs Nilza de Sena, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister : I begin by congratulating the honourable Members. Researchers present in the galleries and say that today's debate well illustrates what we have come to denounce on several occasions. This government, this majority, promises what it can't fulfill, announces what it can't give and what you see here is that you sold cat for hare!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u130	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u131	It is a majority that illustrates, creates expectations, fills speeches with sympathetic intentions, but then they are admired with their own actions. It's not worth the Left Block and the PCP pretend they're opposition and now they're inside, now they're out of coalition. They're all in the picture, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] After all, the decision of the guardianship on the new regime of doctoral recruitment to stimulate scientific employment does not meet the objectives set out, because the change of precariousness is more precarious, says the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u132	All right! That's the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u133	It should be noted that there is even a step backwards from the previous Government's research programme FCT. Frankly, we don't realize the horror of the Left Block and the PCP. Minister Manuel Heitor has been very clear over this time: he wants a low-wage policy for researchers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u134	And the PSD did what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u135	It is a policy of precariousness which removes conditions, including remuneration, which the previous Government had given. There was almost 40% loss of income! It's the miserable politics of all the left! The PSD does not review this diploma, because it argues that we should walk to guarantee more social rights for researchers...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u136	It's funny!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u137	... following an evolutionary line, such as the one we had, in which the Researcher FCT programme was already improving the Science Programme 2008, which could now be revised in an "incrementalist" way and not with the loss of talent, with endogamy, with discrimination between doctors abroad and doctors in the country, with discontinuity in the career and undermining higher education institutions. I recall that—I don't know if you are comfortable— in 2016, they opened zero bags! I'll repeat: in 2016, they opened zero bags! They approved zero bags!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u138	Is that a lie? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u139	But you find this acceptable! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a bad diploma! It doesn't add, subtract... there are delays and more delays that are scandalous. It was not the PSD that announced the end of the precariousness, that you announced it, that was the government. Therefore, the PSD, in this matter, after a marathon of hearings, announces that it will present a legislative initiative itself that meets the expectations of researchers and institutions. [[PSD applause.]] [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u140	Zero bags!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u141	Even in the time available, you have the floor Mr. Luís Monteiro, of the Block of Left...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u142	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u143	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u144	Mr President, if I may, it is established practice that the parties that schedule initiatives close the debate. If no more bench or government wants to intervene...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u145	That's the case, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u146	So it will be.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u147	It is only expected that the Government will make its final intervention in the closure, since it is a decree-law that is being assessed.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u148	Mr President, if I may, that is not the practice in place. This is a debate scheduled by political parties, with initiatives and proposals for amendments. The government intervenes whenever it wants to, but closure is not a prerogative of the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u149	We shall not establish a complaint about this, Mr President. Mr. João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u150	Mr President, it seems to me that, in this respect, the CFP has a high-quality vote because it was the one who made the agenda. for our part, we have the right to close the debate, because we were the party that allocated the initiative. We see the advantage that the Minister can still answer a few questions at the end. So if the government does not want to close the debate, it will have to be the CFP to do so. Moreover, other banks which still have time available, including the Left Block, the CDS and the PSD, are welcome to register before the CFP and the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u151	Mr. João Oliveira, regarding the precedence of your speeches, there is no doubt. The Bureau no longer records any requests for registration, other than from the Left Block and the CFP parliamentary groups, and the availability of the honourable Member for the Government to end the debate. Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares, do you hold your position? [[Pause.]] in this case, I would ask the Government to use the floor and then we will clarify this matter in its own right.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u152	Mr President, if I may, my point was to answer your question yes to whether we accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u153	Thank you very much for the spirit of cooperation, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares. Mr Luís Monteiro, Member of the Left Bloc, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u154	Mr President, I would like to answer a few questions that have been raised. Mr Porfirio Silva, of the PS, a paradigm shift was to combat the logic of making careers parallel to the career of scientific research. The diploma does so only if the proposed amendment to the Left Block is actually approved, which ensures that, at the end of the six years, there is an effective entry into the career. Not doing that, we are legitimizing a career parallel to scientific research. With regard to PSD, it seems that you have now agreed to this problem, but still well!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u155	You've woken up now! But they came in time!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u156	It is good that you have initiatives, but you can do it now! It goes down to the committee, as it is regimentally, and we can discuss the amendments to solve this problem. We will therefore be available for this debate. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u157	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u158	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u159	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u160	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u161	Mr President, in order not to take too long, nor so little to do these last minutes any kind of incident, I would like to clarify this issue once and for all. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares of the Left Block was, well, fulfilling the agreement made at the Conference of Leaders, but politely, he agreed to speak before the Government, when it would indeed be the Left Block and follow the CFP to close the debate. Therefore, it is in your right, we have nothing to oppose—it was most lacking! — but this does not stand as a precedent that can be invoked in the future. The rule is that the party that agendas a debate is the one that closes it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u162	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u163	I'd like this to be clear. There is no problem on our part about this, because it is a provision of the Left Block which you have intended to do so, but which does not serve for the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u164	All right, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u165	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u166	I reckon it is also for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u167	Yes, Mr. President. It's for the same purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u168	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u169	Mr President, I just wanted to underline what Mr Nuno Magalhães just said. It is consensual at the Conference of Leaders that the agenda of the debates has the right to close, even if the Government may be present. If the proponents so allow, I believe that there is no discussion around this matter, but it is clear that this does not create precedent and that the consensus of the Conference of Leaders is valid for the future and for all debates.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u170	That was already clear in the intervention we made recently.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u171	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be a time to express your positions again in the Conference of Leaders, but the issue is now resolved. Mrs Ana Mesquita of the PCP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u172	Mr President, Minister for Science, Technology and Higher Education: at the end of this debate scheduled at the initiative of the CFP, more than clarifying the application of the current text it was really necessary to put the law, of course, as water, which is not there. This is the challenge we have left. For example, if career access is a clear objective of this degree, then this is explicitly placed in the law. That's what we have to say. Mr Minister, an issue that has also been claimed is that this diploma takes into account the international framework. There are also several cases in which there is stability in the hiring of doctors within the international framework. So we have to look at that. With regard to the sudden interest of the PSD and the CDS as well, we cannot make clear what were the years of attack of the right-wing policy on science and higher education.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u173	Zero bags in 2016!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u174	Therefore, we cannot fail to remember this attack, nor can we stop asking them to come, now to vote according to the improved living, working and income conditions of these doctors. [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] Come on this side! We never leave here, unlike other parties. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u175	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Minister for Science, Technology and Higher Education.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u176	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are dealing with a very concrete and serious matter, because it affects people and families. Therefore, more than having a debate on strategies, we must remember that between 2012 and 2015 the number of active contracts in Portugal decreased by 40 %. They were about 1084, in 2012, and when we took possession they were about 660. That is the question we are dealing with, we are trying to dignify scientific employment in Portugal. We are not creating parallel careers — the diploma does not create them — on the contrary, we are giving access to careers by creating a decent framework in Portugal in the European context. That is what this diploma does, and that is what we are prepared to clarify, of course, in a revised version of the diploma. If there are any questions, clarify yourself. Access to careers, the transitional regime, the need to decouple the precarious solution for central government organisations is made clear. This diploma is, above all, in favour of scientific employment, Portugal and the Portuguese with more science. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u177	He didn't answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u178	Mrs. Members, the joint assessment of Decree-Law No 57 / 2016 of 29 August is closed[ Parliamentary assessments 25 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PCP ) and 23 / XIII ( 2. a ) ( BE ), and draft law No 368 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). in the legislative framework of the parliamentary review of legislative decrees, they entered the Bureau, for discussion in the specialty, proposals for amendment to Decree-Law No 57 / 2016, submitted by BE, the PCP, the PS and the CDS-PP, which are down to 8. the Commission. We then move on to point four of our agenda, which consists in the general discussion of the projects of lein.o 21 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Consecrates the Third Carnival Fair as a mandatory national holiday ( Amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February, as amended by Laws No 105 / 2009 of 14 September, 53 / 2011 of 14 October, 23 / 2012 of 25 June, 47 / 2012 of 29 August, 69 / 2013 of 30 August, 27 / 2014 of 8 May, and 55 / 2014 of 25 August ) ( Os Verdes) and 369 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amend the Labour Code, establishing the Third Carnival Fair as a compulsory national holiday ( NAP ), together with draft resolution No 604 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Negotiation into social consultation of guiding principles for specific legislation in order to define which holidays are required to be observed on Monday of the following week ( PSD ). To present the Green Bill, Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u179	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today, the Greens are presenting a legislative initiative to consecrate the Third Carnival Fair as a mandatory holiday. The first note that the Greens consider it important for this discussion is to say that we do not propose a new holiday. That's not what you're trying to do. On Tuesday, Carnival is already a holiday — certainly, Mr. Members are aware of this. It's optional, but it's a holiday. [[Representatives of PSD and CDS-PP Members.]] Mr President, perhaps it would be better to distribute a Labour Code to the Members. Members of the PSD and the CDS who, by the way, have no knowledge. Get them to read the projects! As is optional, it is in the Government's hands to decide whether or not to consider the Third Carnival Fair as a holiday, which is often done only a few days in advance. Therefore, what is intended is not to invent a holiday, but only to change the legal nature of Carnival's holiday. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] I don't know if you guys are. Members know what we are talking about when we talk about the legal nature. Maybe you don't know! That's too bad! But Carnival is still far away! [[The CDS-PP's laughs.]] We believe that it is enough to play Carnival, which must be understood as a serious thing. We all know that Carnival is internalized by the Portuguese as a holiday, which has taken people—maybe, even many of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen — to plan for a long time with the family on that day, so often even with reservations of early stays that need to be guarded. The school calendar is organized on the basis of the Carnival holiday. The GNR even prepares the Carnival Operation in advance. Municipalities like Torres Vedras, Loulé, Sesimbra, Ovar, Canas de Signorim, Alcobaza or Mealhada invest remarkable funds to dynamize Carnival festivities. What we think is that it makes no sense for these authorities to invest so much in Carnival and to stand tight and heartily in their hands until the Carnival evenings, waiting for the government to decide whether or not it is on holiday. That is, the authorities are waiting for the government to give the Amen to a party that is even pagan! Therefore, what is intended is to assign security and security to local authorities, but also to tourist operators, who bet on Carnival as a way to dynamize local economies. What The Greens want is not to disturb the economic and social dynamics that are created in these festivities at local level, but also to avoid caricature and singular situations, yes, a true Carnival, such as those we attended with the PSD Government and the CDS, in which one part of the country was working and the other part was stopped. And the part that worked made it half gas.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u180	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u181	And why did he do it in half gas? Because the TTCs were closed, the banks did not get to open, the public transports had an offer equivalent to a holiday and much of the municipalities, including those of the PSD and the CDS, gave a point tolerance on that day. So, we think it's time to end this joke and consider Carnival Tuesday as a mandatory holiday. To keep an idea of the importance of Carnival for local economies, I leave only one data: only the Carnival of Torres Vedras generates a return of about 10 million euros in these festivities. These figures cannot be minimized, especially at a time when our economy needs to be dynamized. So instead of screaming and smiling, it would be good to see this with good sense. [[Applause from The Greens, the BE and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u182	To present the draft law of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u183	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The NAP proposes the consecration of the Third Carnival Fair as a mandatory holiday. I am currently considering labour legislation as an optional holiday, reality shows that this day is often seen as a mandatory holiday, which is why a very significant part of private sector companies adds this day to the list of compulsory holidays and the government has granted, except rare exceptions, point tolerance, so we believe that this measure aims to institutionalize what is already in practice. More: the school calendar is also organized on the assumption that the Third Carnival Fair is considered holiday, which leads many families to take advantage of this date to schedule holidays. at a time when parents are subjected to a hallucinating rhythm, working all day, with increasing professional requirements, leaving little time and availability to be with their children, we consider it important to encourage and create effective conditions that allow the increase of the number of periods of leisure in the family, which this measure will also allow. Moreover, the dominant perception that high levels of productivity can only be achieved with high hourly loads has been scientifically rejected. It is a priority, accepted by all, that we need more time for the family and to live, not merely survive, but this is a vision that has not yet found a way to harmonize with a model of society kidnapped by the markets, by the economic vision of work and by the mercantilization of time. In addition to all the facts presented, it is a festive season of great importance in the country, and they are wholesome, non-violent and community cultural celebrations and manifestations, such as Carnival, which must rise, unlike other anachronic traditions, sick and violent that have nothing positive, as is the case with the tourdas. in this sense and for various reasons, in particular by strengthening family time and positive impacts on local economies, we propose that the Third Carnival Fair be included in the list of compulsory holidays. In short, in this society more and more abundant in goods and services, what is scarce is what we need most: time to live.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u184	To present the PSD draft resolution, Mr Pedro Roque has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u185	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With this initiative the PSD is proposing to the Assembly of the Republic that it recommends to the Government to promote effective negotiation within the Standing Committee on Social Dialogue in order to reach an agreement establishing the guiding principles to define in specific legislation which holidays to be observed on the following Monday of the week as set out in Article 234 ( 3 ). the Labour Code. A holiday is a special year day when, by law, normal work activities are suspended to remember an event or tradition of historical, cultural or religious relevance. However, if this is the traditional intention of holidays, in modern Western societies they serve predominantly an important recreational and leisure function. We can say without fear of error that for people, in practice, most holidays do not deduct themselves from any normal weekend, in order to provide another healthy work break for family life, culture, sport, tourism or leisure in general. It is not a question of jeopardising the stability of the number of compulsory holidays in Portugal. However, the question of the impact of work breaks on economic competitiveness should be of particular interest to us. This was also the intention of the legislator when, in 2009, it clearly defined Article 234. , paragraph 3 of the Labour Code, which « by specific legislation, certain compulsory holidays may be observed on Monday of the following week ».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u186	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u187	It is important that political, economic and social actors take into account the effects on the competitiveness of companies in terms of productivity breaks that occur when holidays coincide with Tuesday, Wednesday or Thursday. There are international examples where the introduction of such a measure makes it possible for companies and workers and their families to gain. It is considered that the implementation of this practice will provide a fair balance and virtuous result with regard to the correct annual planning of the business agenda and breaks, as well as promoting and ensuring the interests of the parties through productivity gains, on the one hand, and the aggregation of leisure days, on the other. Thus, there will be interruptions in production and economic activity and gains in the efficiency of companies, also allowing more continuous free time on the worker's side with gains in their leisure activities. On behalf of the promotion of social dialogue, it will be necessary to refer this matter to the Standing Committee on Social Dialogue so that, within the framework of the negotiation of an agreement, it can be accurately and accurately defined on this matter, taking into account the interests of the parties, on the one hand, and economic growth on the other. We already know, however, that the PS announces that it will vote against this initiative. It is your prerogative, of course. However, the following should be mentioned to the PS : this initiative results from a law which dates back to 2009, in which the Government was a socialist. In May 2016, it was the government that led the issue to social consultation, but left it forgotten at the bottom of a drawer. The Socialist Party is therefore called for coherence in this matter. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u188	For an intervention, Mr José Moura Soeiro, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u189	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Bloc de Left, I would like to say that Carnival is obviously a tradition—a tradition of freedom and satire—that also exists in Portugal, very present in some municipalities and that it is configured that, for example, it is included in the school calendar, transport on that day, as a general rule, does not work. Therefore, there is this tradition, as it was tradition also, until 2012 the government, by order, to recognize its existence. We therefore follow the initiatives of the NAP and the Greens to devote the Carnival holiday to the Labour Code, so that people do not have to wait until the last hour to know whether the government will or will not recognize that day by order and not have the situation loaded, as has already been said, of the country being working and another means of enjoying a holiday, still above all putting concrete difficulties on those who work in terms of transport, for example. We therefore believe that recognizing this holiday is a respect for the Carnival tradition and that it is to allow workers to have more time to live in a country in which they work for too many hours. About the PSD project, I want to make three comments, which are actually also three questions. The first is this: what is the obsessive involvement of PSD with bridges? What is it? Oh, my God! Bridges are good. Bridges are neither an offer from the State nor employers. A bridge worker enjoys a holiday of his to enjoy that bridge. In fact, vacations that are a right of you and an irrevocable right. Therefore, one does not understand the problem of PSD with bridges. Secondly, the PSD proposes to change holidays to Monday. Why? Which ones? this year, 2017, April 25 is silent on Tuesday. You will certainly not be suggesting that you enjoy April 25 on April 24 because it is a Monday. I imagine they will not propose that the Holy Friday be enjoyed on Holy Monday, or that Easter Sunday be the Easter Monday! None of this makes sense and you don't realize what holidays you want to change. Thirdly, the anecdotic part of the PSD project that is discussed today: the PSD says, in its project, that it wants the subject to be discussed in social consultation because it values it very much. Does social consultation value much? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, no comment. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u190	Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor for an intervention by the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we discuss two bills, one of The Greens and the other of the NAP, to amend the Labour Code by consecrating Carnival as a mandatory national holiday. Carnival is an important tradition in various country councils and a social, cultural and economic reality with its relevance. This is how it is in municipalities like Mealhada, Estarreja, Ovar, Torres Vedras, also in Madeira, for example— at several points in the country. The truth is that Carnival has always celebrated itself within the current legal framework, which is sufficient. Sometimes he celebrated more, others less. It is true that in exceptional, exceptional and temporary times it was suspended, as well as some holidays. [[Protests by the Member of the PCP Rita Rato and the Member of The Greens José Luís Ferreira.]] It is no longer so and we know that this is a time when it may be good for us to have some stability and predictability for families and businesses. In fact, when we talk about stability, it is even a little ironic to look at the Greens project because I don't know what happened, but there are three holidays that disappear: October 5, November 1 and December 1.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u192	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u193	Were they wrong? Have you forgotten these holidays? To consecrate Carnival eliminate three holidays? Oh, my God! What a mess! [[Protests by The Greens Member José Luís Ferreira.]] Finally, perhaps, the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is ‘Carnaval, no one leads to evil’! It's bullshit!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u194	This is a CDS anecdote!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u195	You guys take three holidays and the anecdotes are ours? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u196	For the CDS this is a matter that does not need to be amended at this time. We have had the replacement of holidays that had been suspended and we are therefore at a time of some stability in this matter. Any change in relation to holidays should be the subject of social consultation, of conversation with the social partners, with the Church — even when we speak on religious holidays it should also be taken into account. Looking at the PSD proposal, which, as I said, pays attention to social consultation, although there is all the advantage of studying other solutions for holidays at the moment—and it is a trial of opportunity—for the CDS, the fundamental thing is that companies, workers and families have stability and predictability. That is what is needed at this time in relation to holidays. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u197	For an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like, on behalf of the CFP, to welcome the Greens for the scheduling of this debate. This is not the first time that we have a debate in the Assembly of the Republic on the importance of recognition as a compulsory holiday for the Third Carnival Fair. I would like to remind you of the discussion that we made during the amendments to the Labour Code, promoted by the PSD and the CDS, which took four holidays and three days' vacations and which meant a week's work on the table for employers by the workers. So now hearing the CDS talk about predictability seems normal to us. It is even predictable that the parties that cut and stole holidays and leisure times,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u199	They stole what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u200	Three holidays are they were stolen by The Greens!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u201	...come now to say that they are against the recognition of holidays. This also seems very predictable on the part of PSD and CDS. And I'll say more, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: as in these times what is missing from the PSD is consistency, although I have presented this proposal, because at least we will know what we are counting on. Mr. President and Mr. Members, the recognition of the Third Carnival Fair as a mandatory holiday is of fundamental justice and of very significant importance to the communities in which this celebration has very important popular and historical roots, but also to others, where it is important to ensure a framework of universality in the recognition of this right. from the PCP side, of course we follow this objective, and therefore we will be voting in favour of this bill, of the recognition of the Third Carnival Fair as a mandatory holiday. What is more, because it is still curious that the PSD proposal comes to propose a recommendation when it could present this matter through a bill, but it is up to the PSD to decide. It is interesting to see how the PSD devotes all the creativity it has to prevent leisure time to workers—it is impressive! How do we guarantee leisure time and rest time in the 21st century? It is still understood by the PSD and the CDS — and I hope not by the PS, because otherwise I will not follow it — as a problem? Oh, my God! Mrs. Members, past more than 130 years of the first 1. the May one, continues a great day the struggle for working hours and leisure and rest times. And what remains to be impressive is that, after 130 years, this is still one of the fundamental issues on the agenda. from the PCP, we will continue to fight for this: for leisure and working time with rights. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u202	For an intervention, Mr Luís Soares of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, I would like to point out that the proposals brought here by the PAN and by the Greens are not new proposals, nor is the Socialist Party's position on this subject new. It is not new and today, contrary to what happens to other parties, of course we will keep it. We consider this to be an important holiday, since there are councils in our country that give it a different relevance from others, and we also consider that confirmation of point tolerance, as a measure that the Government can determine, that the public administration at the local level can determine and that the companies themselves can determine, is also sufficient to value this holiday. This proposal, this compromise was not a compromise of the Socialist Party. On the other hand, as far as holidays are concerned, the Socialist Party has already done what it is competing for, has already put into practice what was its commitment, recovering four holidays that the PSD had withdrawn from the Portuguese. Regarding the PSD proposal, I wanted to say that we welcome the initial recitals of who here recovers the philosophical evocation of holidays as moments to celebrate historical dates. This was not the case with 5 October, it was not the case with 1 October. December and it was not like that with religious holidays. This philosophical evocation of holidays should merit our greeting. But I mean, in addition to these considerations, there is the same ideological prejudice. What Mr Pedro Roque here has brought us is the proposal to eliminate the bridges. And that has an ideological prejudice because you understand that holidays and bridges break productivity. They say eliminating can have a positive impact on the economy. They say holidays are a cost. I want to see if we still have the PSD defending the end of the weekend, defending the end of the holiday, or defending the end of the basic rights of workers! [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] It is that this pilgrimage idea that working longer corresponds to producing more is a dangerous and wrong idea. That is why we are very strange, Mr President, in relation to the proposal that we are being brought here. Strangerness, first of all, by way of form, because the honourable Member could have chosen another form than a draft resolution. How did you guys do that? Members would like this House to approve a recommendation to the Government when you mentioned, and very well, what was the Government, through the Minister of Labour, that gave the start in the discussion of this matter? Oh, my God! How do you want to be recommended to the government, if it is the government that is in the leadership of the discussion on this issue? Oh, my God! But it is also strange about the substantive issue, Mr President. It is that I do not know what was the substantial difference in the PSD organic between 2012 and 2016 that also allowed to cause a substantial change in its political thinking. It is that in 2012 the PSD did not only advocate the elimination of bridges as in the social agreement which it promoted and signed, it said and specifically favoured the existence of these bridges, giving employers the possibility of closing the company and, in this case, having workers the obligation to enjoy a holiday. Therefore, Mr. Member, it is necessary to understand what has changed between 2012 and 2016,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u204	It really changed a lot!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u205	...or understand if it's only Mr. Deputies who defends the removal of bridges.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u206	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u207	I shall conclude, Mr President. We understand very well the PSD strategy. The PSD strategy is the strategy of someone who has abandoned their identity, has abandoned the interests of voters and only wants to cause conflict in social consultation. But I want to tell you, Mr President, that the Socialist Party can do well with this. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u208	in the time available, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor of the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u209	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After hearing this PS intervention, it is clear that the PS will not follow the Greens initiative. And what we have to say is that we regret that we are wasting an opportunity to regain a national compulsory holiday, because we believe it would be important to recognise as a compulsory holiday, which is not yet, the Third Carnival Fair. Therefore, on the side of the PCP, we will continue to fight for it, because we understand that leisure times are a fundamental right of workers. And it was important that if, in fact, PSD and CDS are so upset with this PS intervention, they could give a signal recognizing the importance of dedicating the Third Carnival Fair as a mandatory holiday. But they won't, and we know why. Because they are not on the side of the workers, nor of the rights to leisure and rest. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u210	Mr Pedro Roque, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u211	Mr President, it seems that neither the Left Block nor the CFP have read our draft resolution. This is not about bridges, but about holidays in the middle of the week. And since we speak in the interests of workers, there is all interest in them being glued and there are three days of rest at the end of the week. That is to defend the interests of workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u212	It's preventing them from building bridges!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u213	What holidays? We don't define them here. Those who have the economic and social interests that define them at the concertation table. So, I'm really weird that you didn't understand. As far as the Socialist Party is concerned, Mr President, this issue has already been raised. Now, where is the debate? Mr Vieira da Silva raised the issue, but he did not follow it up. I would like to recall what the Public Journal says about an interview given by the Minister to the TSF, precisely on May 25, 2016 : « The guardian of the folder(... ) points out that this is a discussion that must be held on the basis of a debate in the centre of social dialogue. ‘This aspect has to be discussed, of course, with the social partners and, to be able to move forward on this path, the decision to do or should not be much left to collective bargaining, because this solution may be very interesting for some sectors and less interesting for others’ (...). In addition, the Minister warns that not all holidays are susceptible to this change. ‘There are some who, by their nature, like the religious, or even some civilians—like 1. the May Day of the Worker –, would hardly be considered on other dates’, exemplified. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u214	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u215	Therefore, you have been the pioneers, but you have not followed this matter. I therefore call on them to be consistent and to vote in favour of our draft resolution. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u216	To conclude this debate, Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u217	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It was not The Greens, Mr António Carlos Monteiro, who withdrew holidays to Portuguese;...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u218	It was your proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u219	... it was the government that Mr. Deputy supported, the PSD and CDS government. If the honourable Member has read it wrong,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u220	Not bad, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u221	... or do not read the date of the entry of the diploma, which is November 15, 2015, do not wish to attribute guilt to The Greens. So read the project better and see the date of entry. I would also like to say the following: The Greens' concern was with the leisure of people, with the local economies and with the economy. Others didn't, they found it funny. Then, of course, what will happen is that public services, such as health centres, hospitals or courts, will have to wait until Carnival's eves to make up for that day because they do not know whether or not they are on holiday. And now I would challenge the PS, the PSD and the CDS to explain to the Presidents of the Chamber of Torres Vedras, Loulé, Sesimbra, Sesimbra, Ovar, Canas de Signorim, Alcobaça or Mealhada because they will have to stay « with their heart in their hands» until the eves of Carnival waiting for the government to decide or not to assign the holiday on that day. A final note on the PSD bill. Mrs. PSD members, it is not surprising that during the election campaign the voters ask them whether they are candidates for the Assembly of the Republic or whether they are candidates for members of the social dialogue. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u222	Mrs. Members, the general discussion of the projects of lein.o 21 / XIII ( 1 ) is concluded. ( a ) and 369 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and draft resolution No 604 / XIII ( 2. (a) and, with this, today's agenda. Mr. Secretary Emilia Santos has the floor to report on diplomas which have, however, entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u223	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted the following legislative initiatives: draft resolution No 618 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish mechanisms to simplify the procedure for the reimbursement of social mobility allowance ( PS ), which falls to 6. the Commission ; Parliamentary opinions(29 / XIII ) ( 2. a ) ( BE) and 30 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PCP ) — Decree-Law No 11 -A / 2017 of 17 January, which creates an exceptional measure of support for employment by reducing the contribution rate by the employer. They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the bill No. 51 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amend the freezing and loss regime for crime instruments and products in the European Union, transposing Directive No 2014 / 42 / EU, and draft deliberation No 13 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Third amendment to Deliberation No 1 - PL / 2016 of 19 January, as amended by Deliberation No 3 - PL / 2016 of 22 March, and by Deliberation No 5 - PL / 2016 of 10 May ( Composition of delegations to international parliamentary organizations ) ( President of the HR ).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-18.u224	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to announce the agenda for tomorrow's plenary session, Thursday, which will take place at 3 p.m.: the first item is the debate with the Minister of Health under Article 225. The Rules of Procedure. I would like to draw attention to the specific nature of the time regulation provided for in the Rules of Procedure for this specific type of debate. The second point follows the assessment of petition No 141 / XIII ( 1 ). a ) — They require more rigor, transparency and objectivity in science that uses animal models in research, maximizing animal welfare and the return of public investment (Gonçalo Faria da Silva et al.), together in general with Bill No 372 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Introduce stricter rules on the use of animals for scientific research purposes ( NAPs) and with draft resolutions 612 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by progressive reduction and elimination of the use of animals for scientific purposes ( The Greens ), 614 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of measures in the field of the use of animals in scientific research ( CFP ), 615 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Measures for the protection of animals for experimental and other scientific purposes ( BE) and 616 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government allocate a percentage of the innovation and development funds ( R & D ) of the public expenditure distributed by the Science and Technology Foundation ( FCT ) in non-animal methods ( NAP ). Finally, there will be a regiment vote. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 6 minutes.]]
