ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 7 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. from our agenda there is a period for political declarations and petitions will be appreciated. However, a request was made to the Bureau by the Parliamentary Groups of the Greens, the PS and the BE, in order to ensure that their political statements addressed the same issue—offshore—to request that, under the provisions of Article 72 ( 10 ) and ( 11 ). that of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, these political declarations are replaced by a current debate. And they further inform that the order of opening interventions in that debate is the one that was planned for today's political declarations, namely: Greens, PS and BE. Therefore, being the regulatory and absolutely clear, constitutional and transparent requirement, so we will proceed, that is, before the political declarations themselves, we will have this current debate. But, even before all this, Secretary Pedro Alves will take care of the file. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the projects of lein.os 419 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Revokes the foundational regime and establishes a model of democratic management of public higher education institutions ( first amendment to Law No 62 / 2007 of 10 September 2007 establishing the legal regime of higher education institutions ) ( PCP ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 420 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Third amendment to Decree-Law No 308 / 2007 of 3 September establishing and regulating the financial support programme Port 65 — Income for young people ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 421 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amendment of the denomination of « Parada do Bouro » in the municipality of Vieira do Minho, to « Parada de Bouro » ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 422 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amends the territorial limits of the parish of Bairro and Delães, of Vila Nova de Famalicão ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 423 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Measures for social support to mothers and parents students ( first amendment to Law No 90 / 2001 of 20 August ) ( PCP ), 424 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend Law No 90 / 2001 of 20 August 2001 laying down social support measures for mothers and parents students ( PAN) and 425 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The seventh amendment is made to Law No 108 / 91 of 17 August governing the Economic and Social Council ( PS ). It also entered the Bureau and was admitted, Parliamentary inquiry No 6 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Possible Parliamentary Investigation Commission for the action of the XXI Constitutional Government in relation to the appointment and resignation of the Administration of Dr. António Domingues ( PSD and CDS-PP ). They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, draft resolutions 679 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — On the urgent rehabilitation of the José Falcon High School in Coimbra ( The Greens ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 682 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends the urgent retraining of José Falcão High School in Coimbra ( PCP ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 683/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Protection of Portuguese tile heritage ( PCP ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 684 / XIII ( 2. a ) — Urgent requalification of the Basic School 2, 3 of the Upper Lumiar, in Lisbon ( BE ), 685 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government intervene in the replacement of trains in São Marcos da Serra ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, and 686 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent implementation of sedimentary transposition actions in the Figueira da Foz and Aveiro bars, as prescribed by the Coastal Working Group ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u3	Let us then start the current debate, required by The Greens, by PS and BE, on offshores. To begin the debate, Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After several episodes, some of them, even contradictory, that have arisen in the last few days, we are today faced with a conclusion that the facts cannot deny. The slight closing of the PSD/CDS government's eyes on financial transfers to tax havens is an unprecedented gravity and assumes the nature of a real national scandal, a tax scandal, which should, in fact, embarrass those responsible. But again, this case is right for political forces, such as the Greens Ecological Party, who have long advocated the need to take measures to combat these practices and policies that continue to favour those who want to escape their tax obligations. No one understands, the Portuguese do not understand, those who pay taxes do not understand, the families, who for five years have been subject to a real tax massacre, do not realize, as it may be, that a government has no control over the fulfilment of tax obligations, which does not want to know whether there were taxes to charge, that it is not concerned about the amount of tax revenues that the transfer of EUR 10 billion to tax havens would represent to our country. But this case comes first to show that the complaint that the Greens Ecological Party made to the PSD/CDS government was more than just. The previous government was, or was, at the service of the large economic groups, while carrying, by force, the tax burden on those who work,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u5	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u6	... with gross increases in labour income taxes, unacceptable cuts in wages and pensions and everything else we know. Today, we ask: how is it possible for a government to close its eyes to transfers of billions of euros to tax havens, mortgages and to clear families for small tax debts? Oh, my God! The answer can only be one: the PSD/CDS government did not hide the ideological faction that guided its options and policies. On the case that we are bringing today for discussion, it should be recalled that in the last 15-year debate with the Prime Minister here, in plenary, the Greens said that on this matter there was a need for different responsibilities and also political responsibilities. It was immediately heard by the PSD and the CDS that there were no political responsibilities to be assumed, that the PSD and the CDS would not assume any responsibilities, but, after all, the former State Secretary for Tax Affairs Paulo Nuncio eventually assumed those responsibilities. It's little, very little. The parties that made up the previous government must assume political responsibilities over what has happened. But this case, this leads to the close of eyes by the PSD/CDS government, still brought about the blatant propaganda that the PSD and the CDS were doing with regard to the fight against fraud and tax evasion. After all, when « taxpayer government » were self-titled, they did not lack the truth, they did not only say who were the taxpayers who were protecting them,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u7	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u8	...but we already knew and, at the time, we made their complaint. Today, it is clear to everyone that the PSD/CDS government has done a work that should embarrass its authors: while punishing Portuguese with taxes, wage cuts, cuts in pensions and cuts in social policies, which said it had no money to increase reforms and for the unemployed, the PSD/CDS government literally closed its eyes to the financial transfers of billions of euros to tax havens. So it should not be worth it, but unfortunately it was what happened: some lived in tax havens and the Portuguese generality lived a real tax hell. For the Greens, tax havens have been contributing, in a very sympathetic manner, to the immorality and tax injustice that is installed in our country. But in addition to this injustice and this tax immorality that are associated with tax havens, they were also the stage of some of the events of the crisis that settled, such as bank bankruptcy or large-scale fraud. On the other hand, in the studies, experts point to a concentration of 26% of world wealth in tax havens. And the worst thing is that these activities are often associated with the clandestine economy, tax evasion, tax fraud, organized crime, money laundering and sometimes many practices that weaken global stability, such as the drug business and even the arms business. But worse, this real casino economy is inseparable from the increase in social inequalities, poverty and unsustainability of the economic model that is taking place in the world. Here you will always remember the scandalous processes of BCP ( Banco Comercial Português ), BPP ( Banco Privado Português ) or BPN ( Banco Português de Negócios ), which indicated practices related to companies based exactly in tax havens and whose invoice ended up being paid by Portuguese taxpayers. The Greens consider it imperative to walk in order to eliminate tax havens as a way of also helping to credibility of our tax system. from our perspective, tax havens have to be looked at as a foreign element to our democracy. It is deeply unjust a system where some live in tax havens and others in real tax hell.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u9	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u10	This case of closing the Government's eyes before the transfer of billions of euros to tax havens should not only lead the PSD and CDS to assume political responsibilities over what has happened but also this House to think about the need to end once and for all with tax havens. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]] Mr President — Mr Eurico Brillante Dias of the PS Parliamentary Group is also speaking for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u11	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the PSD/CDS Government has had two weights and two measures: for Portuguese in general, for the common citizen, great efficiency in tax collection; for financial flows, for offshore, neglect, statistical concealment and poor monitoring. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The gentlemen. PSD and CDS members supported a strong government with the weak and weak with the strong. This is a brand that will stick to your skin and the Portuguese won't forget. The Portuguese have well marked in their memory a time of austerity, cuts in wages and pensions, crushing social rights and diminished social benefits. They know well how the tax machine has become more effective and intrusive. In itself this is not a problem, but they also know very well how they saw houses and wages charged by tax debts, even due to debts to motorway dealers, in a very close family environment, with unemployment exceeding 18 % in 2013. It was a darker time, more emigration, of heavy days, difficult to overcome, days of lead for many Portuguese families. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One public official has lost three monthly salaries per year between cuts and increases in taxes. Some pensioners were left without two pensions, without specific deductions and were confronted by the PSD and the CDS with the possibility of permanent cuts of reforms and pensions. We well remember that they even proposed to cut the survival pensions, where the surviving spouse was cut off the pension that, by the death of the husband or wife, would receive. Nor did the pension of the dead left in inheritance escape the politics of the cost of anything. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was everything, everything, everything! It was all cut-off and tax increase. Nothing, nothing, it seemed to escape, but unfortunately, it wasn't like that. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This PSD/CDS government, diligent in cutting and raising taxes and the prosecution of taxpayers, closed its eyes to financial flows to offshore, left the amendments of the now famous, Model 38 by deliberately regulating and hiding—we can say today — the statistics of the amounts transferred. [[P.S.'s applause.]] After a tax pardon with criminal amnesty and without requiring the return of capital, which never happened in similar exercises in PS governments, until 2014 left an incomplete polling of operations in a total of EUR 10 billion. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Between 2011 and 2015, despite the insistence, at least twice, of the then Director General of the Tax Authority, the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs Paul Nuncio did not have the statistics published, left the matter in the drawer for four years, did not seek to know the variation of the numbers and the causes of these variations, did not worry when journalists—and today we know — asked him insistently or even when Members of this House, in the past legislature, asked and waited for the answer in vain. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Today we know that not only was Paulo Nuncio questioned as well as the cabinet of the Minister of Finances Vítor Gaspar answered this Parliament incompletely, after a question from the CFP Parliamentary Group in 2013. And the new question addressed to the Minister of Finance remained unanswered, whether it was Vítor Gaspar, or when it was Maria Luís Albuquerque. We can say that either the financial holders or the Secretary-General for Tax Affairs knew that the advertising duty was not being met. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This deliberate concealment, even after the Tributary Authority's insistence, led to errors and omissions only later be disguised by a PS government, which brought back to good practice the publication of offshore transfer statistics. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We will continue on our path of scrutiny. We will fully fulfil our duty, because, as Mr Prime Minister has well said, the Portuguese would not tolerate that we would not signal, with particular condemnation, who, for four years, suffered from households for tax debts, at the same time that, negligently, did not guarantee the election of financial movements for offshore. We will continue to seek answers to the fundamental questions in this case. First: how is it possible that this deliberate attitude has been confined to the Ministry of Finance? Second: what transactions and issuers have not seen their operations properly scrutinized? Third: what taxpayers, if there are, have not fully met their tax responsibilities? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As Sophia wrote, «By the faces of silence and patience(...) And by the faces equal to the sun and the wind» we always said that there was another way and, in this context too, we had already begun to walk. The Portuguese can count on us. Nor will the PSD/CDS government remain politically unpunished in this case. The PS Parliamentary Group will call on the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization the former Ministers of Finances Vítor Gaspar and Maria Luís Albuquerque to provide further information on this case. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u12	For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u13	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: They left the country without control or verification by the Tax Authority, EUR 10 billion, i.e. 80 % of all offshore transfers between 2012 and 2014. And all of this happened under the nose of the same government that persecuted workers and small businesses, the same government that hit houses for failure to comply with the payment of tolls. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is legitimate to ask: how did a government so allegedly committed to combating fraud and tax evasion not fail at a failure of EUR 10 billion? The answer was given this morning by Paul Nuncio. The former State Secretary for Tax Affairs did not give for the lack of EUR 10 billion, a total of EUR 12 338 million transferred between 2012 and 2014 because he did not know the statistics, because he never wanted to know the value of the transfers, but still had many doubts about their publication. And, therefore, the government that cut wages, cut pensions, cut social support, the government that mistrusted the unemployed and mistrusted the poorest, that same government had doubts about the publication of official statistics on offshore transfers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u14	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u15	Let's get to the facts, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. last Tuesday, the public newspaper reports that 10 billion euros went out for offshore without control of the Tax Authority. on the following day, in full debate here, in the Assembly of the Republic, Passos Coelho rushed to deny responsibilities and Assumption Cristas dedicated himself to making accusations about news that had been planted in the newspapers. It took five days, a denial of the former director of the Tax Authority and so many other contradictions so that Paul Nuncio would come to dislodge what he said and assume political responsibility for not publishing the data. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this revelation, although it lasted a little longer a week ago, has already produced a memorable moment: the CDS leader, Assumption Cristas, not only thanked in public the work of Paul Nuncio as he came to say that the country owes him much.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u16	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u17	It is easy to see that companies that make tax planning and avoidance their business understand that they owe much to Paul Nuncio. Perhaps that is why the Portuguese Association of Investment Funds, Pensions and Heritage elected Paul Nuncio as « Personality of the Year » in 2016. [[Congratulations from BE.]] from here I tell all those who have honored and honored Paul Nuncio who do not speak on behalf of Portugal. The Republic owes nothing to the PSD/CDS government — that was most lacking! — and much less in the area of tax justice. Far from it! After all, we see what the country owes to the PSD/CDS government in finance and tax matters, in the mandate of Vítor Gaspar, Maria Luís Albuquerque and Paulo Nuncio. The country owes to PSD/CDS governance the fact that they have left their borders EUR 10 billion for tax havens, many of them non-cooperating, without any supervision. The country owes to PSD/CDS governance the scandal of the « VIP list », never properly clarified. The country owes to PSD/CDS governance a Unit of the Great Contributors, which served as more support office than as a fraud and escape control body. The country owes to PSD/CDS governance a reform of the IRC, kindly offered by a set of benemerites linked to sectors directly interested in facilitating the tax planning of large companies. The country owes to PSD/CDS governance, it is true, some measures that have aggravated the tax leak sanctioning framework. But the country also owes to PSD/CDS governance the Exceptional Regulating Tributary, the famous RERT III, a fiscal and criminal amnesty for all to legalize the money they had illegally placed outside the country. Paul Nuncio did not want anyone to be caught by surprise and gave everyone, even to all, the opportunity to "wash" legally the money they had hidden, paying a moderate rate of 7.5%, much lower than any worker and any company pay in this country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u18	That is, we owe the PSD and CDS that they have become a tax machine in a machine of injustice, inequality and social punishment on the weakest and the least.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u19	The CDS is the party of the "contributors"!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u20	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem is old, the responsibilities don't go to new ones and that is why we are going to solutions. In June last year, less than a year ago, the Left Block brought to this Parliament several proposals, and one of them is very simple: to ban non-cooperating offshore operations. After all, that's why there's a black list of offshores. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u21	In other words, we wanted to end transfers to territories that only serve — and we know that they only serve — from hiding to great fortunes, guaranteeing the escape of taxes, hiding the origin of capital and ensuring its bleaching. In view of this proposal, what did PS, PSD and CDS do? The same as always: they voted against, they prevented their approval. To each new scandal we return to the old proposals and, to each new proposal, the PS, the PSD and the CDS repeat the old excuses: "It is not possible! The problem is complex! The country can't do anything alone and it's doomed to wait! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” If the inaction has been the rule, the Left Block proposes concrete measures: today and here we are committed to re-prohibiting non-cooperating offshore transfers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u22	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u23	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the right has repeated times without account that hiding money in offshore is not illegal. I repeat: the right continues to repeat that hiding money in offshore is not illegal and does so to trivialize these operations and thus justify their inoperability, their inability and lack of political will to control them.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u24	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u25	I will finish, Mr. President. This is exactly where the problem is: offshores live on the edge of the law, in the shadow of legality. They are legal holes created to hide the most terrible illegalities, from fraud to bleaching, from trafficking to corruption. Let us also not forget that offshorers are always part of the history of the banking crises that devastated the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u26	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u27	I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that until today there has been no single banking scandal which had not involved offshore from BPN to Banif. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u28	Mrs Deputy, you really have to finish, because it's been too long.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u29	Mr President, I shall finish as soon as I can read the last paragraph of my speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u30	There will be more time during the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u31	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. This proposal that we present today is another proposal from the Left Block, is a relevant measure made on behalf of those who paid, with great sacrifice, the effect of a crisis while those responsible hid their fortunes in offshore. I appreciate the tolerance, Mr. President. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u32	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now entering the debate period. Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, Fernando Rocha Andrade, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u33	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are truly two distinct issues that are under discussion in this area. The first question relates to the publication of statistics on offshore transfers between 2011 and 2015, i.e. the period of previous governance. And in that regard, I believe that the data and explanations are already relatively clear and accurate. In 2010 the then Secretary of State Sergio Vasques determined the publication of these statistics. Between 2011 and 2015, the Tax Authority, having requested guidance to make this publication, did not obtain this confirmation or authorisation for reasons which were thus clarified by my predecessor. And finally, at the beginning of the mandate of this Government, since we were also asked by the Tax Authority for guidance, the guidance was given to resume compliance with the 2010 Order. The resumption of this compliance began to be the publication, in April of last year, of the statistics that had not been published, i.e. those relating to the period between 2010 and 2014, and that the statistical compilation work would also be resumed or continued so that the statistics of the subsequent years would be published in due time. So this is an issue, I believe, totally clarified, which has to do with two positions on the same subject: to publish those statistics or not to publish those statistics. The second question has to do with the fact that the Government has only been aware of it since last summer when statistics relating to 2015 were transmitted by the Tax Authority to the Government. And when we compared the 2015 statistics with the numbers that were published, and which had been compiled, of April 2014, we found that transfers to tax havens had increased by approximately EUR 400 million — that was the number that was known from 2014 — to almost EUR 9 billion. And, in view of such divergence, of course, the government asked the Tax Authority to know where this variation came from, which explained a 22-fold increase in transfers. Well, what was then answered was that the 2014 numbers were not correct, as were the 2013, 2012 and 2011 numbers. That is, the numbers that had been correctly reported to the Tax Authority by the financial institutions had not been correctly extracted from the files in the passage of these files deposited at the Finance Portal to the central system of the Tax Authority. Therefore, neither were available for publication, hence the statistics were wrong, nor for inspection. The issue of publication was, however, corrected, i.e. in December, the government sent to correct the statistics from 2011 to 2014 at the same time as it published the statistics from 2015. There are, of course, two questions concerning inspection: that of which it has not been done, there is no doubt, because this has been reported to us by the tax inspection; and that of which, for this amount, to these EUR 10 billion, this control has not been made, because those transfers were not known about the tax inspection, but, in the meantime, this is being done. There is, of course, another issue which is why we are probably all concerned about. How was this failure possible? And it was, of course, why this Government asked the General Financial Inspection ( IGF) to conduct an investigation so that it could provide us with the answers. These, ladies. Members, these are the facts as the Government knows them and so transmits them to Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u34	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u35	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, first of all I would like to welcome you from the fact that with this Government you have returned to the publication of the lists with the transfers to the offshores because it was necessary for the PSD/CDS Government to go away for the publication of these lists to return. I would also like to say that, in our view now, a tax system in which some live in tax havens and others in tax hell seems unfair to us. It seems to us that there is no sense today that there are places in the world where justice does not enter, where the judiciary is at the door and where governments pretend that nothing has to do with the matter and that nothing can be done. I know that the Portuguese Government alone cannot do anything, but I think that the Portuguese Government could, both at the level of the European Union and in the other international organisations it is part of, fight to end tax havens. Mr. Secretary of State, on the subject currently under discussion, what we can conclude is that during the PSD/CDS government it was the reign of tax havens. In other words, during the period of the PSD/CDS government there was a concealment of information, there was a violation of the duty to publish the data. The lack of scrutiny of movements to offshore, the lack of disclosure of millionaire transfers to offshore was more than a tax haven, it was a tax haven. And, therefore, we may be discussing whether or not it has been deliberate, but the truth is that this has happened. It was a kind of « transfer that the government pretends it does not see », or « transfer that the government closes its eyes ». Mr Secretary of State, given his experience in the matter, considering that there was no problem here, that there was no computer "Citius" as there was at the level of justice and having, in fact, the Tributary Authority carried out, in due course, either the treatment and inspection that would compete with him or the preparation of the elements necessary for the effective public disclosure of the elements concerned, the only possible conclusion, in our view, is that there has been no publication of these data because the Government did not want, because the PSD/CDS Government did not want that publication to be published. That is why he asks whether the Secretary of State will accompany us in our reading.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u36	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u37	To reply, Mr. State Secretary for Tax Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u38	Mr President, Mr President, it is not, of course, up to this Government to explain the reasons of the previous government, but I believe that, at this moment and at this time, the former Secretary of State has also clarified what would have been its reasoning, with which we do not agree. However, I would like to continue to point out that these are two different issues. That is, even if the previous government had sent the statistics to be published, at least initially, the same thing happened to us, that is, these statistics would have been published incomplete. What has really happened here is that transparency and publicity sometimes have these ancillary advantages. That is, only because there was this instruction to advertise is that, in those circumstances, we have come up with the other issue, which is potentially serious, and that there has been no inspection of those values. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u39	Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government and Mrs and Mrs. Members, the interventions we have already heard clearly show two ways of examining the problem: on the one hand, a responsible attitude, which Mr. Secretary of State has shown us; and on the other hand, a bacoco opportunism, champion of demagogy in the interventions of the parties that have already intervened. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] In fact, Mr Secretary of State, I am sure that you will subscribe to what I will say: if the demagogy paid taxes, it had its problems solved with the interventions that those parties have already done this afternoon. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] [[Protests from PCP MP Miguel Tiago.]] Moreover, these parties are here desecrating themselves because they are already drawing conclusions before the hearings proceed, before they question, before the IGF submits its report. You have all the conclusions!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u41	You're afraid of what you've been doing for four years!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u42	This just proves that the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you can't prestigious yourself.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u43	You're scared!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u44	Finally, Mr Secretary of State, in this matter we are with the Government, and we are with the Government by the following: we believe that everything must be clarified, that all hearings must be held, that all information must be made available. The clarification must be complete and the PSD will subscribe to what is necessary for everything to be definitively clarified, unlike other parties which currently support the government and who, when it is about the acts of this government, hide, vote against and reject this clarification at parliamentary level. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u45	That's not our position! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Furthermore, Mr Secretary of State, what we know and what has been said here is that there are two issues in this problem: one is that of the publication of the statistics, and we also regret that it has not happened.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u46	Don't be lazy!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u47	We therefore believe that they must become law-enforced so that such publication is no longer subject to the will of a Secretary of State. The other question has to do with inspection. And here, Mr Secretary of State, what I have told you is what makes sense, and that is not what the majority benches have to transmit right now, i.e., we have to wait for what the General Financial Inspection is doing, because that information must be made available. We need to know why there were 20 statements left to be examined, when today it was repeatedly stated by the former Secretary of State that there was no political orientation, no change in the internal control system, no change in the computer system so that they would have stopped doing so. If so, the Tax Authority must explain and the IGF must submit its report. Finally, and this is the last thing that is missing, Mr Secretary of State, in this case there are no lost taxes. [[Protests from BE and The Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u48	You don't know! After all, who has the conclusions? Is that you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u49	For this reason, rigour and demand must be in force in this debate so that the clarification is complete. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u50	For an intervention, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, at the hearing we have made today, in the morning, one of the words most often repeated by the banks that support the government was 'case', and it is a good word for describing everything that we have seen in recent days on this matter. It is indeed a case, and it is a very convenient case. If there is something that was also evident, after hearing Mr. Secretary of State, is that, if we could have heard the current Secretary of State and the former Secretary of State last Friday,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u52	last Friday, Paul Nuncio did not recognize anything, he said that the problem was the Tax Authority!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u53	... many of the things that you have spent the weekend, Monday and Tuesday that you could no longer say. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u54	It is well understood why the PS was unavailable on Friday afternoon. You can see why he was unavailable! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u55	We've seen that she's delicious!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u56	And, Mr Secretary of State, it will be excellent to hear you because, from what you said, we already have more to discuss than we had when you arrived. In fact, your statement, I must tell you, quite contrasts with what we have heard from your party and from the parties that support the government, and contrasts with the positive, Mr. Secretary of State, I say it frankly. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, after days we will hear you say, "They have fled 10 billion euros! “ Come out! ” , « You flew part of Portuguese GDP without anyone giving it to you for that! », captained by Mr. Prime Minister, who said that the case was scandalous, after all this, we were all one morning listening to the former Secretary of State and more than 90 % of the questions you asked concerned the disclosure of statistics.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u57	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u58	This is what you are talking about: disclosure of statistics. Therefore, to disseminate statistics, that the former Secretary of State has already claimed to be political... I know that you find it strange, because you are used to covering up, throwing up smoke curtains. [[CDS-PP applause.]] No one has any responsibility for anything, no individual responsibility. But there are those who do politics in a different way! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] After all this, you don't have a question to ask about EUR 10 billion...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u59	They're offshore!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u60	Yeah, yeah! That's where the PCP puts the money from the Front Party!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u61	Don't! This is not where the submarines live!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u62	... and whether or not they have been inspected. Therefore, it remains an essential issue. The Secretary of State said here that these statements, besides having not been worked, had not been inspected from a statistical point of view. It will be important and essential to realize, for example, how this coincides with the statements by Azevedo Pereira, who was responsible until July 2014, who said, taxively, that the Tax Authority carried out, in due time, both the treatment and inspection that competed with it, or the part of the statistical treatment. Therefore, of two, one : or this is not true or, then, in fact, there was no such inspection treatment.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u63	But there's a third chance!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u64	It will also be important to realize what has happened in recent months in relation to this matter, because yes! , EUR 10 billion is not tax revenue,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u65	We don't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u66	... are receipt of transfers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u67	But it should have been controlled and it wasn't! That's the problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u68	... and may have been the acquisition of goods and other types of bank transfers. We need to find out! More, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, last and foremost: I hear often here, whether the PCP or the Bloc, they say that if it were so, if it was roast, none of this would happen. Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, you support the government, please remove consequences from what you have said!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u69	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u70	And more: with regard, for example, to the concrete proposal of the Left Block to prevent transfers to offshore, to ban, Mrs Mariana Mortagua, I have two things to say to you. The first is that it seems to me that the proposal will only lead to capital rather than being transferred from Portugal and being inspected, being transferred from third countries. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] But if you think this is so important, I don't understand how it's related to a party that voted against this proposal, the Socialist Party. You don't get it. Be consistent. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u71	Mr Miguel Tiago of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One first question is that if the PSD and the CDS had not been masked, until they would continue to hide the billions of euros that left the country without identification and without scrutiny by the Tax Authority. [[PCP applause.]] A second question that arises is that Paul Nuncio assumed that he had not disclosed the statistics because he had doubts. Long doubts, four years of doubts, without ever doing anything to clarify them, because he did not take a single step to clarify the doubts he had. As much as he told us, not even with his finance ministers! Therefore, this doubt favored and objectively aimed to allow a very large volume of capital to exit Portugal through offshore transfers without any scrutiny by the tax inspection.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u73	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u74	But this, Mr. Members of the CDS, this wasn't a submarine.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u75	I was missing! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u76	This was a plane carrier that was crawling out of the country loaded with money. Mr. João Oliveira ( PCP):- Exactly! [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u77	And the Front Party is going to start paying taxes? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u78	Mrs. Members, the other questions are political and related to the political options that define the PSD/CDS government and its nature and class commitments. The way in which they were committed to large economic groups to circumvent workers' rights, to distort their wealth, to carry taxes, to steal wages and allowances, to withdraw holidays and holidays, was the same way as they showed total kindness to large economic groups,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u79	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u80	...at the same time they sent out the wealth they produced here, and much of it we don't even know how it was obtained. This is a mark of the four years of PSD/CDS government and of the commitments it has made, a government that for the strong was very weak and only boasted of being strong in front of the weak.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u81	Why didn't you publish statistics? Oh, my God! Explain!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u82	But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as long as we continue to discuss offshore always based on fashion elements—or are the updates that have just been possible through statistics, or are PanamaPapers, or are SwissLeaks — while we continue to focus this debate on this media wave, we will continue to pretend that we are solving when everything is in it. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the key question is to accept and understand that offshore is part of the functioning of the capitalist system that you defend and that concrete measures are needed. These concrete measures have already been brought here by the CFP, sometimes without account, and not only with questions to the former Government. Indeed, now Mr Duarte Pacheco says that the statistics have not been carried out, but Mr Deputies, it has not been for lack of memory, because the CFP has confronted his government, sometimes without account, in writing, orally, in the Committee on Budgets and Finance, let us say that with a great insistence, and it does not appear that Mr Deputy, at that time, has taken any initiative to have the statistics disclosed or to have been known publicly...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u83	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u84	... the value of financial flows originating in Portugal and destined to offshore, mainly at a time when BES was collapsing and it was necessary to know if it was not fleeing money from the country, of the large economic groups that dominated, orbited or contracted credit in Banco Espírito Santo.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u85	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u86	Therefore, the PCP once again recalls that it is necessary to take measures that also attack the fundamental problem, which is to combat offshore transfers, combat transfers to tax havens, tax them when they are cooperating tax havens and prohibit them...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u87	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u88	... when we know that you are going behind a biombo behind which nobody can know anything, and we pretend that we have a regulation at the same time that we stimulate, and sometimes even hide, as the previous government did, the placing of that money behind that biombo, which, as we see, is rather opaque and now knowing where it was going to be much harder than it would have been taxed in Portugal. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u89	For an intervention on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, Mr João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS has exalted the performance of Paul Núncio, almost to the point of saying that it was a new kind of « Santo Condestable » of tax. The country doesn't understand.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u91	It's a bit extreme, isn't it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u92	The CDS decided to praise the character of someone who told a version that had come to reveal a lie, a second version that also revealed a lie and a third version that was true, not because of the honour and character of Paul Nuncio but because the former State Secretary for Tax Affairs was caught lying. The third is a given version after having been caught lying, not an example of great character and democratic self-denial of Dr. Paulo Nuncio.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u93	First he blamed the'mexilhão'!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u94	But the CDS and Dr. Paulo Nuncio also came in the morning to say the same thing, to « hit on the same key», saying that transfers to tax havens have decreased. It happens that there is a problem with this statement, which has been made repeatedly by Mrs Cecilia Meireles and the former Secretary of State Paul Nuncio, and the problem of this statement, made by the honourable Member and the former Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, is common: it is false! Transfers to tax havens have not decreased or, better, have been reduced if they invented a year « to the thresholds ». Perhaps they went down from 1997 or 2002. But one year ago, Mrs. Deputy of the CDS and the former Secretary of State omitted, because they always said that in 2011/2014 they were lower than in the past, and they forgot one year in particular, which was the year immediately before they took up their duties. The year to compare is not 2008, 2007, 2006 or 2002, is 2010, which was the year of office of the former Secretary of State Sergio Vasques. This is the year they should use, if they want to compare whether offshore transfers have increased or decreased. Mrs. Deputy and now, former Secretary of State Paul Nuncio, I have a novelty to give you: it is that, by 2010, transfers to tax havens have increased in each year of the previous government, not a little, but every year more than 25% in 2010. I'd like to know why the CDS spent three hours in a hearing in the Committee on Budget and Finance omitting this fact... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u95	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u96	... and to compare the transfers with 2009, to compare 2009 with 2011 and 2014, omiting the most relevant year, which is the last year of the previous PS Government, the year that the CDS, the Member Cecilia Meireles and the former Secretary of State omitted all morning — the year 2010. So, ladies and gentlemen, as you still have time, I would like to ask you a very simple question: will you remove everything you said this morning about the fact that transfers to offshore had fallen from the past and that would be a sign of the effectiveness of previous government measures in combating offshore transfers? Since they have increased, what the honourable Member said was false. And she asked Mrs Deputy to portray here, in plenary, what she said this morning and to assume, contrary to what the CDS said all morning and that it was the basis of her argument, which is false, that is, that the offshore transfers have gone down. They increased by 25% each year. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u97	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u98	Mrs Mariana Mortágua from the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u99	Mr President, Mr Duarte Pacheco, the PSD regrets that there has been no publication of the transfers to offshore but certainly does not remember questions about the non-publication of offshore transfers that were made to the cabinets of the Minister and the Minister of Finance, who were from the PSD, and that were not answered. It will also not, of course, be remembered that when the Left Block, a year ago, brought to this House the vote of a proposal to legally make the publication of transfers to offshore all parties voted in favour and the PSD abstained. There were, at that time, any doubts as to the compulsory nature of the publication. Fortunately, you will have the opportunity to vote, since this proposal from the Left Block remains valid and can be voted on by the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u100	It's the Nuncio vote!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u101	But it also came here to say something else: that there was no escape from the tax in these transfers. And the question is, how do you know? How do you know there was no tax escape? Given that transfers have not been monitored, how can you state that there has been no tax evasion? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u102	It's just saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u103	How can you say there was no money laundering?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u104	It's just saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u105	How can you say there was no tax evasion? You can't, because there was no supervision! So, yes, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, « flew» EUR 10 billion from the country without further scrutiny. It's true! « Fly» EUR 10 000 million from the country that was not inspected and when we want to know why we were not inspected we reached an even worse conclusion, which is: when asked to the previous Secretary of State we knew what the value of offshore transfers was in 2012, 2013, 2014, he said he did not know why he never asked the services what the value of transfers was. Therefore, as he never asked, he could never verify that there was a brutal discrepancy in the data that justified a much lower value in 2014 than he had been in 2010.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u106	Great luck!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u107	So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if this is not intended, it is incompetence; if this is not intended, it is negligence; if this is not proposed, it is the opposite of what the government to which they were to say to do, that it was to combat fraud and combat tax evasion. It is the opposite of the fight against fraud and the fight against tax evasion! [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, although there was no debate here on Friday, because then the former Secretary of State Paul Nuncio had not yet had the opportunity to redeem himself and undo the lie he had told in a rather ascetic statement, let it be said by way of passage, because that is exactly what happened. The former Secretary of State began by saying that there was an obligation to publish the statistics but that he had not published because there was a disagreement with the Tax Authority, so that even today he came to the Commission saying that he understood or had doubts about his publication, these doubts that he never told a member of the Government, a minister, the Members of the Assembly of the Republic, a media agency. Therefore, you have doubts about five years, about transfers you don't know, about those that don't transmit or communicate to anyone. To finish, Mrs. Members, we do not accept the 'potato logic' which tells us that we cannot prevent capitals from fleeing to tax havens because unless capitals flee to these same tax havens. This logic makes little sense...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u108	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u109	...and it is not an answer to the timing for the ban on a transfer that should not be legal because it is not made for legal purposes. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u110	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as there are no more entries, we have two ways of solving the problem: one is to end the debate, another is to give the floor... [[Pause.]] Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor, which seems to be the alternative in this case.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u111	Mr President, it is not a bad thing, on the contrary, but I imagined that the other parties that have more time than we wanted to talk about. Mr. João Galamba, since Minister Mário Centeno was caught in a lie, after he could no longer deny that he was actually caught in a lie, he went to Strategy 2, which is trying to put everything in the same bag. It is the so-called « they are all equal». in my case, he came knocking on the wrong door, even knocking on the very wrong door. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u112	Tell Nuncio to send the text messages here!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u113	Mr. Deputie can choose selectively to forget that Dr. Paulo Nuncio said taxively that he was referring to data between 2011 and 2014. And why that period of time? Because that's what you're using.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u114	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u115	Of course, Mr. President. So, Mr Deputy, about the transfers, I will tell you the following: year 2011 — 4625 million; 2012 — 4373 million, less than in the previous year; 2013 — 4159 million, less than in the previous two years;...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u116	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u117	... 2014 — 3805 million, less than in previous years. That's all I said, Mr. Deputies. Anyone understands, there is no lie in this. [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u118	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u119	I appreciate the tolerance, Mr President, but since I was accused of lying, I think it is also of the most basic impartiality I have the right to defend myself. Don't you think? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u120	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we still have no registrations. I draw attention to the fact that this current debate has been requested by the Greens, the PS and the Left Block and it will therefore be normal for the interventions of these parties to end. In any case, Mr Galamba has signed up. You have the floor, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u121	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, the honourable Member has forgotten again the year I mentioned. What Dr. Paulo Nuncio said this morning, and that the honourable Member repeated times without account, was that the transfers during this government, i.e. in the period 2011 / 2014, omiting 2015, which has now forgotten, were smaller than in the past. What I said, and I repeat — the honourable Member does not have time to debate anymore but will certainly have a lot of time to go back to this matter — was that the honourable Member has omitted this morning, and has now omitted again, the year 2010.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u122	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u123	Therefore, Mrs. Member, I repeat again: it is a lie that the transfers have been downloaded from the last year of the previous PS Government between 2011 and 2014,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u124	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u125	... because the last year of this government was 2010 and they were lower.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u126	Please conclude, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u127	And now, if it includes the year 2015, which very conveniently omitted the statistics for the previous government is even worse.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u128	You really have to finish, Mr. João Galamba.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u129	Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I repeat all that you have said and the honourable Member still owes an explanation to this Parliament because you have not clarified anything. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u130	Mr. Miguel Tiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, particularly Mrs. Members of the PSD and the CDS: it was worth answering a question I asked you, which was to know when they would have assumed your responsibilities if they had not been masked and if they had not been discovered the value they were hiding. [[PCP applause.]] It is that they can now unfold in explanations that are in sight of what they have been hiding in the past. What is clear, and not only with this debate but with the work that the Assembly of the Republic has been carrying out around this amount of EUR 10 billion and the discrepancy between what was known and what is now known about transfers to offshore, is that there was a political option and this political option is the responsibility of the previous government, it is the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance and also of the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs. And it is an option to, at the same time that those who live from their work were bouncing the wealth of those who work without inspection, at the same time to the last grain, let them pass without inspection, beyond their tax inspection capacity, EUR 10 billion from offshore transfers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u132	Mr President, you have already exceeded your time, so I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u133	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this issue is absolutely essential for the political brand to be clear behind this option. Finally, Mr President, I reiterate that wanting to solve this problem is to prohibit transfers to non-cooperating offshore.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u134	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u135	If we know they're not cooperatives, that they're going to hide everything that's going on there, why do we still allow the money that's generated here to be sent? Oh, my God! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u136	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u137	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I just want to say that I seem to have had very little enthusiasm on the part of the PSD and the CDS in defense of the indefensible. [[CDS-PP laughter.]] There was very little enthusiasm, but they were slightly accusing. In fact, it was only Mr Duarte Pacheco's fault that the previous government, the PSD/CDS government, failed to publish the transfers to offshore parties that scheduled this debate because, moreover, they were guilty of everything. The PSD has yet to say that the parties that have scheduled the debate are drawing hasty conclusions before the hearings, but Mr Duarte Pacheco has certainly said that there is no fiscal leak. So, who's drawing hasty conclusions, Mr. Deputies? Oh, my God! It's not the parties on the left! Mrs Cecilia Meireles says we are used to covering responsibility. No, ma'am! What we are not used to is that the CDS, one day, says that there are no political responsibilities to be assumed and, the next day, the former Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, Paulo Nuncio, says that it assumes political responsibility...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u138	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u139	...and even resigns from all the positions he holds on the CDS. We're not used to that! [[CDS-PP laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u140	They're not!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u141	So I believe that by calling it demagogy or not, facts are facts...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u142	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u143	...and what is true is that the PSD and CDS government has closed its eyes to millionaire transfers, protecting large economic groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u144	That's the one!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u145	We are talking about the transfer of EUR 10 billion to tax havens, we are not talking about the changes that were going to seek to reforms and cuts in wages and what you said you were not going to pay to the unemployed. We are talking about EUR 10 billion! The government closed its eyes to large economic groups, to transfers, but was always alert to leaving families homeless for small tax debts. That's the point! Everything else is conversation. In fact, it's the conversation we keep hearing about PSD and CDS...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u146	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u147	...and that is what the Portuguese continue to endure as a result of the policies that sustained this conversation. I am glad that this debate was scheduled because we could see that there were serious irresponsibilities of the previous government, the PSD and the CDS, and we are still waiting for them to be taken over. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u148	Mrs. Members, having no further requests for speech, although the Government, PSD, BE and the Greens still have time, we have concluded the current debate on offshore and we will move on to the period for political declarations. To that end, you have the floor, first of all, Mr Fernando Negrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is up to me today to bring to the debate the issue of 'internal security', with regard to very recent events which have caused, and which have caused, of course, social alarm, revealing weaknesses that need to be overcome, as well as new criminal phenomena that cannot and should not be devalued, but rather, with the spirit of those who know them and want to identify them, in fact, to put them in charge. Let's see. in the area of prison services, on 19 February, there was an escape from the Prison Establishment of Caxias, involving three prisoners, two Chilean nationalities and one third with double nationality. This escape, in addition to occurring in a prison establishment that has never presented the serious security problems of others, is involved in a set of 'experties' worthy of a manual of everything that should not be done. In last Saturday's interview, says the Director-General for Resettlement and Prison Services who finds no explanation for the fact that this escape occurred, since it would be almost impossible not to be detected. This statement is revealing that we can be faced with new and more dangerous criminal phenomena, which will go far beyond our borders, linked to organised crime, for which we urgently need to provide the prison services with the necessary and sufficient means to deal with them. What is found is the absence of a set of procedures for escape situations, leading to the communication of only three hours after it and, as a matter of fact, not to a criminal police — PSP, GNR or judicial police — but to emergencies, to 112. in the framework of the PSP, on 16 February, we became aware of the disappearance of 57 police-use weapons, as well as their ammunition and chargers, of the facilities of the national headquarters of the Public Security Police, not of the many teams scattered by the country or of any of the facilities of this criminal police body, but of the national headquarters of the Public Security Police! And, even more serious, the disappearance of these weapons and their accessories—ammunitions and chargers—was detected only after a seizure made in a hive in a port neighborhood where one of these weapons was seized. Explanations for the success still do not exist, but we already believe that everything may have happened because of the lack of precise and demanding rules on the protection of arms and the possible intervention of international organized crime groups, because at least three of these weapons have already been found in Ceuta. in the framework of the Foreign and Border Service, what about the various escapes of Algerian citizens at Humberto Delgado Airport, in which one of the causes would have simply been the fact that « they let him go smoking»? Oh, my God! This is also not a matter of minor importance, since the Public Prosecutor's Office has opened a criminal investigation and one of the alleged crimes is the association of aid to illegal immigration, which is the equivalent of the commonly referred to as 'criminal association'. in the European plane, what has been done? First of all, there is a need to assume, at the operational level, that although responsibility for security lies primarily with the Member States, transnational threats such as terrorism, cybercrime and organised crime cannot be effectively combated without a common European approach. in the framework of the European agenda, we are debating ourselves with problems of bureaucracy, for example concerning the laxity of the adoption of the Terrorism Directive. in the internal context, there is an almost unbearable delay in the creation of a single entity with clear competences which, without ambiguities, improves the exchange and sharing of information, strengthens international cooperation and invests in training and innovation. The creation of the single contact point is urgent and there are only two missing countries, one of which is Portugal. Without this structure it will be difficult, if not impossible, to exchange information within Europe. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not the first time that the PSD draws attention to the degradation of public services. Looks like it's safe time too. Security is a fundamental and central asset to ensure the set of rights, freedoms and guarantees that enable us to live in democracy and freedom. To speak of security today without speaking of the need for controlled policies of a security nature is a weak security which results in the above facts, and others, perhaps worse. Finally, these are examples of the lack of organisation and lack of management capacity in services of the greatest importance in any society. These are examples of the urgent need to modernise structures based on old mutual trust rules and archaic and incipient structures. These are examples of a country that still looks at security as if the crimes were the same decades ago and as if the country was not also the victim of organized crime. Finally, these are examples of the many reforms to be made and of the urgent need for the good of the country, of a reformist government to do what needs to be done. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u150	Mr Fernando Negrão, the Bureau records the registration of four Mrs. Members to make requests for clarification, so I ask you how you wish to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u151	Two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u152	So you have the floor, first of all, Mr Filipe Neto Brandão.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u153	Mr President, Mr Negrão, I would like to congratulate you on bringing the issue of internal security to this Parliament, but remind you that, and I think you will agree and converge in this assessment, the area of internal security, as the area of sovereignty that it is, must always be treated with rigour and based on objective and not in itself subjective assessments, as I know, and you well know, that there is a difference between objective security and feeling of insecurity. The feeling of insecurity translates a complex system of social representations and actions that is even induced, as many times, by the effectiveness of police repression. He gave an example, in particular, of the news, in itself worrying, of the disappearance of several PSP pistols, which emerged precisely from police pro-activity and, therefore, from the detection of this crime. But, in an internal security analysis, we always have to distinguish between aggregate numbers, which are those that are politically revealing, and isolated cases, which are obviously dependent on a case-by-case assessment, of course, reported to the analysis and investigation of the agent. The honourable Member mentioned examples which are under investigation and which give the possibility that members of the security forces may be involved in criminal practices. Now, we all know, and I think that you should point out, Mr President, that this judgment can be extended to the organization of the respective security forces, as it is obvious, and that does not turn them into a suspect object. Therefore, this should be emphasized. But with regard to aggregate numbers, what I meant is that the information that comes to us is that the crime involved continues to fall and the violent and serious crime continues to fall, despite, of course, the existence of cases that concern us. But I must say, and the honourable Member has already referred to this — and it is no longer the first to do so, it has already done so in 1. the Commission, in particular, which, for example, in the case of Algerians, the Minister had already had the opportunity in this House to state that there is no indication that that flight did not occur only by the so-called 'opportunity leaks'. In other words, from the investigation that is under way, there is no indication that it can...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u154	Mr President, I ask you to finish, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u155	... to derive from an organized crime and therefore was also with that question that he posed and with it ended. Mr Deputy, in the previous Parliament, several times the PSD and the government then addressed the issue of internal security. I had the opportunity today to review that, in all the interventions, Portugal was a safe country and that it deserved to be underlined as such.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u156	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u157	I note that you have not done so today, but Mr President, I would like to point out to you that Portugal is, and continues to be, a safe country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u158	Mr António Filipe has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u159	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, brought the Plenary events which, from a criminal and public security point of view, are serious. We do not deny the seriousness of these problems. They are occurrences that, fortunately, did not cause victims, but are serious. Speaking of victims, I remember that, a few years ago, there were escapes from prisons that, including fatally victimized prison guards. Fortunately this did not happen this time, but they are indeed serious. And of course, the theft of the weapons from where they were stolen, that is, from the PSP, obviously reflects the seriousness of the situation. The honourable Member has already had the opportunity to raise this question in 1. the Commission, where it has been assessed and even where we have already obtained clarification from the Government on certain aspects and we will certainly still get them in relation to others. This has already been treated. It is obvious that the circumstances in which these events occurred should be strictly clarified and investigated. In fact, everything that has criminal relevance will certainly be the subject of criminal investigation by the competent authorities and, from an internal point of view, from the point of view of the functioning of the security forces and the services involved, there must also be strict clearance of responsibilities, and we support all measures taken to this end. But, Mr President, anyone who has heard his speech and has not known the reality of the country, and particularly the development of the country in recent years, would think that there has been a sudden deterioration in the conditions of operation of the security forces and services. When we refer to the lack of prison guards and the lack of any — which, even today, has been the subject of debate and denunciation — clear instructions given to the prison guards on how to act in certain circumstances, we would be able to think that these had all the necessary instructions one and a half years ago and that they have now no longer had, when, indeed, the situation is not that. The PCP has been insisting on the need for greater investment in security forces and services. We also find it very good that there has again been an investment programming law in the security forces and services of the Ministry of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u160	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u161	I will finish, Mr. President. That is the law which the previous Government has abolished. So I am glad that there is once again a law, contrary to what happened to the previous government. In conclusion, Mr President, what we think is that the disastrous situation that the previous government has left in this area must be changed and measures should be taken to what the CFP has been proposing, so that these situations can be effectively prevented. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u162	In reply, Mr Fernando Negrão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u163	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, first of all, I would like to congratulate Mr António Filipe on the questions and considerations he has raised and, above all, because he can see it in the role of unconditional supporter of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u164	You didn't hear me!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u165	It seems that the government does everything well, including in the area of security, and nothing happens wrong, unlike a year and a half ago, in which everything was bad and there was no problem that the CFP would not identify as a terrible error of the Government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u166	I didn't want to hear what I said!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u167	Anyway, other times! Open... Mr Neto Brandão and Mr António Filipe, listening to your speeches, the feeling is that you do not want to bring together the episodes of enormous gravity that have taken place in the area of internal security. You want to see them separate and say that each one has a different treatment from the other, that is, you do not have a global view of what may be happening, in terms of organised crime, in Portugal. I am not saying that we are having but, yes, that we will be able to come and we must be careful, and especially attentive, to those signs, under our own shame, ladies and gentlemen, we will be zero and we will be here waiting for the services to carry out their administrative procedures, the courts for their legal proceedings and we will not say anything because we have no notion of what is going on in our society. Mr António Filipe, Mr Neto Brandão, we have a view of society, we have the perception of what is happening in society and we do not, at any time, resign ourselves to taking a stand on any matter. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u168	On arms, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, do you think this isn't serious? I would add one more thing to what you said: Mr President of the Republic last Friday gave us a call to all Portuguese — a telephone call you made to the Minister of Internal Administration, asking what measures have been taken in this regard. Now, do we have a President to speak to a Minister about security issues, and do you think that this is not serious at all? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u169	Did anyone say that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u170	When the President is the first to be, of course, particularly concerned about this? Oh, my God! Of course, I am very surprised at the fact that you are. Members would like to devalue what is happening in Portuguese society. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u171	As for the fact that Portuguese society is secure, it is indeed a secure society and we must do everything to keep it safe. But for that, we have to invest in protection. And investing in protection is looking at the criminal phenomena that are happening and having adequate and adjusted responses to them. This is criminal prevention and this is where the fight against crime has to be done. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u172	We moved on to the second round of requests for clarification. Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u173	Mr President, Mr Negrão, I would like to begin by complimenting you on making a political statement on a serious subject, a serious issue and having done so in a rather serious way, trying to escape any temptation that you might have — we have seen other parties here in the past do so — to hyperbolize the issues...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u174	He's talking against you! My mirror, my mirror...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u175	... to adjective questions, to cause social alarm. You have had this political and intellectual seriousness to try to put things as they are. Mr President, I would like to begin by saying that, fortunately, the country is still a safe country, if compared to other countries - it must be said, with all certainty - and it is also important to stress, as you stressed, that what is happening, what has happened in recent years, has been serious: prison escapes... [[Protests by PCP Member Antonio Filipe.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u176	... prison escapes, Mr. Antonio Filipe, is what the PCP today thinks is normal. The PCP that, whenever anything happened, came to say it was wrong...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u177	I could say 10 times!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u178	... he quit, he's gone, he's partly uncertain.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u179	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u180	It says it's all normal, it's all right, these questions don't matter. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] High-security prison escapes, weapons with stolen charger from PSP national headquarters, escapes at Lisbon airport, serious failures by security service forces... what's going on? For the PCP, for the Left Block and for the PS nothing happens, it's all normal!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u181	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u182	Mr President, I was listening to you and the honourable Member said that no reformist momentum is seen, any desire by this Government, by this majority, by this Minister in particular, to make any kind of reform. Mr President, I was listening to you and thinking that, in fact, it is true. We only see the Minister do one of two things: or, as Mr Filipe Neto Brandão has said, if she is very concerned, very hard, to investigate, because the situation is very complicated, very difficult, in a tone of those who do not know what you are doing well — this is the version a, «which is very serious, is under investigation», etc. — or, in the second scenario, appears to come to say that, after all, you have something to present. And with Mrs. Minister this has happened once. There the honourable Member was a little unfair, because the Minister had a great reformist spirit here. Do you know what it was? It was when he tried to make that roll law, which ordered the union leaders to shut up, that the PCP, the Left Block and the PS, the left, now find it very well.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u183	Sir, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u184	I should have done a long time ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u185	I've ordered him to shut up 10 times!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u186	Send a law that the president himself of ASPP (Union Association of Police Professionals ), affects the CGTP, says it should shame the left! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u187	Therefore, Mr President, perhaps for what we have seen of the Minister, at least evil for internal security: it is better to investigate, and thus appear to be « apparent», than to make reforms that end up closing unions. Don't you think so, sir? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u188	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs. Sandra Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u189	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all we welcome the fact that we are bringing this issue of internal security to debate in this House. however, we miss this concern of the PSD, which seems to us a sudden concern, with the quality of public services in our country,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u190	Look who's talking!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u191	... even from public internal security services. It seems that it was necessary to go to the opposition to finally worry about public services and their quality in the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u192	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u193	We also surprise you and this use of the statements made by the President of the Republic, when the President of the Republic has made statements on so many situations and matters of such great importance to the country,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u194	They don't matter!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u195	... related to the country economy, related to stability, to economic data, and the PSD has always been quiet.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u196	But we know now that he hears!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u197	Now, at last, they have found a common point and they are backed by Mr President of the Republic's statements for this debate. But I must tell you, Mr President, that the Left Block, by chance, was the only party who has already asked the Government precisely about the situation in prisons, particularly in the Caxias prison, about the problems of overcrowding and how this obviously leads to security problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u198	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u199	Obviously, these problems of overcrowding have not been born now, of spontaneous generation, they are not from now on. These problems of overcrowding have been a long time ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u200	the PSD Government / CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u201	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u202	And the PSD/CDS-PP government didn't do anything to solve them when it could and when it was in that condition.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u203	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u204	I must also remind you that we have made a proposal for a multiannual plan to re-qualify and modernise the prison system for the country, which was approved in Budget with the abstention of the PSD and the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u205	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u206	So, of course, we are concerned about these situations, we make concrete proposals and we do not just make ourselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u207	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u208	I will finish, Mr. President. Finally, we do not simply bring up the debate on issues to, like what has been happening, try somehow to find divisions where they do not exist, since security is a matter of interest to all and to all in this Parliament. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u209	In reply, Mr Fernando Negrão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u210	Mr President, Mrs Sandra Cunha, I cannot help telling you that we must help everyone who gives opinions that we find interesting and important for the debate. We therefore support — if you want to use that term — the statements made by Mr President of the Republic. In fact, it was not the statements that we were helping ourselves, it was the concern of the President of the Republic as to what is happening. Your speech, Mrs Deputy, is very interesting for one reason.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u211	Very interesting!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u212	The honourable Member made a series of criticisms and then said « but we called the Minister to come here»,... [[Protests from BE Member Sandra Cunha.]] ... which means that you are also concerned about problems in the area of internal security.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u213	In voting time, it's all the opposite...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u214	You know there's problems, and that's why they called Mrs. Minister to come here. Deep down, Mrs Sandra Cunha, we all live in the same society, suffer from the same problems, and when it comes to us, irrespective of who we are, we normally do the same things. Mrs. Member, your party has called Mrs. Minister. We also called the Ministers, the Justice and the Internal Administration. Mr Nuno Magalhães, this is all about a problem, which is the de-investment of this government in the essential functions of the state!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u215	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u216	It is not only in education, it is not only in health, it is now also in safety! And that disinvestment has this result! But come to say that the previous government has also disinvested, that it has not done, that it has done wrong... for God's sake, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! Do you want to solve any problems or do you want to make history? Are we historians? Or are we here to solve Portuguese problems? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u217	We're here to solve the problems! That's what we want! If you want to make history, I recommend them, then write books...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u218	You've done a lot of that already!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u219	...and leave for posterity! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u220	To give the political declaration of the CDS-PP, Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u221	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Today we place the theme of the internationalisation of the Portuguese economy at the centre of the parliamentary debate. by doing so, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we must start by noting that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is asleep in this matter. More and more, it seems that the current Minister for Foreign Affairs, responsible for the conduct of Portuguese diplomacy, likes little of the economy and doubts itself, even that he lives well with the foreign. Since the Government has taken office, it is clear that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has not been in a position to take a leading position in this process, precisely by making a reading, in our view, too short, on economic diplomacy. We all remember the criticism that the Socialist Party directed to the former Government that foreign policy had been sprayed and reduced to economic diplomacy. We have always considered these criticisms as eccentric. Eccentric, because economic diplomacy does not exhaust diplomacy; eccentric, because economic diplomacy is far from having exhausted its potential; eccentric, because the results speak for itself; eccentric, because today the economy is the continuation of politics by other means. Ladies and gentlemen. Members in just over two years from 2013 to 2015, exports exceeded 40 % of GDP ( gross domestic product ). for the first time, it was possible to have a business plan approved in each embassy, but it was also possible to create a new relationship and a new involvement between embassies, consulates and Portuguese companies. We therefore regret that the Government has a reduced position on the role of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The readaptation of diplomacy to the economy is very important in the country's recovery, and the sooner the Ministry of Foreign Affairs liberates itself from this archaic logic and internalizes the advantages of adding diplomacy to the greater economy, it will be the hypotheses in our future. This future is inevitably due to the success of companies in international markets, their consolidation as alternative producers to imports and of course the geographical capitalisation of Portugal between Europe, the Americas and Africa. It is therefore strange that we have recorded the government's delay in implementing the Internationalisation Programme, announced in June 2016 by the Prime Minister himself. Eight months have passed, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have nothing today! Where is the Internationalize program? Where is the strategic plan of AICEP ( Agency for Foreign Investment and Trade in Portugal) for the next two years? How does the Government intend to ensure the sustainability of exports? How is the government working to attract private investment? How does the government intend to capitalise on national companies? What are the new markets that the Government points to in the diversification of exports? And now, what contribution does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs make to the strategy that follows? It is said, Mr President, that there are no good winds when we do not know where we want to go. Let us hope that the government will definitely go to the game and tell us where it wants to go. After eight months of the political announcement and the Prime Minister's propaganda, we want to believe — we cannot stop doing it — that the government already has some ideas about what it wants to do for the internationalisation programme. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not comply with a growth rate that differs from the European average, which is almost half what was supposed to be and which is much less than what was foreseen in the famous socialist macroeconomic plan. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, today, we can already make a balance sheet of the government's results in 2016, particularly in the evolution of national exports and in the collection of foreign investment. Firstly, it must be said that the Government has given up the export sector. by reviewing the targets for 2020, it has seen all the lack of ambition that it conveys to entrepreneurs and to all those who have the courage to risk and not give up. Secondly, the overall value of exports of goods and services increased only half of what happened in 2015. More: Exports of goods have recorded the lowest annual change since 2009. The same can be said of the slowdown in foreign investment in Portugal, which in 2016 corresponded to half of the variation recorded in 2015. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Third, with your government, your brand, your policies and only your performance, Portugal has fallen eight places in the world ranking of competitiveness compared to 2015. Go ahead, ladies and gentlemen. Members, your government, with your brand, with your policy and only with your performance, gets half of the values obtained by the previous government. To continue this way, I would even say that the word 'half' is at risk of being the word of the year. It will no longer be the word « management », as it was in 2016, but it will be simply the word « half ». A success, therefore, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! All this confirms the responsibility of this majority, of your majority, of the majority sponsored by the Socialist Party, the Left Party, the Portuguese Communist Party and the Greens in creating a situation of blockade, economic slowdown, withdrawal, distrust and uncertainty of economic agents. on the part of the CDS, our obligation is to look at these signals carefully and seek to get the government out of the state of sleep in which it is located. It's time to wake up, Minister! We can't stay in the halves, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The internationalisation of the economy is, and cannot fail to be, a priority. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u222	Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila, the Bureau registered two Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u223	I shall answer together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u224	Mr Carlos Pereira of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u225	Mr President, Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila, first of all I would like to thank you for bringing up a topic as relevant to the Portuguese economy as it is to international trade. I would like to start by telling you that when we talk about international trade and its impact on the Portuguese economy, we are not actually talking about the same thing. The Socialist Party made a difference from what the PSD and CDS did when they were in government. In fact, it is good to remember that when you were in the government you were betting everything, or said that you were betting everything, in external demand and with that you impoverished the country and GDP fell, and it fell down a lot! If you remember what happened in 2012, GDP fell 4 %. If you remember what happened in 2013, GDP fell 1, 1 %. You know, Mr. Member, when did GDP start growing? When you were forced by the Constitutional Court to return income! There, yes, domestic demand began to work and there, yes, GDP began to grow! It was only from that point on that GDP grew! [[P.S.'s applause.]] That's why we're different! We believe, yes, sir, that international trade and foreign demand are fundamental. Let us go and bet on the international trade in a balanced way, but we do not do so obsessively as you did and, in doing so, condemned the growth of wealth and called into question the growth of employment. Mr. Deputies, it is good to say things as they are. The honourable Member spoke here in confidence. True, confidence is one of the main assets for international trade, but he must not have seen the latest statistics because the latest statistics of the economic confidence index in Portugal have recorded the highest value since 2000, I repeat, the highest since 2000. This is not compatible with the speech that you have made in the rostrum! But more: the consumer confidence index in Portugal was the highest in the last 17 years. Mr President, this is not compatible with the speech that you have made on the rostrum. The honourable Member also spoke on exports. By the way, I even have here a chart that shows the last quarters of 2015. Look what was happening to your exports! [[At this point, the speaker showed a chart.]] They were falling! They began to recover with the Government of the Socialist Party. [[Rice from CDS-PP Member Filipe Lobo d’Ávila.]] Don't laugh, Mr. Deputies. This is statistics! If you know what this is: it is statistics! But more, Mr...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u226	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u227	I shall finish, Mr President, by referring to foreign direct investment. The honourable Member also said that foreign direct investment was not growing. It is not true, Mr, and you are not well aware of this intellectual dishonesty. The honourable Member should have said something that is very important: the foreign direct investment in 2016 grew in all sectors, less in one, I repeat, less in one, which was that of information technologies. Do you know why? It was for the sale of the Altice! That is what you have been able to do in terms of international trade: to sell Portuguese assets to waste and to bring problems to the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u228	Mr António Costa Silva, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u229	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila for his excellent presentation here on such an important subject for Portugal and the Portuguese economy. Then it is essential to thank the Portuguese entrepreneurs for their brilliant work during critical periods that we went through in the years of crisis. It was a difficult period that was the result of those who took the country to bankruptcy... [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u230	...of those who, unfortunately, want to hide and pass a sponge about what happened. This is because there is an effective cause for the crisis and those responsible are here right next to us! More: there are also those who support them and who want to pass that sponge! It is also true that the previous government has applied a set of instruments to help companies to internationalize themselves. These instruments were business incentive systems, in particular in the field of competitiveness and internationalisation. It was a very positive time when our exports and our companies had excellent results. They were very positive results, as much as they want to hide them here. What is the management government doing now? He's the ad champion! Announce, announce, but the results are difficult! It brings internationalization, as we have seen, to the tip of the tongue, but what does it do? It misuses the main instruments, misuses incentive systems, particularly in the field of competitiveness and internationalisation. What was demonstrated on 31 December 2016 was that the performance rate of the Competition was 5, 7 %. I repeat: the performance rate of the competency on 31 December 2016 was 5, 7 %! Worse than the homologous period of time of José Socrates, and it was too bad! And now it's serious! It is also clear that this government is lying to itself and you are not doing anything else either! We already know the direction, we know where this is going to stop. The fact is that we have very negative results on the internationalisation of our companies and the instruments that are being applied. Therefore, Mr President, I ask you the following question: you are not concerned about these results, particularly the use of the main instruments for competitiveness and internationalisation, those that support our companies to leave here and to export more and more. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u231	To reply, Mr Filipe Lobo d’Ávila has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u232	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by answering Mr Carlos Pereira, telling him that the PS has done and does different things, and what it does actually does does does not bring us good signs. He said that "things are what they are". Actually, they are. And, in the ranking of competitiveness, Portugal dropped eight places. It is a mark of your government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u233	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u234	Do you want to talk about export results? That's exactly what I went to the rostrum to say. In terms of export growth, we had results that were half — Mr, see, half! — the results of the government to which you called the 'government of troika'. It is an absolutely extraordinary result.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u235	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u236	Foreign investment is half what was achieved in 2015 with the previous government. So, honourable Member, who put the IRC reform in the drawer? Who has lowered the export targets for 2020? It was the Socialist Party, it was this government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u237	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u238	I sincerely thought that the honourable Member would come here to give us some news about the well-known internationalized programme announced by Prime Minister Antonio Costa in June 2016. Eight months have passed and you don't want to know!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u239	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u240	The gentlemen. Members sometimes have three fixations: Pedro Passos Coelho, Assumption Cristas and Paulo Portas. These results have a name. Do you know what it is? Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u241	Exactly! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u242	Mr President, using only to answer Mr António Costa Silva, and thanking him for the questions he has raised, I tell him that we are in fact very concerned about these results, because they demonstrate a fall in sleep, a removal from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which was not seen long ago, and that can only bring us great concerns. We need to capture productive investment, generate sustained employment and bet on the internationalisation of our economy and our companies. We need a Ministry that knows how to live with the economy and knows that it is bringing together the economy and looking to the future that will surely have better results than those we have seen. This path does not bring us anything good, certainly. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u243	To give the last political statement, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u244	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The discussion on the expansion of the network of national airports and, in particular, on the new airport in Lisbon has been taking place over many years, also with the follow-up and contribution of the Assembly of the Republic, in particular in 2007 - 2008. at this time, based on several studies developed, notably by LNEC ( National Laboratory of Civil Engineering ), the options Ota and Portela + 1 were abandoned in their different solutions – Alverca, Montijo, Monte Real, etc. — and opted for the location in the Alcochete Shooting Camp, as being the most valid option for this infrastructure. Ten years ago, when there was an increase in air traffic that went beyond the initial forecasts, not only did no decision take place for the construction of the new airport in Lisbon, as was done at high costs for the national interest, or for the privatization of ANA ( Airports and Air Navigation ), giving it to the French multinational Vinci - who also participates in the consortium exploring the 25 April and Vasco da Gama -, or to the privatization of TAP ( Portuguese Air Transport ), partially delivering it to David Neeleman. The change of EUR 3000 million paid « to the head », which Vinci will have fully recovered in just over 10 years, the PSD/CDS Government has given up the exploitation of national airports for 50 years, thus conditioning the sovereign decision of the country on a strategic infrastructure. As the PCP denounced at the time, the consequences of the privatization of ANA have made it feel negative in the country. The revenues that allowed for decades that the public and profit ANA assumed both investment, or the modernisation of all national airports, began to go directly abroad, in particular for the remuneration of the shareholders of Vinci. In view of the consequences of privatisation of ANA: the increase in airport charges and charges; the significant de-investment in infrastructure; the transformation of airports into a kind of shopping mall, to the detriment of security conditions; the attack on workers' rights—to be told by the workers of the handling and, in particular, by Portway, by the assistants of ports and airports. The phased construction of the new airport at the Alcochete Shooting Camp, whose land is entirely public and allows expansion, is the option that corresponds to a strategic vision for the integrated development of the economy and territory,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u245	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u246	... but we know it's the one who collides with the interests of multinational Vinci, just interested in maximizing their revenues for 50 years at the lowest possible cost. Now, in the face of the repeated decision to ignore the entire strategic evaluation process carried out and fulfill the agenda of multinational Vinci in the option Portela + 1, which was rejected 10 years ago, it is important to discuss the situation of this process and its evolution to date, in view of the commitments made by the previous government, PSD / CDS, and now reaffirmed by the current government. Thus, the PCP Parliamentary Group will require, in the Parliamentary Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works, hearing on investments in airport infrastructure to hear former governors Sergio Monteiro, Antonio Pires de Lima, Maria Luís Albuquerque, to hear the Union of Aviation and Airport Workers and the Association of Airline Pilots, and finally to hear, specifically on this subject, the Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, Pedro Marques. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the options for the national airport network are strategic options for structured development investments and it is a shame that commits or decrees the country's inability to decide sovereignly the strategic options of its development and its future. The country cannot stay for 50 years without airport revenues and, at the end of that period, also without the new airport in Lisbon. The pressure placed in recent years by the significant increase in tourism and air traffic, associated with the constraints that have been present in public investment, should not give rise to hasty decisions that mortgage the development of the country, but rather to the adoption of measures that, in response to the problems of the present, do not compromise the future. For the CFP, the requirement for the recovery of public control of ANA — and also of TAP — whose revenues would support the construction of the new airport in Lisbon also presupposes that the Portuguese State confronts the interests of multinational Vinci. That is what is required of the current government. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u247	Mr Bruno Dias, there are four entries for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u248	Mr President, I will respond first to two Mrs. Members and then two others. Ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u249	All right. To make the first request for clarification, Mr Luís Leite Ramos, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u250	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bruno Dias, first of all, I would like to greet you for bringing to this House such an important issue;...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u251	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u252	... however, I get a little puzzled. The honourable Member has announced that the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party will call a number of people, political leaders, to the Committee on Economic Affairs to discuss this issue. But the honourable Member has a simpler way to discuss this matter in this plenary, which is to make the Government, which you support, comply with the Programme. Do you know what is in the Socialist Party Programme, that your Parliamentary Group has approved? There it is said that the great public works will be approved by a qualified two-thirds majority in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u253	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u254	Why does the honourable Member not require his Government to bring the decision on the construction and expansion of Montijo airport to this House? Do you not think that this is a much easier way, much more darker and more brave way to discuss a subject of this relevance? Or V.Ex. to hide in the parliamentary hearing to say and pretend, as you have done so far, that you discuss the issues, but basically it supports the government? But the government has more matters in its programme. For example, it has the creation of a superior board of public works, which should be evaluating this whole process. He said today that « this is only ahead when we plan the next Community programming cycle». These works, like the expansion of the subway, the harbour investments, don't they count? "No, that's not gonna be right now. Do not keep on seeking. ” The Government also said that it would create a set of entities, including a cost/benefit analysis centre, financial models and legal contracts, which would follow all these processes. But he said more: Dr. António Costa, when he was still a candidate for Prime Minister, said that when he was prime minister he would put in each ministry, with the protection in public works, an auditor of the Public Prosecutor's Office in order to be able to follow all these processes. Therefore, the honourable Member, rather than calling on the Commission all these illustrious rulers, should be demanding that his Government comply with its Programme and bring to this House a serious discussion,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u255	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u256	...a deep discussion on the subject you are invoking. Everything else is a blow of illusion, another fake of the opposition, when you are responsible for the decisions and for this government. Therefore, Mr President, you have an opportunity to show that you really want to do the polling and that you are against the government in this matter. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u257	Now, the discussion will be Montijo versus Alcochete!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u258	The following request for clarification will be made by Mr Luís Testa of the PS Parliamentary Group. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u259	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Bruno Dias brought here an interesting subject and which would be worth discussing was not the case in terms of a diversion maneuver brought by the PSD. [[PSD Members' laughs.]] This is unless, when relevant questions have been asked that have led and chaired the decision of the current government, the PSD has raised nebula on the transparency of the procedures, on the transparency of the decision. I want to recover what Mr Bruno Dias has brought to us and which basically consisted of the justification he chaired for decision-making. It is necessary to have the courage to ignore that the former Government has privatized ANA foreign capital by dishonouring any investment obligation with this privatisation, because it has preferred to receive EUR 3000 million head. Therefore, any discussion put in this House without regard to this option taken by the previous Government is a truncated discussion which does not concern anyone, except the former Government. Are there responsibilities? There are and all of them systematically fall upon them, on those who sold the country retail, exported dividends, exported wealth from the country in exchange for nothing. They have not even managed to negotiate, intelligently, the obligations that the concessionaire should assume before the country. Therefore, Mr Bruno Dias, the question I put to you is basically the following: before the obligation that Portugal is bound to, before the need to build an equipment that supports the sustained growth of passenger reception in airport activity, what is the alternative to the links and ties that the previous Government has left us? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u260	To respond to the two requests for clarification, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u261	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Luís Leite Ramos and Mr Luís Testa, I thank you for the questions you have raised. There is one thing about Mr Luís Leite Ramos' speech, which so far I have not understood and which is very simple: after all, what does the PSD want?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u262	You want them to follow the program!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u263	What does the PSD defend? What is the PSD's intended option? He wants a superior board of public works. All right. He wants an in-depth debate. You want a cost/benefit analysis. So, what about it? [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]] Do you have many explanations to explain to the country about the ruinous business they have made in the previous government, ruinous to the state, for the public interest, for the national economy, and that they have taken with a foreign multinational, and now they come to the Assembly of the Republic saying that they want a cost/benefit analysis? Thank you, Mr. Deputy! So, you did the business that you did, a 50-year grant with a French multinational, tied up the country—after all, what they said at the time was exactly, without taking or putting on, what a great coincidence! What I wanted and what I wanted was the French multinational. It is so curious that the PSD at the time already wanted exactly what the French multinational wanted! ... It's one more of these coincidences, sir! Open... And I would like to draw your attention to this plenary session again—and I believe that I will respond to both of you. Members — for what the CFP has already underlined in the Commission today : is that the first of the fundamental principles of the economic and social organisation is the subordination of economic power to democratic political power, as referred to in Article 80. point ( a ) of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. And the truth is that multinational Vinci, ANA — Airports from Portugal and the administration of ANA are showing power and status and even impunity that are, at least, difficult to accept in democracy. You have signed on behalf of the country a ruinous business for the public interest and for the sovereignty of the country in terms of strategic decisions. This is the truth! [[PCP applause.]] We must have political courage. We must have courage and dignity as a country to refuse these inevitability of these dark business that the previous government has established with multinationals. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u264	Mr Bruno Dias, the honourable Member had three minutes and did not spend them entirely.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u265	Mr President, if that is an invitation to me to continue, I will be delighted to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u266	I always like to hear it, Mr Bruno Dias, as you know.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u267	I shall be at your disposal, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u268	The problem is, like there were two Mrs. Members who asked for clarification and the honourable Member had three minutes to answer, I do not know whether this has been taken into account. That's all I wanted to ask you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u269	Mr President, in that case, I am grateful and, if you will excuse me, I continue to use the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u270	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u271	Mr Luís Moreira Testa, looking at the concession contract, which is an authentic "work of art", signed by those leaders of the PSD and the CDS, the question that arises today is that we, or accept and comply with the pseudo-invitabilities of a government which has given up the national interest and sovereignty of the country, which was the previous government, or we question this matter and we need, among the ways in which it is found and appropriate, to defend the national interest in strategic decisions concerning the airport network as regards the remaining decisions relating to this concession. And from this point of view, there is a concrete need—and from there I have spoken in political courage and in the dignity of a country—of not abdicating its own sovereignty and defending what is fundamental to its options for the future and to the collective interest of the people, the country and our economy. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u272	in the second group of requests for clarification, Mr Hélder Amaral, of the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u273	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bruno Dias, I understand that you have maintained consistency as to what is private investment and what is privatization.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u274	Which private investment? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u275	You do not have the right to call them "dark business" — or it does or cannot say so.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u276	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u277	For a very simple reason: the honourable Member omitted, and should not forget, that he who put in the Memorandum in point 3.31, the privatisation of TAP, the Airports de Portugal, Galp and CP Cargo, were those of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u278	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u279	Who put in the Memorandum that the new airport could only have private capitals were those of the PS. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u280	In fact, he even knows something else. The honourable Member had access, as I had, to the resolution of the Council of Ministers, signed by Eng. José Socrates and Mr. Minister of Finance Teixeira dos Santos. So you know why the third crossing on the Roof was cancelled. It was because the state's financial conditions had been degraded, there was no State financing and the country's debt was enormous. And they also left it written that the privatisations would return to pay the debt. Therefore, the one who created the hole was those masters of the PS and who, unfortunately, had to cover up and solve the issue were the PSD and the CDS. If I had a minimum of intellectual honesty, I would have said that. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Let's go now to the role of the Portuguese Communist Party. As I perceive the discomfort, Mr. Deputies! How different is the Portuguese Communist Party! So nice, so cute! [[CDS-PP and PSD laughter.]] Does the honourable Member not know that the TAP currently has a contract termination process? Is it said that by mutual agreement, in your version of redundancies? And, then, does the CFP see this happen in the TAP, which is evidently public, and does not call the Minister, nor does it want any debate in committee on redundancies in the TAP? Oh, my God! Mr President, do you want me to give you the contact of the union, or the PCP, now ignores the redundancies in the TAP, to such a public company? Oh, my God! After all, what does the administrator with special powers, appointed by the government? The government says it doesn't know anything. Do you ignore this information? Do I now have to warn the PCP that there may be redundancies in the TAP? Oh, my God! That's what we've come to, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u281	You'll be ashamed of the answer!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u282	With regard to the new airport, there is a broad consensus on the need for a complement to the Lisbon airport. We want to maintain the hub of Lisbon, the importance of the airport of Lisbon, the competitiveness of the country in terms of tourism, which grows as you mentioned,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u283	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u284	... and we have serious doubts about some aspects that we want to clarify, as I said today. That is: on environmental impact studies; how will the issue of cargo be solved; who will pay the necessary works to bring the 8 to 10 million passengers who will arrive at Montijo and have to come to Lisbon. That is, everything to protect tourism, to protect the airport of Lisbon.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u285	Mr. Deputies, you have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u286	I'd like you to say what the CFP stands for. If the airport was in Alcochete, did you have the same doubt, or did you have any doubts? That's the question I'm asking you. [[Congrats from the CDS-PP and PSD Member António Costa Silva.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u287	Good question!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u288	Mr Heitor Sousa, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u289	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias, I begin by welcoming your statement on a strategic issue that is worth being made at the seat of the Assembly of the Republic. It is a discussion that will not necessarily be closed today, but which can begin to be addressed today by the various parliamentary groups. We have already had a number of political folklore in which the PSD is eximilar, by trying to reduce things to the appearance of the problem and without really deepening them, and we have already had a number of counterfeiters, which the CDS also like to do, in particular to ‘throw stones’ to the other benches, on the absolutely essential discussion that this issue deserves at the House. Mr Bruno Dias, in his speech, spoke, and well, in the need to call to the House a number of public entities, representatives of professional associations and workers, to discuss this issue, which cannot fail to happen, hearings in favour of which the Left Block will vote. In addition, Mr Bruno Dias, there is another dimension of this issue which is also worth being promoted by the Assembly of the Republic. This is the public discussion with several speakers, several personalities, recovering, for example, the role of the Higher Council of Public Works, which the former Government did the favor of extinguishing in practice.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u290	That's folklore!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u291	The Supreme Council of Public Works was extinguished by the honourable Members of the PSD and the CDS. Therefore, it is indeed surprising that in the midst of a discussion, Mr Luís Leite Ramos invokes a structure which no longer operates by the sole will of the PSD/CDS government. [[Protests by PSD Member Luís Leite Ramos.]] In the context of this public discussion, what I would like to ask the honourable Member is whether he does not think that this discussion and this strategic reflection on a new airport infrastructure in the Lisbon region also deserves a public debate in society, open to those who are not necessarily part of this House and who can discuss in public forums this issue that is of the greatest strategic relevance to the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u292	To reply, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor. You have 3 minutes, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u293	Thank you very much, Mr President. I should like to begin by thanking the questions put by the honourable Members. Hélder Amaral and Heitor Sousa. One observation that can only be made is that of the interventions made so far in this debate, in plenary, there is one matter that is evidenced: whether the PSD or the CDS, the less they talk about airports, the better. They avoid talking about it and « flee from it as the Devil of the cross ». [[PSD protests.]] And they have even talked about matters on which the CFP has made demands and promoted hearings in the Commission that Mr Hélder Amaral is president, which he has evidently forgotten.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u294	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u295	So we already realize that it's worth less talking about the things that are brought here. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Hélder Amaral.]] Mr President, the first hearings that the Commission, which you are presiding over, made in this Parliament, were exactly on the subject that you accuse us of not talking about. It is true that the privatisation of ANA — Airports in Portugal was a proposal from the PS, several years ago. But don't tell us the CDS is sorry. They do not tell us that they have now come to the conclusion that everything they have done has not contradicted us. Those EUR 3 billion, in fact correcting, those EUR 24 billion that were paid, because the rest was a debt transition; that million business for the French multinational Vinci and ruinous for the Portuguese State, which has, in fact, transformed the payment of dividends into provisions in relation to a debt that has been artificially created with the mother's house, the multinational in France; the situation that was created by the business, with the increases in airport rates and the increases in tariffs; the situation that has been created to users, passengers, finally, all that has been found to date, in which the growth of the airport movement has been indexed to the airport rates and to the payment that is being made more and more high than is being done; the million revenues that are being paid to that multinational, in a context where the investment has passed on the airport network, of EUR 126 million, in 2008, EUR 146, EUR 5 million, in 2009 and EUR 4 million for the euro, and EUR 4 billion for the euro, and EUR 4 billion for the loan, and EUR 117 million for the euro, and EUR 43 million for the net, and EUR 43 million for the net, and EUR 43, and EUR 4, You want to call him what? Oh, my God! A brilliant negotiation for the national interest? Oh, my God! Of course, what today needs to be called into question and put on the table is precisely the need to defend the public interest before this ruinous business that was the privatization of ANA — Airports of Portugal, but also of TAP. That's why we have to have a discussion that takes into account the conclusions reached in the next studies...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u296	And if the multinational goes to Alcochete, okay? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u297	... and in the technical assessments that are now, by the way, ignored, which, as the CDS and PSD will say, do not matter at all. In fact, what the LNEC came here to show in 2007 and 2008 the debates that have been held, the conclusions that have been reached, by the way, go all to the basket of papers, because now we have a multinational that sends more than the government of a sovereign country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u298	What if the multinationals go to Alcochete, you got it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u299	That's what we can't accept, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The debate that we will certainly have in the Parliamentary Commission, and not only will there be many questions to address, and many clarifications will have to be given by the former governors who have put the country in this situation and by the current rulers who also have to respond to the options that are being taken today. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u300	Having completed the political statements, we move to the following point, which is based on the assessment of petition No 105 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — They intend to create the National Day of Anemia ( AWGP — Anemia Working Group Portugal ). Mr António Sales of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u301	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the 4521 petitioners who have subscribed to this petition and whose aim, in order to create a national day of anemia, is to raise awareness of the Portuguese society, parties and personalities, doctors, institutional, governmental and regulatory entities, health institutions and citizens in general for the need to dimension the problem at national level, setting out factors and adapting an interventional strategy that allows to find solutions to the problem of anemia from a comprehensive perspective. Anaemia is defined by the World Health Organization (WHO) as the condition in which the hemoglobin content in the blood is below normal, as a result of the lack of one or more essential nutrients, whatever the cause of this deficiency. It can also be defined as the inability of blood to transport oxygen and may have various causes and consequences. They all produce symptoms such as fatigue, tiredness, lack of air or decreased ability to practice physical exercise, these symptoms that, due to the increasingly demanding routines of our day to day, may pass completely unnoticed. The prevalence rate in Portugal is about 20 % — one in five Portuguese is affected — twice the average of the developed countries. About 84 % of the affected persons do not know how to have anaemia and only 2 % receives some form of treatment. This scenario is a public health problem, reproducing an alarming situation that has as its roots the underdiagnosis, undertreatment and lack of knowledge. in a society already weakened by years of crisis and structurally conditioning factors it is urgent to reverse a situation whose social and economic impact acquires weight and importance: social impact with impairment in quality of life and involvement in labour and family life; economic impact on labour productivity and absenteeism; psychological impact on the daily activity of a society already affected by low self-esteem, unemployment and weak economic growth. Faced with years of austerity, the prevalence and incidence of anemia would have to be accentuated. The years 2016 and 2017 will have to be an engine for the reversal of this trend, in view of recent years, which have deepened inequalities, limited opportunities and accentuated the social determinants that have aggravated this and other diseases. in a context of anemic economic growth, with very low work incomes, poverty and unemployment at high levels, it is urgent to mobilize a suprapartary consensus capable of implementing a national screening strategy and clinical guidance standards that introduce a new paradigm in the overall approach of this disease, based on public debate, concerted in early diagnosis and treatment and supported in the literacy and awareness of civil society.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u302	I ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u303	I will finish now, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Anemia is a silent disease. It is necessary to give you voice, listen to your symptoms and give you the importance that your condition deserves. We therefore thank the honourable Members. Petitioners have the opportunity to bring us this subject for discussion. The Assembly of the Republic will certainly use all the mechanisms at its disposal to disseminate this disease to society, combating and reducing its effects. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u304	I now give the floor to Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u305	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to begin by greeting the petitioners, who claim the creation of the National Anemia Day. We welcome the citizenship initiative, because this issue of anemia is effectively relevant, both because of its prevalence and because of the impact on the quality of life of the patients. This is a real public health problem, which requires the intervention of several entities and the commitment of all. There is a demand for awareness of the general population and greater training and awareness of health professionals on this subject and its real implications and forms of prevention and treatment. Without underestimating the possible creation of Anemia National Day, we understand that the fundamental thing is to adopt consistent and articulated measures, in a national strategy for the problem. The Ministry of Health should be on the front line and actively participate in the search for concrete answers to improve this situation and in the provision of effective means that effectively facilitate the ability of professionals to help people with anemia. The CDS will follow this theme and will make its best active contribution to improving the quality of life of so many Portuguese people affected by a condition that we are not indifferent to. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u306	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u307	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, of course, I would like to congratulate and greet the more than 4000 petitioners and, if I may, the Portuguese Association for the Study of Anemia in particular, for providing this debate in plenary and also for all the work they do and will certainly continue to do about raising awareness about this problem, for this disease, as well as for all the work they have done on anemia. It is, in fact, through much of the work of the Portuguese Association for the Study of Anemia that we are allowed to know many of the data about the prevalence and consequences of this disease in Portugal today. Thus, its prevalence in Portugal is 20%, more than twice the average in comparable countries, it is estimated that 90% of anemia is caused by iron deficiency, that 84% of people with anaemia do not know to have the disease and that only 2% of the Portuguese population receive treatment. This data is of the greatest importance because it enables us to know the reality, of course, but we should also deserve a lot of concern. First of all, we should be concerned about its high prevalence, which, it should be recalled, is more than twice the average of the comparable countries, i.e. countries with more or less the same economic and social situation. If in other countries the average prevalence is 9 %, in Portugal it is 20 %, and therefore we must act and certainly intervene in the causes. And to intervene in the causes is to intervene in the policies of disease prevention, active surveillance policies, very around primary health care, and certainly also in the issues related to diet, lifestyles and routines of our daily lives. But there are other data that concern us, essentially because they demonstrate that there is a subdiagnosis and undertreatment of people who have anemia, which means that there are many people who have been suffering from this disease for many years, have the symptoms of this disease and have no treatment whatsoever. from this point of view, we certainly follow what is the concern of petitioners with the need to sensitize the population in general to combat causes, identify symptoms and facilitate diagnosis and treatment. from the Left Block, we express all the willingness to discuss, work and advance with measures to strengthen disease prevention, health promotion, surveillance and best diagnoses and treatments for all patients with anemia. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u308	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u309	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, the more than 4500 subscribers to this petition and also the Portuguese Association for the Study of Anemia, which has dynamized it and that, in fact, throughout its existence has done studies that allow us to have more knowledge about this disease today, the Portuguese that are affected by it and the need to be taken action to, in fact, if necessary and to control this situation. As has already been said, anemia affects about 20% of the Portuguese population, so it is effectively a public health problem. But it is not enough to say that 20 % of the population has anemia, it is important to say that 84% of the population do not even know that they suffer from this problem and — no matter how much! — only 2 % receive treatment. These numbers should alert us and call upon us to take urgent action to intervene in a systematic and timely manner in this problem. As the petitioners say in their text, there are indeed very significant impacts of the disease, both on a social and an economic level. With regard to social impacts, there is a great commitment to quality of life, mental and physical availability, and, if not treated, anemia can even lead to aggravation of other health problems, such as heart failure. The petitioners also warn of the existence of a subdiagnosis and subtreatment, a reality, in fact, that the above data prove. There is also another warning that we are left here and that goes even in the sense of petition. This alert concerns the need to raise awareness and increase knowledge not only of professionals but also of the population itself, because there are symptoms of anemia, such as mental fatigue, feeling tired, irritation, dizziness, loss of concentration, reduction of physical abilities, which are often confused with other diseases, especially from the psychological forum, and which probably lead to this subdiagnosis of anemia. It is therefore also necessary to work at this level to raise the awareness of the population and the medical community and to raise public awareness of the importance of action to this problem. This is, in the understanding of the CFP, another very important aspect for an early intervention in this problem. Given the unequivocal importance of this problem, which is the subject of this petition, the CFP understands that it should deserve the greatest attention of political decision makers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u310	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u311	I'm really finishing up, Mr. President. Therefore, because it is a public health problem, it should be viewed and integrated in public health policy and therefore the practice of early diagnosis and adequate medical and therapeutic follow-up should be instituted. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u312	The last intervention on this petition will be made by Mr José António Silva. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u313	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the promoters of the petition signed by 4521 petitioners, who seek the creation of the National Day of Anemia. This petition was prompted by Anemia Working Group Portugal, either the Portuguese Association for the Study of Anemia, and was submitted to the Assembly of the Republic following the outcome of an epidemiological study carried out by the said Group, in which 7900 people were surveyed. This study points to a prevalence of disease, classified as a public health problem, because it reveals that there is an incidence in 20% of the Portuguese population, of which 84% do not know that they suffer from the disease. Thus, petitioners considered that the definition of a specific day to address this pathology is an essential tool to reduce the incidence rate of anemia in the Portuguese population, but also, also, it is a way of consciousizing for this problem the population, who, regardless of age, should use the physician for an early diagnosis of the disease. The World Health Organization has international days aimed at various situations of disease, not being disclosed any commemoration held as International Anemia Day. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Anemia is sometimes confused with other pathologies, often leading to a compromise of the quality of life of the population, with negative implications for employment and family life. The Anemia Working Group Portugal is a non-profit group, consisting of physicians of several specialties with scientific independence, whose main aim is to position anemia on the platform of the importance it has as its own clinical entity and the impact it has on the context of other diseases. It should also be noted that, when consulted by the Government on the petition in the presence, the Ministry of Health replied that the creation of National Anemia Day could be justified as a way to alert the general population to the symptoms of the disease, as well as to the therapeutic interventions available. in this context, and also looking like the PSD that it is important to sensitize health professionals to the importance of early diagnosis of anemia, we also understand that the creation of the Anemia National Day should be considered as a serious possibility, in the context of the policy of defining national days that the State should pursue. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u314	Thus, the assessment of petition No 105 / XIII ( 1 ) was completed. ( a). of the last item on the agenda is the assessment of petition No 271 / XII ( 2. ( a ) — The dismissal of the external trainers of the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training ( Rui Miguel Bartolomeu May and others). You have the floor, Mr. Ricardo Bexiga, for the first time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u315	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, I would like to greet, in the person of Dr. Rui Miguel Bartolomeu May, the more than 5000 subscribers of this petition. The petition arises about the competition for recruitment and selection of trainers for the development of vocational training courses at the IEFP ( Institute for Employment and Vocational Training ), held in December 2012. They then asked the petitioners to appreciate the conditions under which this procedure was launched, which resulted in the exclusion of several external IEFP trainers who have long been at the service of employment and vocational training centres. In 2017, this Assembly cannot intervene in a procedure for recruiting trainers that took place in 2012. But it is worth noting that this incapacity resulted from the fact that the previous government, before numerous requests from this House, in particular in 2013 and 2014, was appointed to respond to this House only in 2015 with a set of explanations which have explained nothing and which have even motivated Mr. Ombudsman, as a result of his participation. The applicant declared this tender null and void, saying that it presented a set of irregularities, namely the violation of the principle of equal treatment of all those to whom it could compete. But if we cannot intervene today in the regularization of this 2012 procedure, we can certainly intervene in order to prevent unfair situations like these, which have to do with the precarious work of IEFP trainers, from repeating themselves. In fact, we cannot allow António José, the trainer of the IEFP, who for five years performed his duties with a schedule, with a salary, with a hierarchy, before a true employment relationship, to be, at the end of these five years, purely and simply forgotten by his employer, not only taking into account the stability of his professional career but also the means for him to survive, from a personal and family point of view. The State must act as a good person and comply with the existing law. It cannot hide true labor relations behind mechanisms such as green receipts or other working mechanisms and instruments. The State must organise a genuine human resources management policy that ensures the quality of public services, which takes into account the interests of citizens and which at the same time guarantees the dignity and value of the human resources of the Public Administration and the business sector of the State. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group supports the initiative already submitted by the Government to the end of 1. the quarter of 2017, is completed the installation of the program of extraordinary regularization of the precarious links of the Public Administration ( PREVAP ) and the business sector of the state, because it will respond to this triple need: efficiency of public services, end of precariousness in the Public Administration and guarantee the valorization of the work of workers of the public service. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u316	For an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u317	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners and at the same time regret that this petition is only now discussed, three and a half years after their entry. The petition was motivated by what they meant to call "the dismissal of external trainers of the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training" and which they contest. I want to begin by saying that the CDS has the greatest respect for the trainers of the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training and that it has carefully analysed the foundation of the petition. The fact is that what they considered to be a dismissal of 1000 trainers resulted from the opening of an invitation to tender for their contract—it is true that under a protocol between the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Education—and they asked the Assembly of the Republic to use the mechanisms at its disposal to assess the conditions under which the invitation to tender was launched. However, in the specific case, the Assembly questioned the Government on this matter and, on the basis of the answers, it is possible to conclude the following: first, in the selection of trainers, the competition allowed, instead of discretionary in its hiring, to have more transparency, more fairness and more stability; and second, it was found that the trainers were not harmed. This is because 22 000 people competed for 920 vacancies, 900 trainers and only 20 teachers were placed. And that was the question that was underlying the petition. And it does not appear that the alleged short-term deadline for competition had affected the trainers. In conclusion, there were clear advantages in the existence of a contract for the contract and there was no dismissal of the 1000 trainers, as feared by the petitioners. And it is important not to forget the ultimate goal, which are the trainers: improving the results of their learning and their employability is fundamental and now doing so with the greatest rigour in public spending. As we speak in trainers of the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training, it was important to know whether the majority left—PS, Left Block and PCP—is already understood in relation to the trainers of the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u318	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u319	After all, they're precarious and they're going to be integrated by the government or not? So far, we have no clear answers, contrary to what Mr. Ricardo Bexiga has said. [[That's right! Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u320	On the other hand, it was good for us to know what the government will do to assess the goodness of your intentions. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u321	Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u322	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The petition we are discussing today is almost four years old. It is regrettable that the former Government has drawn up the process, making Parliament so long to schedule it! But don't stop being curious... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Yes, yes! They've broken the process with no answers... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u323	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u324	The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you're nervous, but it's true! As I was saying, the moment when we are making this discussion is no longer curious, because now the political cycle has changed and the debate is made in other ways. During the last 15 years — a little more — IEFP workers, like so many other State precariouss, have been mistreated by those who employed them. In 2013, and it happened again later, more than 1 thousand precarious workers of the PSI were dispatched to unemployment, many of them without any protection, because they worked at false green receipts.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u325	Now there are no more fake green receipts? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u326	They worked for the State, trained the unemployed, represented the PSI in protective committees of children and young people, looked at the Institute, guaranteed permanent needs, performed their duties with zeal and dedication, and the State, on the other hand, never recognized its bond and, before workers who have always served its part, did not act with zeal, nor with respect, even within the law. at the beginning of 2016, the Bloc called on the government on this issue, defending what was obvious, the need to regularize this situation and recognize the link to the IEFP. In March 2016, the State Budget provided for the lifting of the reality of State precariouss and, on 16 December 2016, the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic adopted a resolution, proposed by the Left Block, which determined that the Government should replace green receipts by contracts in the IEFP, and prevent the next contests from resorting to this shameful scheme. This week the resolution of the Council of Ministers was published to launch the extraordinary regularisation programme for the precarious links of the Public Administration, which resulted from intense negotiations with the left and which welcomed its main concerns, so that justice would finally begin. If in the past, in this Parliament we are discussing dismissals and perpetuation of precariousness, today we are discussing how to do justice to these workers and acknowledge their work. And what we tell everyone and each one of these workers is that this process and its scope depend on the mobilization and capacity of the precariouss themselves to take the floor. We have already obtained some important guarantees in this process: everyone who wants can require that their situation be assessed. Those who were out of the diagnosis can now integrate the regularization process and have fallen the criterion, absurd, from the full time. Now, in each body and in each institution, it is necessary for the poor to say of their justice and to organize themselves to enforce their rights. Don't wait, make it happen. In all this and for all this count and count with us. This fight is only at the beginning, no one can be left out. No one is asking for more than recognition and decency.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u327	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u328	That is what it is about recognition and decency. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u329	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u330	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u331	Mr President, for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u332	Whatever it is, Mr. Deputies. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u333	That will be the case, Mr President. in the previous intervention, Mr. Member of the Left Block said that the previous Government, for various reasons, made this petition not scheduled for discussion in plenary. Mr President, I would like to ask you to inform Mr. Member of the Left Block on whom petitions are scheduled at the Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u334	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u335	In other words, if the Government has a word to say on the agenda of petitions at the Conference and if it is, or not, a decision of the parliamentary groups in the Conference of Leaders. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u336	The honourable Member, like all the members of the House, knows the answer to these questions, it is not worth it for me to be doing so.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u337	No, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u338	Continuing the work, you have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Sandra Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u339	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the PSD parliamentary group, I would like to congratulate the 5015 petitioners who addressed the Assembly of the Republic in order to defend their interests and also to express my regret that the Assembly of the Republic has not given them an answer in due course. First of all, I remember Mr Ricardo Bexiga, Member of the Socialist Party, that, if this petition has not been discussed yet, it was because of his bench, to whom it is distributed ab initio. [[All right! Well remembered!]] [[All right! Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u340	After all, it wasn't the previous government!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u341	Mr President, the petition we are discussing here today has passed from the previous Parliament and refers to the alleged dismissal of IEFP trainers as a result of the opening of a recruitment and selection of trainers. Mr President, what has been discussed was to establish a competitive procedure to fill vacancies in external trainers with the aim of promoting unity, transparency and equity, which are fundamental principles that must always preside over public procurement and recruitment and selection. [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] Until the launch of this competition, all trainers were hired directly by the local organic units, in accordance with the law, it is true, but objectively restricting the competitive opportunities of potential candidates. We are convinced that the adoption of this procedure significantly increased the universe of competitors. And we believe that this path that we followed was right, since the current government followed the same path and for the same purpose opened similar procedure for 2016 and 2017.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u342	All right! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u343	E, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not remember talking about unemployment and precariousness here.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u344	Very well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u345	Mr. Ricardo Bexiga came here to talk about the end of the precariousness. The honourable Member should be distracted or, then, should not be in line with his Minister for Social Security, who, in response to an exact question from the Left Block, said that it stems from the organisational objectives of the training activities promoted by the IEFP that training has curricular plans and programmatic contents of significant specificity with very variable time loads and with flexibility that enables them to be adjusted to the needs and perspectives of economic and employment developments. Moreover, his Ministry of Labour said that a possible crystallization of the offer of the National Qualifications System — risk, in fact, often pointed — would remove vocational training from its fundamental and original mission. It is in this framework that, in view of its characteristics as an activity and system, vocational training is mainly developed by means of service provision contracts and this has always been the framework — I repeat, Mr President! — used by the IEFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u346	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u347	So this was the line that the current government continued, similar to the line that the previous government had already in mind. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u348	She's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u349	For the last intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u350	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, I would like to greet the petitioners for the dynamisation of this initiative. Listening to Mr. Deputy of the CDS Antonio Carlos Monteiro say that the CDS has so much respect for the trainers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u351	And he makes contests!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u352	... I recall that at this time the Minister was from the CDS and that for three years did not respond to the Assembly of the Republic exactly what we are discussing in 2017, the petition on the situation of IEFP trainers. [[PCP applause.]] It is true that there was no dismissal, in the sense that it was not a formal dismissal, because these workers did not have a contract and because, since the 1990s, the IEFP and successive governments have shaped their policy in hiring trainers or through term contracts, or through false green receipts. But it doesn't stop being curious that Mrs Sandra Pereira of the CDS has read... [[It's not CDS, it's PSD!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u353	I'm sorry, about the PSD... but it's almost the same thing in the days that run! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] As I was saying, it does not stop being curious that Mrs Sandra Pereira of the PSD has read the answer... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] It seems that today, calling the CDS to PSD is an insult when, for four years, you have been in the government sharing this policy, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! The fact is that it is still curious that the honourable Member, when she read the reply from the previous Government, has not read only the most important point of that reply. It is that the most important point of the previous Government's reply, point ( d ), on the objective of the tendering of trainers, said that one of the objectives was only to reduce public expenditure through the mobility of teachers available within the Ministry of Education and Science. Well, Mr Sandra Pereira: I read all the points except what the previous government's intention was to hire trainers and teachers, with zero hours, in the frameworks of the Ministry of Education. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member António Carlos Monteiro.]] Mr President, on this point, I want to say that we understand that it is unacceptable that since the 1990s the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training has not had a stable staff framework that guarantees the permanent needs of the public employment system. We understand and recognize that there are training needs that can be transitional, but, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the overall situation is permanent. For this reason we believe that a permanent job must correspond to an effective bond, so we have worked in this direction so that, within the ongoing process of regularization, we can link the workers of the IEFP, trainers and others, who respond to the permanent needs of the IEFP. We do - it counts the will of the PSD and the CDS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u354	And the PS, right now!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u355	... but we do so with the conviction that this is an indispensable way to the appreciation of trainers, of vocational training and of the quality of training that is done. Mrs. Members of the PSD and CDS — and here I can say both PSD and CDS, because the truth is that the policy in vocational training is the same — there is a need for a stable framework in the IEFP of trainers to ensure the quality of training. And this is a commitment that the CFP here assumes and is a commitment that the trainers have carried out in the various endeavours they have made in the Assembly of the Republic and that we understand that, once and for all, they must be met, not as in 2011, 2012 and 2013, but as it will be, because it is a question of dignity at work and it is that commitment we are bound to. [[PCP, Os Verdes and BE Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-01.u356	We have thus exhausted our order of business. Tomorrow, the plenary session will be held at 3 p.m. and the agenda will include a discussion of various initiatives. First, there will be an urgent debate required by the Greens Ecological Party on protected areas classified. Secondly, the projects of lein.o 346 / XIII ( 2 ) will be evaluated together. ( a ) — Integrates the representation of the National Council for Youth in the Economic and Social Council by amending Law No 108 / 91 of 17 August ( PSD ), 414 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Alter to Law No 108 / 91 of 17 August governing the Economic and Social Council ( PSD ), 415 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Includes representatives of pensioners and pensioners in the Economic and Social Council, amending Law No 108 / 91 of 17 August ( PSD ), 138 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Includes representatives of pensioners and pensioners in the Economic and Social Council ( amendment to Law No 108 / 91 of 17 August ) ( BE), 417 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Sixth Amendment to Law No 108 / 91 of 17 August, Law of the Economic and Social Council, in order to include in plenary two representatives of the National Council for Youth ( CDS-PP ) and 425 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The seventh amendment is made to Law No 108 / 91 of 17 August governing the Economic and Social Council ( PS ). Thirdly, joint debate will be on draft resolutions 657 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by the urgent requalification of the Basic School of the 2. o is 3. the High Cycles of Lumiar ( PS ), 508 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake urgent intervention at the Basic School 2, 3 of the Upper Lumiar, in Lisbon ( CDS-PP ), 550 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government initiate the necessary mechanisms for the construction of the new school EB 2 / 3 of the Alto do Lumiar ( PCP ), 613 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government an urgent solution to the Basic School 2, 3 of the Upper Lumiar, in Lisbon ( The Greens ) and 684 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Urgent requalification of the Basic School 2, 3 of the Upper Lumiar, in Lisbon ( BE ). Fourthly, the projects of lein.o 326 / XIII ( 2 ) will be discussed together. ( a ) — Measures for social support to mothers and parents students, assigning to parents the same set of rights granted to pregnant women and mothers ( first amendment to Law No 90 / 2001 of 20 August ) ( BE), 423 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Measures for social support to mothers and parents students ( first amendment to Law No 90 / 2001 of 20 August ) ( PCP ) and 424 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter to Law No 90 / 2001 of 20 August 2001 laying down social support measures for mothers and parents students ( NAP ). Finally, draft resolution No 586 / XIII ( 2 ) will be appreciated. ( a ) — The ratification by the Portuguese State of the United Nations International Convention on the Protection of the Rights of All Migrant Workers and Members of Their Families ( adopted by Resolution No 45 / 158 of the General Assembly of 18 December 1990 ). Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 57 minutes.]]
