ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-11.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, I declare open the session. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] The galleries are already open, so it is not necessary to give permission to do so. on the agenda for today is the Evocative Session of the Former President of the Mário Soares. In view of the fact that this is a parliamentary session, the Secretary will proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-11.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, the following legislative initiatives: projects of lein.o 367 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates the legal regime of the former municipal councils ( PSD ), 368 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amending Decree-Law No 57 / 2016 — The first amendment to Decree-Law No 57 / 2016 of 29 August giving greater justice and correcting incentives to agents covered by Article 23. o ( Transitional Standard ) ( CDS-PP ), 369 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amend the Labour Code, establishing the Third Carnival Fair as a compulsory national holiday ( NAP) and 370 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Reposition of the right to a minimum of 25 holiday days in the civil service increased by age up to 28 days ( BE ), and draft resolutions 601 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends the establishment of an emergency response plan at the Almaraz ( BE ) nuclear power plant, which falls to 11. the Commission, 602 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government combat school dropout in higher education ( PSD ), which falls to 8. The Commission, 603 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by the rejection of free trade and services agreements, including the Global Economic and Trade Agreement ( CETA ) between the European Union and Canada ( CFP ), 604 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Negotiation into social consultation of guiding principles for specific legislation in order to define which holidays to be observed on Monday of the following week ( PSD ), 605 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote, together with institutions of higher education in the field of health, the inclusion of pain and geriatrics in their curricula ( PSD ), 606 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government promote an extended debate with civil society and non-governmental organizations on the impact of CETA in Portugal and Europe ( PAN ), 607 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent replacement of four carriages on the green line of the underground of Lisbon ( The Greens ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 608 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — by rejecting the Global Economic and Trade Agreement — CETA ( European Union-Canada ) and by creating guarantees of transparency and democratic participation ( BE) and 609 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the allocation of financial support to forest producers ( BE ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-11.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. Let us therefore turn to the agenda, which is contained in the Evocative Session of the Former President of the Mário Soares Republic. It is clear to me that, as a personal friend of Mário Soares, this is a session with particular tension and emotion, so I would like to stress, before passing to the reading of the vote of sorrow, the ties that have always joined me to Mário Soares, especially in recent decades, the longings, solidarity for his family and the fact that Mário Soares, together with the young officers of the Captains' Movement, is responsible for the democratic situation that we are living today and for the existence of this democratic Parliament. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall proceed to the reading of vote No 194 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — In spite of the death of Mário Soares ( President of the HR and Vice-Presidents and Secretaries of the Bureau ). [[At this point, the President has risen.]] The voting shall be as follows: « It is with deep regret that the Assembly of the Republic marks the death of Mário Soares. With his disappearance, he robs us of a sense of loss, but the example remains. Your brand is too big to be forgotten. in it will find the new generations the strength and inspiration to overcome the challenges and give continuity to their impressive legacy, a legacy of political courage, democratic patriotism and openness to the world. Mário Soares has long embraced politics as a vocation. As a young lawyer, he stood out for the defense of several political prisoners. The courageous activities of opposition to the dictatorship, already carried out alongside Mary of Jesus Barroso, were worth him imprisonment, deportation and exile. The life motto of Mário Soares was always the same: “it’s only defeated that you give up fighting.” In 1996 it had already been all: Minister, Prime Minister, President of the Republic. And he had his place in history. However, paying attention to the trends of each historical and curious moment in relation to the new generations, it preferred to continue to fight and think about the future. He fought to the end and thus leaves us an example of political citizenship. If politics was the vocation of Mário Soares, freedom was its cause. Mário Soares had the intuition of the great politicians and the vision of the great statesmen. He anticipated the great movements of his time and thus benefited the country, which thus better positioned itself in the face of the challenges of history. He was anti-fascist during the dictatorship and anti-colonist when the dictatorship was said to be “proudly alone”. From the time of his arrival to St.Apolónia, in the “freedom train”, he never lost sight of what was, for himself, the essential. He always tried to lead the events and the whole country finally caught the “freedom train”. As a Member of the Constituent Assembly and the Assembly of the Republic, Parliamentism and parliamentary activity were honored. as Prime Minister, he left the foundations of the social state and the accession to the then European Economic Community. He was President of the Republic between 1986 and 1996. in this quality, prestigious the Portuguese state and influenced the understanding that we have today of the presidential position. The democratic, tolerant and supportive Portugal, and the country of the sea, European and open to the world, is the country of Mário Soares. This is recognized by the Portuguese and the friendly and allied countries of Portugal, as we have witnessed throughout these days. Mário Soares was a Portuguese Democrat and, in this sense, a citizen open to the world. The Socialist Party, a structural force of Portuguese democracy, of which was militant No. 1, was still founded during its exile. As Secretary-General of the PS, Mário Soares was an influential leader of the Socialist International, which would contribute significantly to the success of Portuguese democratization and European integration in Portugal. But even as Secretary-General of the PS, he did not hesitate to stay almost alone to defend his thoughts about Portugal and democracy. in the Presidency of the Republic he was attentive to social movements and open to the world of ideas and culture, with which he always had genuine complicity. He made mistakes, certainly, but he always understood democratic politics as a passionate activity, made of victories but also defeats, based on clear choices and strong convictions. They were all by his side and against him. at the same time, everyone recognizes his loyalty to his opponents and his tolerance with the difference. He was secular, Republican and socialist and, at the same time, chaired the Committee on Religious Freedom, because he always understood pluralism as a greater value. His example of tolerance helped the country to unite and reconcile itself after the tensions of a long dictatorship and the revolutionary period that followed it. If Portugal today distinguishes itself in Europe and in the world by its degree of national cohesion it owes it to the leading contribution of Mário Soares. The feeling of loss is thus accompanied by a feeling of eternal gratitude. Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic notes with sadness its death, transmitting to the children, Isabel Soares and João Soares, Member of the Assembly of the Republic, his family and the whole Socialist Party the most painful. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs. Members, you now have the floor, on behalf of the Government, Mr Foreign Minister Augusto Santos Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-11.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Men and women are free and equal in human rights and human rights constitute the very foundation of society, rights are multiple and interdependent, with regard to personal freedoms and guarantees, civil and political rights and economic, social and cultural rights. Life, human dignity, free expression of ideas and beliefs, the protection of law and access to justice, free association and participation, citizenship on the side of people and social organization, popular sovereignty, the rule of law, separation and interdependence of powers, free and fair elections, the transitory of political functions, the free press and the administration of justice represent the minimum conditions for society to be strong and the state to be governed by law. There are rights that the State must respect, such as religious freedom, and others whose realization implies active promotion by the State, such as social rights. And they must all be harmoniously considered indivisible, as they are. Democracy is the political form that allows the institutionalization of the society that we form, in a political community where we can all feel represented and that we can all feel involved. Democracy is the expression of popular will through free and fair periodic elections, it is the scrutiny of governance by Parliament, by the press and by civil society, it is the possibility of moving governments away by peaceful means, it is respect for pluralism and the protection of minorities. Democracy is also the best institutional framework for the promotion of citizenship and social development, preventing discrimination, promoting the realization of rights and providing the satisfaction of people's aspirations to work and to well-being, education, the environment and culture. It is the defence of common goods and the collective interest against private interests, the prevalence of political power over economic powers and the regulation of markets by public institutions. It is the virtuous link between, on the one hand, the freedom of initiative and exchange and, on the other hand, the relations of work, collective bargaining and social dialogue, the distribution of income and equal opportunities, the preservation of the environment and heritage, the promotion of employment and social security. Europe is the present and the destination of Portugal, the reunion of Portugal with itself and its global vocation. European democracy and integration mean, in practice, the same thing, because we want our democracy linked to the European social model, that is, committed to development, modernization and combating inequalities. We are therefore active participants in European construction, which we understand as the best guarantee for peace among nations and for the joint affirmation of a progressive role of Europe in the world. Democracy is a struggle, it requires permanent commitment to values and constant action in its favour. Founding democracy required fighting against dictatorship, promoting cooperation among Portuguese-speaking peoples required breaking with the colonial past and neocolonial temptation. Defending freedom requires refusing intolerance and exclusion; building Europe requires facing the rise of nationalism and populism and beating against hatred; being patriot requires affirming the inalienable right to be our destiny in accordance with our Constitution and our laws. Politics is a noble and indispensable public function and the primacy of politics is a necessary condition of democracy. There is no democracy without solid and respected institutions, representative parliaments, political parties and social forces, intense debate, tolerance and mutual recognition, and it is about pluralism and diversity that arise, in democracy, identity and national unity. Freedom is, in itself, the value first, which gives full meaning to equality and fraternity. The freedom to be, to think, to speak and to act; freedom of expression, assembly and association; religious freedom; freedom of the press; freedom of union; tolerant freedom; the right to dissent and rebellion against orthodoxy, the owners of truth and the police of thought; freedom to go against the current and be uncomfortable. In short, without reservations or pretenses: freedom! To develop Portugal it is necessary to know Portugal and Portuguese, to study its history, to cultivate its literature, to cherish its artists, to travel the territory and to live with people, to place Portugal in Europe and in the world and not to fear opening Portugal to the world, on the contrary to combat isolationism and obscurantism. It is necessary to love the people and to make the improvement of their condition the commitment of every day. This taught us Mário Soares, and that's why we owe him so much. from the bottom of the heart, thank you, Mário Soares! [[Congratulations from the PS, PSD and PAN Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-11.u5	Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-11.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal has lost one of the most striking political figures of the 20th and 21st centuries. The History of Portugal of the second half of the 20th century is the story of Mário Soares, either in opposition to the dictatorship or in the post-25th April. His struggle for democratic ideals began during the dictatorship period of the New State, having defended the social state with lightning and passion already after the Revolution of 25 April, and having won, with merit, the respect of all, even of its political opponents. Mário Soares is a unique figure in Portuguese and European history. Human rights defender, combatant against the dictatorship of the New State, defender of pluralist democracy, party leader with international projection, several times Prime Minister, one of the main architects of Portugal's entry into the European Economic Community and President of the Republic. Often controversial, it was an inconformity, always with strong convictions and a great sense of mission for the country and Europe. We also know that we had a clear notion that Portuguese society is a collective in constant movement, with critical thinking, with wills, with feelings, connected with the world and historically and emotionally dependent on that same interconnection. Regardless of the imperfections he had and the mistakes he made—after all, we are all human, imperfect and errant—Mário Soares taught us, all and all, that giving up is not the way and that the future exists, provided we do not let our dream go. And because we all agree that force is not the most effective means of conflict resolution, we also understand that the liberation processes, however imperfect they are, are always the best option for years of war or centuries of domination and oppression. Despite his conviction as a layman, he was able to value ecumenism, promote dialogue and defend religious freedom, having been able to recognize the value and message of various religious leaders, regardless of the religion they represented, noting, for example, the importance of Pope Francis alerted the world that exclusion and social inequality "will lead to the explosion of violence". He himself introduced the concept of Open Presidency, withdrawing from the Palace of Bethlehem to place on the map various cities and regions of the country, seeking to highlight the causes, concerns and visions of the present and the future of its populations. And, of course, it is impossible to speak of Mário Soares without recalling the numerous efforts that he has begun to bring the environment and ecology to the so-called centre of public and political discussion, alerting to the danger of a planet drifting and declining in the environment, asking with urgency that—and I quote his own words— "those who have some ecological consciousness and respect for nature react actively and succeed in raising a movement of opinion capable of pressuring and undermining the indifference of governments and the powerful". His Open Presidency on the Environment — which is the only one — has marked several generations of activists and has contributed to the development of many non-governmental organisations in the environment, which still deserve this very important recognition today. As in other moments of his life, he had not recently been afraid of the politically incorrect and subscribed the Manifesto by Yours, confirming a position that we will not forget: for Mário Soares, also rivers should be free. Mário Soares is undoubtedly a remarkable image and a reference to any citizen guided by the values of democracy, freedom, peace, the environment and human rights. Contributions with this historical relevance are of extreme importance to the challenges that come about. It is with great respect that we honor Mário Soares. We value the legacy that leaves us, honor its remarkable passage through history and regret the loss of another unmistakable voice of Portuguese democracy. For all this, the NAP expresses its deepest condolences to the family of Mário Soares, his friends and the Socialist Party. I end with the words of another icon in the struggle for freedom, Nelson Mandela, who one day said: « Death is inevitable. When a man does what he deems to be his duty to his people and his country, he can rest in peace. Do not keep on seeking. ” The Mário Soares who rests in peace and thanks! [[PS, BE, Os Verdes and PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-11.u7	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-11.u8	Mr President-in-Office of the Assembly of the Republic, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. João Soares and other relatives of Dr. Mário Soares : Today, in plenary session, Dr. Mário Soares and the first words that the Green Party intends to leave on this occasion are intended to express the most sincere condolences, particularly to the family of Dr. Mário Soares and the Socialist Party. Death, the only aggression that not even the men who help to build our history can win, has no marked time, but arrives, always comes! Always, inevitable and irremediably! This is the human condition. And even if this outcome was relatively predictable, in view of Dr. Mário Soares' state of health in the last few weeks, it is still never appropriate and that is why the pain, especially of his family members, is much lighter. The loss of a close person is always terrible, very painful, of absolutely unbelievable pain, because we humans are not prepared or equipped to face naturally the threat of death. It is therefore important, first of all, to express the greatest sense of respect for the feeling of loss, from the very beginning of your closest family and friends, but also of all those who feel their death as a personal or collective loss. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in recent days, newspapers, radios and televisions have promoted debates, conversations, produced and disseminated reports and collected testimony from known people and anonymous people about Dr. Mário Soares. We have heard and seen, over the past few days, statements of a more personal nature, filled with emotion and others, as, in fact, could not fail to be, about the political man who was indisputably Dr. Mário Soares. And of all this collection of reports, debates, testimonies or statements, agree or disagree with the positions taken by Dr. Mário Soares during a life of political intervention, what remains and which seems to us to be consensual is that we are talking about a man who has marked the history of our country undisturbed. It marked the history of our country, not only by the relevant positions it held after the Revolution of Craps, but also by its contribution in the fight against the fascist regime. A dictatorship that tied the country, for almost half a century, to the fateful poverty and illiteracy, which imposed silence on free expression and opinion and fueled a war deprived of any sense — the Colonial War. As mentioned in the vote of regret, presented by Mr President and the Bureau of the Assembly of the Republic, to which the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party also associates, « Mário Soares has since embraced politics as a vocation ». And, in fact, it did. His life from early on was confused with politics and political activity. The life of Dr. Mário Soares was indisputably crossed by a strong and active political intervention, both before and after the 1974 Revolution. Still a young lawyer, Dr. Mário Soares courageously took up the defense of several political prisoners, of several anti-fascists who opposed and fought with singular determination against the fascist regime, against the fascist dictatorship, fighters, in an absolutely unequal fight. Opposer of the fascist regime, Dr. Mário Soares, was arrested, exiled, deported and persecuted, as many other antifascists who courageously engaged in activities of opposition to the fascist dictatorship. Co-founder of the Socialist Party and its Secretary-General for a long period of time, Dr. Mário Soares held other important positions in national political life: he was a Member of the Constituent Assembly and the Assembly of the Republic, served as Minister and Prime Minister in three constitutional governments, and was also President of the Republic between 1986 and 1996. It is true that, over the course of this time, the Greens Ecological Party has not always accompanied, and has often diverged up to the decisions or political options of Dr. Mário Soares, either as Prime Minister or as President of the Republic, but it is also true that the Greens emphasise and recognize to Dr. Mário Soares the innovative nature of their open presidencies, namely the Open Presidency on the Environment and Quality of Life. An open Presidency which took place in April 1994 and allowed not only to give visibility to serious environmental problems but also to strengthen the importance and relevance of environmental issues and natural resources in the political discussion. for the high positions he performed after 25 April and, above all, for his contribution in the fight against the fascist regime, against the fascist dictatorship, both as a citizen committed to the values in which he believed, as a lawyer in the defense of other antifascists, Dr. Mário Soares deserves our respect. And in these late hours, lived and felt by their closest ones, we remain in this evocative session, reaffirming, with their family members and the Socialist Party, the most sorry for the disappearance of the committed citizen and prominent political leader, Dr. Mário Soares. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes, PS, BE, PCP, PAN and PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-11.u9	You have the floor on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-11.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at the time when the Assembly of the Republic formally signs the death of Dr. Mário Soares, I want to begin, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, by extending condolences to his family, in particular to the children, Mr. João Soares and Dr. Isabel Soares, his grandchildren and the PS Parliamental Group. Dr. Mário Soares will be remembered as a relevant figure in the national political life of recent decades, for his participation in the fight against fascist dictatorship and in support of political prisoners, for his political intervention as a founder and Secretary-General of the PS, for the performance of the highest political positions after 25 April, notably as a Member of the Constituent Assembly, the Assembly of the Republic and the European Parliament, as Minister, Prime Minister, President of the Republic and Member of the Council of State. Remembering him in all these circumstances, he is naturally reminded by the convergences and divergences with which he marked his positions and paths. This is not the appropriate time to disprove the debt and there is the convergences and divergences that marked the relationship of Dr. Mário Soares with the PCP, but it would be political hypocrisy to hide that these differences existed and based on profound convictions about the present and future of Portugal. Mário Soares converged with the CFP in the fight against fascism, for freedom and democracy achieved with the April Revolution, as well as in other moments of national political life. for the real reasons that at every moment we assumed and not by efabulations built in processes of review of history, the PCP profoundly diverged from Dr. Mário Soares by the prominent role that he took in the fight against the emancipator direction of the April Revolution and many of its achievements, including national sovereignty. Today we continue to be opposed to a broad set of ideas and positions whose consequences remain and, in some cases, exacerbate national problems, with a balance sheet that is far from being made. First of all, the consequences of accession to the EEC then, in which it has assumed a prominent responsibility. Having none of these circumstances constituted a surprise in Dr. Mário Soares' life, no one will be surprised today that we do not share the praise of what marked our differences. Which in many cases is highlighted by some as a praise of the positions or action of Dr. Mário Soares is, by many others, negatively felt as damage caused or frustrated expectation. from the PCP, these differences, in many deep cases, do not prevent the expression of our condolences because we know that I take them - as regards political opponents is not separate from the fight against ideas or the determination of the PCP to pursue the struggle for political, economic, social and cultural democracy, national sovereignty, the values of April, by a socialist society. [[Congratulations from the PCP, The Greens, PS Members and CDS-PP Member Filipe Lobo d'Ávila.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-11.u11	On behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-11.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Guests : Today we pay tribute to the memory of Dr. Mário Soares, surely a remarkable political personality of the 20th century and of the early 21st century Portuguese. As founder and Secretary-General of the Socialist Party, Member, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Prime Minister for three occasions, President of the Republic for two term and member of the Council of State, Dr. Mário Soares had a constant, notorious and relevant public intervention, at least in the last half century of national life. It thus personalizes much of the contemporary history of Portugal. As someone well remembered, he made history knowing he was doing it. He had history with vision and courage and also with combativity. Therefore, as its political opponents, if there is honor to do to the person of Dr. Mário Soares is to say what we think with the frontality that was, moreover, one of his main characteristics. We're even thinking that neither Dr. Mário Soares nor those who are close to him would want us to do it differently. We therefore point to the recognition for its political qualities. Militant and courageous, combative and persistent, convinced and conciliator when necessary, was a man of convictions who, agreeing or disagreeing, marked the History of Portugal. We welcome the decisive contribution that Mário Soares had in the construction of a democratic, European and Atlantic State and Portugal that we are proud to be today. We recall the courageous opposition to the New State and the defence of rights and freedoms, which today seem, and indeed, as natural as free elections, the freedom of thought or equal opportunities among all Portuguese. We welcome the determining role that, together with other personalities of Portuguese political life, had in the 1974 Revolution. But we also welcome the political courage and lucidity that Dr. Mário Soares then showed by opposing all and any attempt to transform a democratic revolution into another one of opposite charities in the name of a totalitarian ideology that history has ruined years later. If Portugal did not then become a dictatorship, it is largely due to Dr. Mário Soares. We do not forget the decisive role in the manifestation of the light source and the leading role that, alongside other military figures, such as Ramalho Eanes, Mário Soares, together with Francisco Sá Carneiro and Diogo Freitas do Amaral, played on 25 November. As we do not forget the importance of Mário Soares in consolidating democracy and opening up Portugal to Europe and the world when he led Portugal's accession to the European Economic Community at the time. This project, the European project, is still to be fulfilled in many of the objectives then announced. But not to recognize the evidence that European integration, by itself and by other consolidated ones, in the difficulties and even in the setbacks, was a further value for the country is a historic error of assessment that the CDS will certainly not make. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, by recalling the memory of Dr. Mário Soares, we cannot, nor should we deny that so many times we have disagreed with his political opinions and options. The CDS, at this moment of fair and worthy homage, cannot fail to recall our disagreement with a process of decolonization called by many of the copies, but which, in our view, was hastened and brought suffering to thousands of Portuguese people who had no responsibility for the New State's stubbornness in not recognizing, as it should be, the right to self-determination of peoples who today are independent states and brothers' countries. Or forget that we had different visions for Portugal when, in 1976, this House approved a Constitution that advocated the path to socialism. More recently, we continued to have divergent opinions when the country was forced into a financial rescue that we never wanted or did not contribute, but that we helped to meet and thus regain full national sovereignty. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CDS, said this, evokes here the memory of a man who indelibly marked the end of the last century and the beginning of this century. Doing so without the necessary historical distance is certainly an boldness, but we do so with that consciousness and, as I said, in a genuine way. We believe that it is the best way to honor someone who, disagreeing or agreeing, has always defended freedom and democracy as essential values of human dignity. The differences we had as a party do not undermine in any way respect and consideration for their indisputable qualities. It is in this context that the man and the courageous, plural and intelligent politician the CDS pays due tribute to Mário Soares, stresses his role in the history of Portugal and in the construction of democratic Portugal and presents to his family, to the Socialist Party, to his friends and, in particular, to the honourable Member, our colleague and my friend, João Soares the most sympathetic condolences. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP, PSD, PS and PAN.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-11.u13	On behalf of the Left Block, Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-11.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mário Soares is an unmistakable figure of the 20th century Portuguese. He made the political struggle his life. Obstinate, unpredictable, impatient, frontal, controversial but always a fighter. He was an anti-fascist fighter, often imprisoned and then exiled. Thanks to leaving the family and the country, he did not abandon his convictions, the anti-colonial struggle, the desire for freedom and democracy, the love of the Republic. Member of the opposition to the dictatorship of Salazar, was present at fundamental moments such as that of the presidential candidacy of General Humberto Delgado. After the murder of Humberto Delgado, he was even the representative of the family in the process to expose the responsibility of the PIDE in this execution. As a lawyer in this period, he was also a defender of several political prisoners from various quadrants of the opposition. But he did not submit to the existing forces of democratic opposition, seeking his own way. in exile, he founded the PS and sought the support of European social democracy, fundamental to the political project that he would defend after the end of the dictatorship he felt was imminent. After the April Revolution, he returned to many battles that marked our democratic regime, once having the forces on his left as allies, sometimes having these forces as opponents. Returned to the country, soon plunged into the ongoing revolutionary process. He was a Constituent and founder of the 76 regime, Minister of Provisional Governments. He was Prime Minister of a minority government and also a government in partnership with the right. It became the most committed worker of the integration of Portugal into the European Union. He signed the Portugal Treaty of Accession to the European Economic Community, while presiding over the Central Block Government PS / PSD, which applied harsh austerity measures to the country. on his way to President of the Republic, he defeated opponents such as Feitas do Amaral, Salgado Zenha and Maria de Lurdes Pintasilgo. At that time, in history, the true meaning of "political animal" in this journey. In more recent times he criticized Tony Blair's « third way », he stood up against Iraq's invasion and wars in the Middle East, just as he was in the defense of the Portuguese Constitution against the new social rules imposed by the troika. He opposed the austerity policies of the PSD/CDS government and welcomed the change imposed by the 2015 elections. The Left Block welcomes the memory of Mário Soares, addressing his children, João Soares — our fellow Member — and Dr. Isabel Soares, his family, his friends and the Socialist Party, of which he was founder. [[Congratulations from BE, PS, Os Verdes, PAN, PSP and CDS-PP Member João Pinho de Almeida.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-11.u15	On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-11.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Invited, family of Dr. Mário Soares : It is with deep and genuine political and civic respect that the Social Democratic Party evokes here, in the House of Democracy, Dr. Mário Soares. This house was his face. What happens here since the Constituent Assembly, what happened yesterday, what happens today, what will happen tomorrow, all this, debates, votes, elections, meetings, hearings, all this is the mirror of the supreme cause of Dr. Mário Soares' life: the cause of democracy, the cause of pluralism, the cause of freedom, the cause of the sovereign will of the people, the cause of social justice, the great cause of politics. « Portugal is a sovereign Republic, based on the dignity of the human person and on the popular will and committed to the construction of a free, just and solidarity society» — read Article 1. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. in it they proclaim the foundations of our Republic — the sovereign popular will and dignity of the human person — and define the designs, always unattained in the fullness but daily constructed and persecuted, of freedom, justice and solidarity. In few words 26 words is summed up, with supreme simplicity, a huge political project: the Portuguese nation. It was this project that mobilized Mário Soares in the fight against dictatorship, fascism, isolationism. It was this project that mobilized Mário Soares, in 1974 and 1975, when it fought the ideological fanaticism and the programmatic totalitarianism that some wanted. And it was also this project of democracy and development that mobilized Mário Soares, when he fought for Portugal's openness and adherence to the European project. More than any electoral victory, the great victory of the life of Mário Soares was never to give up fighting for the validity of this article 1. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, because democracy must be conquered and safeguarded at every moment and in every historical circumstance. at the PSD bench, in the Social Democratic Party we also often differ from Mário Soares. Do not take the trouble of saying, even with civic and political affection, that we differ to the end, to the last of your writings and to the last of your speeches. We have often diverged, but we have never separated from him in what was the central point of his struggle: to avoid any kind of dictatorship, to defend democracy, the interdependence of sovereign powers and the primacy of political power vis-à-vis economic power. That is why we were with him in 1974 and 1975, so we were with him in the next decade, including in the government, and so we were with him in the European Union accession and integration project. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if the convictions and major causes of Mário Soares have mobilized the country and Portuguese society, it is still important to recognize that their intervention has exceeded, and much, our borders. Dr. Mário Soares integrated, by his strategic thinking, by his ecumenical vision, by his interest in the causes of humanity, a network of international influence sharing, a network that was decisive for Portuguese society, Portugal and Europe, and also for the space of the Lusophony. Only the unwary or the very unwary can deduce the importance of this network and the credibility of Dr. Mário Soares at the most relevant moments of his interventions and at the most relevant moments of our history over the past few decades. Mário Soares respected and was therefore respected worldwide, by people, by countries, by institutions. And with it was also respected Portugal, our country. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm done with a more personal word. by looking at this man and his struggles, by looking at those who, in his party, but also in other parties, have architectured our regime and have not hesitated to intervene in the international scene, by finding that, since 25 April, the country has also seen other important political figures appear, you may like more or less of the people, you may more or less like politics and political projects, but I will ask myself: that another country of our size, with such a young democracy, has already elected, for example, a President of the European Commission for 10 years and, more recently, a Secretary-General of the United Nations? You see, in 40 years, how many big politicians have gone through all these benches? How many have been referred to in their political families at European and international level? by looking at Mário Soares and his extraordinary journey, for his courage and for his daring, looking at all this and thanking him for being here today, I would like to say something controversial, controversial but truly meaningful: in Portugal of Mário Soares there is nobility in politics and there are politicians of excellence in all party quadrants. Great policy and great politics are the tribute that Mário Soares deserves. Our duty is to do so and also to transmit it to those who follow us. I want to finish by addressing a warm democratic embrace to the Socialist Party and to the family of Dr. Mário Soares, in particular to my dear friend João Soares. [[PSD, PS, CDS-PP and PAN applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-11.u17	The last intervention, before we move on to the vote of regret for the death of Mário Soares, is that of Mr Carlos César, on behalf of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-11.u18	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, My Ladies and Gentlemen : This Wednesday, January 11, 2017, is the third and last day of national mourning for the death of Mário Soares. This special session of the Assembly of the Republic, dedicated to its memory, is, however, the celebration of its life and patriotic dedication to our country—a long and full life, in time and in mode. A life that began a year and a half before the fall of the Republic and the rise of the military dictatorship and subsequent national dictatorship, which would be consolidated in the New State until 25 April 1974, the founding date of the Second Republic — as Mário Soares always designated it, contrary to the insidious historical revisionism. This means that Mário Soares lived until the first 49 years of his life without knowing, in his country, respect for rights, freedoms and guarantees, public and individual. This means that he lived his childhood and youth under the sign of permanent persecution to his father, the distinguished pedagogue who was Dr. João Soares. This means that, since he was at the age of reason, at the age of 17, he did not give way to oppression for the next 32 years. This means that he did so, sharing with his wife, Mary of Jesus, and with his children, Isabel and John, before and after 1974, the most intimate enthusiasms and the most distressing sufferings of these struggles. All this means that without the Mário Soares antifascist—and without his horror of the righteous by the police state—we would not have the Mário Soares who would be the greatest agent of the consolidation of our 'classic representative political democracy', to use the expression of José Medeiros Ferreira—the democracy that everyone brings us together in this House and which obliges us to respect one another, to tolerance and to fidelity to our principles. Mário Soares started his resistance early. Because of the efficiency of anti-fascist combat, he entered the Portuguese Communist Party, as many others did to whom we owe so much. Accompanied and accompanying those to whom the autonomy of political action and judgment did not dispense a free will not consent with the fierce party discipline, abandoned this affiliation. And we reached the heart of the political person of Mário Soares. More than the sole heir of a more liberal or more social republicanism, more or less conspirative, Mário Soares was a privileged interpreter of the need for the necessary autonomy of judgment to the political leader. Personal autonomy—passing the Tautology—is therefore the key word for its political action, both in resistance and in democratic life. Mário Soares early realized that the efficiency of the fight against the Portuguese para-fascist police state required a demanding plasticity in the political struggle. The international experience that has been gained confirmed that, at the time of democracy, it would only be sustainable in the context of Portugal's entry into and commitment to the Europe of liberal democracies and the social states of law. It was in this spirit, and in this context, that Mário Soares fought for the constitution of the Socialist Party. Here is a constant of our history, almost since that « first Portuguese afternoon» that occurred in 1139, in São Mamede. As Fernando Morán, the head of Spanish diplomacy in the first government of Felipe González, said with elegant beauty, the construction of Portugal is « as a cathedral, which is supported by its archobotants». The Europe of the Communities would be one of the settlements of these rainbows, the strategic support of our old homeland and our young democracy. Therefore, 'Europe with us'! Portugal, European State. Yes! Portugal, Atlantic State. Sure! So in saying our geography and our history. Nothing more natural, therefore, than what we shall also base our European specificity on the rainbow of atlanticity. All this has been exercised in the political proposal and in the governance of Mário Soares. All this has been exercised with the brilliant and inspiring execution of its Foreign Ministers from Medeiros Ferreira to Jaime Gama — both Azorians, both Atlantic Europeans. There was no time, nor was there, for the formalization of an organization that brought together « the world that the Portuguese created », during the mandates of Mário Soares as Prime Minister and as President of the Republic. But it was during its IX Constitutional Government that in a speech in Cape Verde, in Cape Verde, his then Minister for Foreign Affairs, Jaime Gama, in 1984, would propose the constitution and institutional design, today in force, of the Community of Portuguese-speaking Countries ( CPLP ). Twelve years later, CPLP materialized. The rainbow of the Lusophonia was launched. It was during the XIII Government, presided over by Antonio Guterres. Portugal is a country without which the world would not be the same. We owe Mário Soares the constant memory of our vocation and our universal projection. So he went through the world, as our prosecutor, helping our recognition. I don't remember ever hearing Mário Soares define Portugal as a small country. And Portugal is, in fact, a country of medium scale in the world concert. Mário Soares never belonged to the category of Portuguese leaders who diminish our country in the nation concert to justify the mediocrity of their own action and ambition and their results. Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, you said, in a happy sentence, that Mário Soares, more than PS activist No 1, was activist No 1 of Portuguese democracy. It is true, as President of the PS, that makes me proud! Mário Soares was not only the man who fought for democracy in the time of what was literally our old regime, in the historical sense of expression, and who by it fought, inside and outside the gates, in the difficult time of formation of the second Republic. He was certainly a fighter for his deepening, in his economic, social and cultural dimensions. I address a final word to your family, here present, especially to Isabel and John, and also to many of your friends, collaborators and admirers, also among us. We share his pain and his longing. Mário Soares challenged the Prince's rules in politics: it was perfect and imperfect, it was bold and committed recklessness, it betted and won, it betted and lost, it was fraternal and it was difficult. It was never, however, uninteresting and, much less, irrelevant. He never missed his country. She was cosmopolitan, she was always universalist, she was therefore always a great Portuguese! Long live Mário Soares. Long live President Mário Soares! [[PSP, standing, PAN and PSD, BE and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-01-11.u19	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, we shall proceed to the vote on vote No 194 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — In spite of the death of Mário Soares ( President of the HR and Vice-Presidents and Secretaries of the Bureau ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] [[On the stand, by the President and the Secretaries of the Bureau, the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PAN and the members of the Government present, as well as the public in the galleries, among which the family of Mário Soares, have also raised the Members of the CFP and of the Greens.]] [[Then, at the sound of the Land of Hope and Glory march, a film with images of Mário Soares was designed in Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The Chamber and the audience present in the galleries kept, standing, one minute silence.]] Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much, Mário Soares. [[Once again, there were applause, and then the Republican National Guard Band, placed in the Lost Steps, executed the national hymn, which was sung, standing, throughout the House and by the public present in the galleries, who, in the end, applauded once again.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it remains to be remembered that our next session will take place tomorrow at 3 p.m. the first item is political statements. Secondly, petition No 124 / XIII ( 1 ) will be appreciated. ( a ) — They request the debate and decision on the ratification of CETA in the Assembly of the Republic ( Platform « Not to the Transatlantic Treaty ») together with draft resolutions 379 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government guarantee democratic nature in the process of the Global Economic and Commercial Agreement ( CETA ) ( The Greens ), 603 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by the rejection of free trade and services agreements, including the Global Economic and Trade Agreement ( CETA ) between the European Union and Canada ( CFP ), 606 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Portuguese Government promote an extended debate with civil society and non-governmental organizations on the impact of CETA in Portugal and Europe ( PAN ) and 608 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by rejecting the Global Economic and Trade Agreement ( CETA ) ( European Union-Canada ) and by creating guarantees of transparency and democratic participation ( BE ). Thirdly, petition No 115 / XIII ( 1 ) will be discussed. ( a ) — Requesting the repeal of Regulation No 1 - H / 2016 amending Articles 3. o, 6. o, 8. o, 9. o, 18. o, 19. o, 20. o, 22. o, 23. o, 25. o is 26. the Regulation Order No 7 - B / 2015, published in the Journal of the Republic, 2. the Series, No 88, of 7 May 2015, which determines the registration procedures and their renewal ( Sandra Cristina Correia Ribeiro Gonçalves ). I appreciate the presence of all and wish to continue a good afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 16 hours and 20 minutes.]]
