ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 2 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. Before we get on the agenda, I ask Secretary Emília Santos to give us an account of the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau and were admitted by Mr President, the drafts of lein.o 509 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Add the National Association of Sinistered Deficiencies at Work as a 1 % beneficiary of the amount of fines applied for breach of the safety and health rules at work or resulting from non-compliance with rules for repairing accidents at work, proceeding to 12. the amendment of the Labour Code and the first amendment of Law No 98 / 2009, 4 September ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 510 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recalculation of supplementary benefits for assistance to third parties assigned to those injured in work under Law No 2127 / 65 of 3 August ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and 511 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amended third Decree-Law No 75 / 2008 of 22 April ( Approves the system of autonomy, administration and management of public establishments in pre-school education and basic and secondary education ), as amended by Decree-Law No 224 / 2009 of 11 September, and 137 / 2012 of 2 July ( PSD ), which falls to 8. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, draft resolutions 826 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government draw up a national programme for the prevention of occupational accidents and diseases ( CFP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 827 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to comply with the National Vaccination Programme in the school community ( CDS-PP ), 828 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to comply with the National Programme for Vaccination in the Adult Population and Health Professionals ( CDS-PP ), 829 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — It proposes the implementation of a programme of deburocratization and support for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises ( CFP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 831 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — End of public financing to academic claws ( BE ), which fall to 12. the Commission, and 832 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Prevention of excessive consumption of central nervous system stimulants ( Ritaline and Strattera ) to treat hyperactivity disorder with attention deficit ( BE ), which falls to 9. the Commission. Finally, he entered the Bureau, and was admitted, the draft deliberation No. 15 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — The second amendment to Resolution No 2 - PL / 2016, adopted on 29 January ( Set the composition, distribution and list of parliamentary friendship groups in the XIII Legislation ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u3	Mrs. Members of our agenda include a marking of the CFP, which consists in the joint debate, in general, of the projects of lein.o 169 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Renews the principle of the most favourable treatment and regulates the succession of collective labour conventions by amending the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( PCP ), 163 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Replies the most favourable treatment principle ( BE) and 234 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by increasing the collective bargaining ( BE ). I note that at the end of the debate there will be a vote on these diplomas, and I would therefore ask the parliamentary committees to warn their Members. To present Bill No 169 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Collective recruitment is not verbatim. The April Revolution gave it a place in the Constitution, recognized its central role as a tool for the distribution of wealth and privileged space to consolidate collective rights and promote the improvement of working conditions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u6	Collective contracting gives body to the action and organized force of workers, is the result of many decades of hard and intense struggles of generations and generations of women and men against the exploitation and realization of their demands, represents the culmination of processes of struggle developed from the workplace, where the patronage is obliged to recognize and agree rights. Thank you, yes, because the employer doesn't offer and the workers don't ask. The conquest struggle and the patronage yields. [[PCP applause.]] It will therefore not be ironic of fate or mere coincidence that, over the years, collective recruitment has always been the target of a closed attack. In fact, there are rights that are only enshrined in collective bargaining. That is why collective bargaining is, in some cases, the last reduction in the guarantee of rights. And it is also because, in our country, although many do not know and many do for everything to hide, many still have the perfect notion that only with the collective contract was it possible to establish such important rights as: fixing and updating wages; regulating schedules and their maximum daily and weekly duration; recognition of qualifications and the definition of functions, categories, frameworks and careers; the stability of contractual links and the prohibition of dismissals without just cause; the right to rest days and paid holidays; the conditions of travel in service; the payment of additional work, night work and shift allowances; the right to vocational training; the conditions of employment provision and measures to prevent occupational risks; various social benefits, such as canteens and meals, medical care, daycare and children, among so many other labour and social rights. It will therefore not be surprising that subsequent changes to labour law have always resulted in the degradation of rights and attempts to wind up collective bargaining. Subsequent governments — increasingly committed to the privilege of capital rather than to the rights of workers — attacked collective bargaining because they knew that this was the right way to reduce labour costs, to weaken the most unprotected part in the labour relationship, to aggravate exploitation and to facilitate the accumulation of profits or the so-called "competitive gains", focusing only on wage costs. They knew that this was the right way because they knew, and they know, that attacking collective bargaining is to level down workers' rights, as little as possible, placing them on the ground of dignity, because, in fact, the blockade, the boycott, the liquidation of collective bargaining is directly proportional to the profits of the employers. Let us see: when the Portuguese Insurance Association uses the file of the amendment of its statutes, of employers' association for business associations, which, in fact, aims to drop the collective contract in force, which obliges the payment of an old-age premium, of travel expenses in service, of the payment of additional work under conditions more favourable to the Labour Code. When the Association of Textiles of Portugal threatens to withdraw from the grant of love to workers, what it is intended, in fact, to impose a cut of €50 on a salary that surrounds the national minimum wage or when it does not recognize Carnival Tuesday as a compulsory holiday, what it is, in fact, to impose another day's work unpaid and less a day's rest. When employers' associations that represent canteens, meals, service areas and bars granted or even in sectors with frankly positive results, as is the case with hotels, refuse to review collective employment contracts for more than 14 years, what they really want is to maintain wages of misery.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u7	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u8	Another well-revealing case is that of the Funchal Trade and Industrial Association, which threatens to expire the collective contract of work. For a salary to be paid on average, the €600 would mean: holidays would be fair work; a cut of €30 in the base remuneration; ending the diucturities and thus reducing the salary by €19; ending the language premium, amounting to about €30, as well as granting the employers the power to decide whether the food is in kind or in money — values that surround a monthly average of €35 —, ending the supplementary sickness allowance and losing the allowance for failures, around €23 per month. More: workers could be transferred to any part of the island, being the expenses of travelling their responsibility; rest days could be changed according to the need of the company, without respect for the need of the worker, and could still be subject to the imposition of the hourly bank.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u9	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u10	In short, Mr. President, Mr. Members, in addition to the loss of family, personal and professional life, the expiry of the collective contract of hotels in the Autonomous Region of Madeira would result in a salary cut of more than 120 €, in a salary of 600 €. This situation is even more shocking when the region sees increasing the number of beds and the sector has frankly positive results.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u11	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u12	in fact, the profits of a minority are massed at the cost of withdrawing rights to a majority. See the example of SAMS ( Social Medical Assistance Service ) of the Banking Union, where since 2011 the employer intends to expire the contract and where the generalization of false green receipts, of temporary work, without respect for rest times, is what fats in the day-to-day workers, whether doctors, nurses, diagnostic and therapeutic technicians or medical action assistants.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u13	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the employer has never complied with the loss of unilateral power to impose the rules on working relations. Soon the blockade began to hold collective bargaining, blackmailing trade unions in negotiations and refusing to increase wages if they did not accept the reduction of rights. History has proved that this conquest of democracy — collective bargaining — has not had easy life and has been the target of close attacks. On the one hand, through successive amendments to the Labour Code, admitting the expiry of the conventions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u15	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u16	... the elimination of the principle of treatment most favourable to the worker, the possibility of being established in the conventions working conditions below the law, the explicitation of individual adherence to the conventions, the introduction of adaptability schemes and hourly banks, imposing more time and less pay. On the other hand, under the threat of guillotine of expiry, through the imposition of unacceptable employers' proposals with the sole aim of reducing and eliminating rights. It was in 2003 that a PSD / CDS government offered the patronate the expiration of the conventions and the elimination of the principle of the most favourable treatment for the worker. They did not waste time and the employer engaged in a significant fall in the number of contracts agreed and, above all, a sharp decrease in the number of workers covered by collective bargaining.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u17	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u18	Since then, by the hand of successive governments, all revisions, always worse, of the Labour Code have hampered the effective exercise of the law of collective bargaining and have created room for the elimination of rights — this resulted in a generalized blockade of negotiation, including refusal of negotiation and contracting in the Public Administration — ; significantly reduced the time limits for the expiry and survival of collective labour contracts, with a view to speeding up their end and destroying their rights ; removed collective bargaining in the State business sector, withdrawing rights and income to workers. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the lapse of collective bargaining only serves the patronage, it is a weapon of shooting to impose the withdrawal of workers' rights. This situation is unsustainable and requires the revocation of expiry and the reintroduction, in its entirety, of the principle of treatment most favourable to the worker. Subsequent governments gave total coverage to the employer to boycott collective bargaining processes, offering in the law what they could not impose on hiring, due to the resistance and struggle of workers. The Annual Report on the Development of Collective Negotiation, recently published, may even conclude that there are more conventions published, but this does not automatically mean that they are instruments of defence and strengthening rights, on the contrary. The content of the overwhelming majority of the conventions published results from agreements in which there is all the availability of trade unions and the availability of the patronate to impose the degradation of rights. The fact that wage growth is recorded, which is mainly due to the demanding struggle of workers, is often presented as a currency for the exchange of the application of increases and deregulation of working hours. There are enormous and systematic delays in the publications of the non-wage-free portals, which cover many hundreds of workers, who see their salary updated with a delay of six months to one year. It is of little use that the Government's programme intends to dynamize collective bargaining or that there is a period of truce for the employer's failure to present the expiry. The truth, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is that daily in the workplace the practice is that of blocking and the non-application of the rights enshrined in collective bargaining. It is increasingly urgent and necessary to value collective bargaining, to restore the principle of treatment most favourable to the worker and the end of expiry in the law. This is a requirement of democracy, it is a condition of development and progress of the country and it is a flag by which the CFP will continue to fight. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u19	Mrs Rita Rato, three Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. I wonder how you want to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u20	I am replying together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u21	Mrs. Wanda Guimarães of the PS then has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Rita Rato on expiry, I would like to mention a number of points. In fact, as I mentioned last week, we will certainly have the same goals, but we often choose different paths to get there. on our part, it seems to us that a debate on a subject which is the subject of a tripartite agreement, therefore an agreement in social dialogue between the partners and the Government, which, like VV. Ex.s reported and called it has a kind of 18-month moratorium, period during which the parties undertook not to use the figure of expiry. On the other hand, the ladies and gentlemen. Members know, of course, that the most advanced countries in the field of the defence of labour rights have a developed and extraordinarily refined social dialogue and it is not, even if the Socialist Party goes, in the nearest times, to devalue social dialogue. on the contrary, it is our objective that social dialogue can in fact contribute to the dignity of the agreements, until, in our view, there are no agreements that are as sustainable, for obvious reasons, as those that are achieved in terms of the social partners and the government. We do not, of course, devalue Parliament's powers and legislative power either. It seems to us that, before the debate in social dialogue, it does not make any sense and, moreover, we have a Green Paper on Labour Relations, whose analysis is proposed by the Government, and therefore at this point it seems to us that we should be able to make any changes to labour law. Last point: without a margin for doubt, about expiry, our position has been completely clear. That is to say, we reject, on the one hand, that the expiry of the collective conventions serves as a weapon for the employers, but we also do not find it useful to reverse the conditions and situations that existed before the 2003 Labour Code. And we'll tell you why. If you look at the data from the Labour Relations Centre for 2016, you see that we now have 750 000 workers covered by collective bargaining—I know that the number is far below what we already had, but it is three times more than we have in past years. The honourable Member argues that the expiry of collective conventions is a blocking factor for the dynamization of content. however, before 2003 — many are the examples, and I can give them — there were conventions that only updated wages, allowing them to always investigate matters considered as defending and safeguarding workers' rights, such as professional categories, but could give other examples. A convention that is completely out of date regarding professional categories cannot in any way protect these workers, leaves them completely unprotected. Although some aspects of the expiry in force may be reconsidered, it is not the cause of the lack of dynamism of collective bargaining, because, if so, we would not have had this situation before 2003; on the contrary, we would have always had an extremely active collective negotiation. from our point of view, they have contributed many factors that should not be neglected, such as, for example, the past four years of the PSD/CDS government, the fear that was installed, the devaluation of work, the sharp protection of the strongest, and out there. Question : Does it not seem to you that the biggest obstacle to the dynamism of collective bargaining is that, in fact, it does not implement the constitutional concept of the right to collective bargaining? In other words, there is no effective mechanism to ensure that months and months of negotiation between the parties and the results reached are preserved. Is this or not the most important factor, i.e. the non-constitutional concept of the right to collective bargaining? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u23	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I remember that we have an agreement, in fact, we have several agreements, so that we do not exceed twice as much time as we have to ask for clarification, even when it is cut off in the time of the parliamentary group. And more than 4 minutes is a little too much. Mr Adam Silva, from the PSD, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u24	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Rita Rato, I am pleased to ask you two questions about what you just said recently. V. Exa began the intervention by saying that collective recruitment is not verb-de-enfill.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u25	And go on!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u26	We, on this bench, agree. But I will also tell you that it is not a flower of lappla that is put on and is removed from time to time, according to the circumstances and interests more or less appropriate, in the case of the CFP. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u27	The question that I have already addressed to you is the following: if collective bargaining is so important, why did they not include collective bargaining as an obligatory and inconsequential matter of that same agreement when they established the Government Agreement with the Socialist Party? This is the first question. [[PSD applause.]] Returning to your metaphor, that is, that collective bargaining is not a verb-to-fill, I also tell you that collective bargaining is not a weapon of shooting against participatory democracy, democracy of dialogue, against democracy where what must prevail is the commitment that is put in Portugal very well through social dialogue. VV. For example, they do this debate in a very timely time, certainly, and in an exercise in which nothing for social consultation, nothing for participatory democracy, all by a revolutionary logic, a street logic, a logic of CGTP. It is truly what can be said « the PCP at the service of the CGTP », « the PCP is broadcasting the CGTP »! [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] Madam Member, the inopportunity of this debate is manifest, and those who say it are the numbers. See well: right now, what do we have in Portugal? We have the job to grow, we have the unemployment to decrease and even imagine, Mrs. Member, since 2014, as you well know, the collective agreement agreements to be increased and the number of workers covered by collective bargaining has also been increasing. This means, Mrs Deputy, that the labour laws — against which you fought so much in 2012, in 2013 and 2014 and that the previous government, costly, self-sufficient and bravely, have carried out — are bearing fruit. Employment grows, unemployment decreases and even, see well — the Távoras, which is like the one who says bad luck to Mrs Rita Rato! — collective contracts are growing. It's really remarkable! Mrs. Deputy, there's that jargon, that football shot, that the winning team won't move, the winning team won't move. The question I ask is this: if the results of the labor laws we did in 2012, 2013 and 2014 are so good—and are! — Why move on to what is good? Only by a complete absurd exercise or, then, by a completely unmistakable and untimely exercise by the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u28	Mr António Carlos Monteiro, from the CDS-PP, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u29	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Rita Rato, the CFP has allocated this debate on collective bargaining. Once again, there is no 1. the May in which the PCP does not come to make its life test, claiming its influence in the union world and in the CGTP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u30	Today, it's May 4th! It's been three days!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u31	And the CFP — now also with the support of the Left Block — what do you want? Improving the current law? It is that, if it is to improve the current law, we are always available. [[PCP laughter.]] But what they want is not that. What they want is to reaffirm their ideological prejudice of the class struggle, of the struggle of workers against employers and against companies. They intend to return to a hostage economy of the CGTP and its trade unions. [[PCP protests.]] In fact, on our parliamentary days, we visited companies in Vale de Cambra, Águeda, Ílhavo... We have seen companies where the logic is that workers and employers cooperate to create wealth and employment, companies that export 80% of their production, companies that want to hire workers and pay these average workers, far above the minimum wage. These workers do not need these proposals from the CFP. It is only that the CFP prefers to ignore the interests of these workers in order to reaffirm their prejudices. What do the PCP want and, by the way, the Left Block? They intend to amend 17 articles of the Labour Code on the most favourable treatment and succession of collective conventions. Only that the PCP prefers to ignore that this reform was greatly praised by the OECD by saying that we should still go further...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u32	For the OECD's sake, we'd go back to day work!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u33	... and that of the 17 articles, 13 are the full authorship of the current Minister Vieira da Silva, which the same PCP and the Left Block support the Government. In fact, the PS has already announced that it will vote against your proposals. Yes, unlike last week, at least this time the CFP says « goes to vote ». Last week, I wasn't even saying that. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] therefore this debate is more an exercise of hypocrisy of the CFP, which comes to this debate as brave men who shout « hold on to me, or I will go to them », when what they want is to be gripped. And the PS did them the will when he said he was going to vote against it. [[PCP protests.]] Mrs Rita Rato, the PCP often likes to remember the old daily squares, where the workers were subject to the discretion of the bosses in order to be able to work. Mrs. Member, don't you think the CFP has placed itself today in a day-to-day square? This is because the PS comes to seek his vote whenever he wants and is interested in him; when he does not want, he ignores, rejects and votes against your proposals. Tell me, Mrs Rita Rato, do you live happily on this daily square? If he doesn't live, be consistent. Or do you lack the courage to do that? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u34	In reply, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u35	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen who asked me questions. Starting by responding to Mrs. Members of the PSD and the CDS-PP are not surprised by this anti-unional speech by the PSD and the CDS because it actually reflects their vision, rhetoric and practice.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u36	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u37	The practice of the PSD and the CDS is that of those who are ill with the existence of trade unions, with the existence of workers' rights and even with principles of defending collective bargaining in the Constitution.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u38	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u39	But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the daily squares are a time when we don't want it to happen again. In the days of the daily squares, we knew who was next to the square and who was next to it. As in the past, we also understand that it is not possible to have new daily squares calling them other names and making for this to lapse the collective contract so that today's daily squares withdraw rights to workers. Mrs. Wanda Guimarães, it is obvious that expiry has only served one thing. Expiration, over the years, has only served the patronage. Never at any time has rights been good for workers. Never, at any time, impose wage cuts, withdraw rights, withdraw social support which has been freely negotiated between the parties may have been translated for the benefit of the workers. It is very obvious to us that the debate we are doing today has nothing to do with time. Retrograde is to continue to defend the expiry of collective bargaining. Delayed is to continue to defend daily squares, as the PSD and CDS want. We understand that more than ever, it is necessary to restore the principle of treatment that is most favourable to the worker and it is essential to revoke expiry in collective bargaining. Mrs Wanda Guimarães and Mrs. Mr Adam Silva and Mr António Carlos Monteiro, for the workers of the SAMS (Social Medical Services ), for the workers of Petrogal, for the textile workers and for the hotel workers, the revocation of expiry is of elementary justice. None of this is extemporaneous, but on the contrary, it is a necessity. Mrs. Members of the CFP, we are not ashamed, on the contrary, of being on the side of the workers and of giving a voice to the workers. That you are giving a voice to the bosses is a problem of PSD, CDS and PS regarding this debate. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The CFP believes that today's debate is crucial. For this reason, we propose the discussion of two subjects which are of fundamental justice: the defense of the replacement of the most favourable treatment principle and the end of expiry. Each, PS, PSD and CDS, will take their part in this fight. from the PCP side, we know which side we are on. Each, with his or her own sense of vote on these bills, will take on the consequences that come from there. Workers know that they can continue to count on the PCP and the PCP knows that they can continue to count on the fight, because it was the struggle that defended and built the collective hiring there these four walls. This debate may end here, but it continues outside, from the workplaces, in Petrogal, in the textile factories, in the hotel and at all those times when workers' rights are denied, which workers know that it is a matter of elementary dignity, because there is no democracy and development of the country without the rights of workers. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u40	To present the Bills of the Left Block, Mrs. Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u41	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The amendments to the Labour Code in recent years have called into question the individual and collective dimension of workers'rights, even calling into question the exercise of fundamental rights enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic, such as the right to collective bargaining or the principle of equality as set out in Article 13. o. in Article 13. it can be read that it cannot be treated equally what, initially, is unequal. This is exactly what happens in labour relations, which are marked by inequality between the parties. Thus, the Labour Code emerges as a way to overcome this inequality in labor relations and to protect the worker. thus, we present two bills: one of them proposes the replacement of the most favourable treatment principle and the other proposes the increase of collective bargaining. The replacement of the principle of most favourable treatment is the basic stone of labour law, essential for the replacement of the very spirit of our country's Constitution on equality. Without the replacement of this principle, we weaken the position of the worker, which, of course, is the least powerful part in the labour relationship. Not recognizing the importance of the replacement of this principle is not recognizing the basis of our right to work.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u43	The connection of this principle to the increase of the collective bargaining itself by the end of the expiry of collective conventions is obvious and the objectives of the projects under discussion are simple: to combat precariousness, to combat inequalities and to respect those who work in our country. In addition to restoring the historical importance of these principles, we know two things: on the one hand, expiry allowed the conventions, purely and simply, to cease to exist by unilateral decision of the employers and, on the other hand, the end of the most favourable treatment, in addition to the question of the principle, has degraded the content of the conventions themselves, because it allows them to have worse standards than the general law, which is absurd. Knowing this, the centrality of Parliament and its competence to decide on these matters is unquestionable in the Portuguese legal framework. We do not accept that the debate focuses on the supposed inability of Parliament to decide on employment. We do not accept that we continue to say, as if it were true, that all the changes in the scope of work were made in the context of social consultation, because they were not. As an example, with the introduction, on the right, of the unilateral expiry of contracts, PSD and CDS came to give the final blow to collective bargaining capacity and offer employers a widely used blackmail tool without social consultation. That is why today to say that it is not Parliament's role to make a statement on this matter is to continue to propagate the idea and practice of absolute impunity of the employer in the protection of workers. We don't accept that! [[Congratulations from BE.]] We can already draw conclusions from the work reforms made in recent decades: in the name of flexibility, wages have been reduced, the weaker part of an unequal relationship has been protected, the exponential increase in precariousness has increased, and therefore democracy has also decreased. The figures confirm that, in terms of collective bargaining, we are still far from what is necessary. In 2011 there were more than 1, 2 million workers covered by collective conventions and in 2014 they became less than 250 000, and the most recently published data indicate that in 2016 there were no more than 750 000 workers covered by collective conventions published. These figures show that the recovery of collective bargaining is slow and calls for more consequent measures. The government itself admitted that, as far as collective conventions are concerned, there are problems and admitted the problem by implementing a half-solver solution, a parenthesis in the law for 18 months. Now, if we admit that the problem is, then we move on to solutions that are not just placebos, but that are, yes, lasting solutions for the lives of workers. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, collective bargaining has been constitutionally enshrined since the April Revolution and is an instrument recognized for its structural role in the regulation of work, but also for the family life of workers and the social function it performs, either as an instrument of distribution of wealth, or as a means of consolidating rights. It was through collective bargaining that workers ensured the updating of wages, timetable regulation, recognition of qualifications, career definition, prohibition of unfair redundancies, paid holiday days, additional work payment, among other rights. Let us not let this instrument of regulation define, at the risk of continuing to fall back on labour rights, and we shall not have absolutely no rights, in our country, for those who work. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u44	For an intervention, Mr. Ricardo Bexiga has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members :I begin by stressing, from now on, the four major ideas underlying the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group's position on the legislative initiatives of the Left Block parliamentary groups and the CFP in terms of collective bargaining, which we are considering today. The first idea I would like to stress is that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is, as it has always been, on the front line of defence and the promotion of collective bargaining. It was collective contracting that always allowed workers and employers to find the best solutions to regulate labour relations in a framework of autonomy that always valued the representativeness of the stakeholders and the results achieved. It is through collective bargaining that economies become more dynamic, eliminating all the obstacles that social partners feel in the pursuit of common goals, such as the creation of more wealth and the creation of more and better employment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We are sure that collective bargaining is the most appropriate work policy instrument to overcome the new and ambitious challenges posed by accelerated changes in the labour market, particularly in the face of the new challenges of digitizing the economy and robotizing multiple productive activities. The second basic idea I would like to stress is that the PS defends, and will always defend, a decent and rights-based model of work. I would very much like to stress the idea that for the PS, work will always be a work with rights. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in this framework, labour negotiations cannot be restricted to the individual sphere of the worker, because the complexity of labour relations within the new economy requires answers that can only be reached through the intervention of the social partners in an open and participatory area of social dialogue. Thirdly, I would like to reaffirm the idea, several times assumed by the Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, that the competitive economy model that we defend does not, unlike other models, base on a low-wage strategy and the limitation of workers' rights. Don't! The PS is currently building a more developed country, with never before reached levels of economic growth, but also a fairer and more supportive country, because economic growth is clearly contributing to the re-evaluation of labour rights and to a more fair and balanced economy and a fairer form of wealth distribution. Fourthly, the PS argues that the regulation of the labour market and the framework of labour relations cannot be imposed by decree. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Laws are important to mark collective bargaining, but they can't be an instrument that atrophies and lowers them. The centrality of collective bargaining and social consultation cannot be claimed at the same time as it is based on legal solutions that effectively devalue it, which devalue the intervention of social partners, workers' representatives and employers' representatives. We are fighting for balanced and effective regulation of the labour market. We want to give voice and opportunity to the social partners to build new solutions to the new problems of the labour market, with a new spirit, a less centralist state, less tax and more open to the autonomy and maturity of social and economic actors. We face great challenges resulting from the accelerated change in the economy, including the framework for changes in global economic relations and technological changes in productive activity. I highlight the following challenges: economic regulation of the labour market, always giving priority to the development of conditions that create more and better jobs; overcoming the challenge of technological change, placing on the training and qualification of workers and valuing the value of work in the face of the robotization of tasks and new forms of work; affirming work as an essential tool for the creation of social justice, combating poverty and inequality; finally ensuring the future of work, ensuring regulatory frameworks that define red lines that cannot be overcome by the new models of the production organisation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We recognize that the dynamism of collective bargaining broke substantially by the labor policies of the previous government, PSD / CDS. We have discussed this issue a lot in this House, both in the number of conventions and collective agreements concluded, and in the number of workers covered. This reality is, in fact, very visible in the Green Paper on Labour Relations, which has just been published by the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, and it is now also visible that this scenario is changing, either in relation to the number of workers covered, or the number of collective agreements and contracts concluded, all of this is the result of the new PS government policies based on the ideas and objectives which I have already referred to. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These new results are, then, the result of the new policies of this government, which have achieved historical results in combating unemployment and job creation, these results that I want to warmly welcome here, and are also results derived from the contributions of all representatives of workers, entrepreneurs and social partners to the construction of a better, more developed Portugal, which generates more wealth and social justice in their daily struggle to create a new economy and a new more developed country. This trust and commitment are also reflected in the results of social dialogue, in particular in the tripartite compromise for a medium-term agreement. in this commitment, the Government and the social partners agreed on a set of measures to promote collective bargaining and promotion measures relating to the competitiveness of companies and the economic and social modernisation of the country. Thus, in this agreement, the guarantee of 18 months without waiver of collective agreements, the promotion of extension portals and the promotion of collective bargaining was enshrined. when this commitment is in force, when we also started an extended public debate of the Green Paper on Labour Relations and the main solutions to the problems identified in our labour market,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... when collective bargaining recovers its dynamism, giving voice and autonomy to the representatives of workers and employers, it is, in our view, extemporaneous to move forward with the occasional legislative amendments, not yet discussed with the social partners, who were presented here by the parliamentary groups of the PCP and the Left Block. in our view, these initiatives disrupt the current process of building new and better ways to achieve a balanced and effective relationship of the labour market that brings more employment, more social rights and more social justice. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u46	The Bureau records the registration of three Members to make requests for clarification, so I ask Mr. Ricardo Bexiga how he wishes to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u47	Mr President, I will answer together.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u48	Of course, Mr. Deputies. So first of all, to make requests for clarification by the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u49	Mr President, Mr. Ricardo Bexiga, the greatest devaluation of the negotiation between the social partners was to completely dismantle the collective system of labour relations, which has its main instrument in collective bargaining. And this has been done by legislative means and by a majority decision in this Parliament, which is the opposite of what should be the majority today, which is deciding here and which is voting here. Parliament must value this dialogue made by collective bargaining and ensure that it can exist in equilibrium. Now, the bills we present here today aim at one single goal: to rebalance what the law has profoundly unbalanced in favor of the bosses and, therefore, it is not clear how the Socialist Party does not follow us. If the Government has already acknowledged that, as it is, the law authorizes blackmail by the employers, which is incompatible with the increase in collective bargaining, if the Government has recognised it to the point of saying that 18 months should be suspended the application of the law, because it does not allow the collective bargaining to increase, then, Mr why should Parliament resign itself from ending these collective contracts that are in the law? What atrophies, what diminishes, what devalues collective bargaining is the law as it is and this law did not arise from heaven. It is up to Parliament to alter it. And, Mr, it is not worth having this debate invoking certain fictions. It is not the first time that this Parliament is discussing matters of employment — indeed, the Government itself has in its programme several positive changes to labour law, particularly in the field of combating precariousness. Now, the Socialist Party has not entered into its programme "in the field of work, we will do what the bosses leave". That is not what is in the Government's programme; what the Socialist Party has entered into the Government's programme has been concrete matters. In fact, the Socialist Party, I believe, will not break the Government's programme if the bosses do not agree, or if there is no consensus on these matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u50	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u51	And, honourable Member, if we look at other matters, we see that in this Parliament — I, as a Member, you, as a Member, all of us who sit here — we answer directly to the people, we do not respond to particular interests or to corporations and democracy is incompatible with the veto of a corporation or with the lowering of Parliament, as if it were atrophy and dependent on other bodies. This is not indeed our practice, Mr President. We have approved here several projects, such as a project on moral harassment, we are making changes to the Labour Code that are not being discussed at the centre of social consultation, we have approved these projects from the Left Block, PCP, PS and PAN. Mr President, do you know what employers' confederations have said to the Commission? They would say that these projects were making a social alarm and that the suggestion they had to combat moral harassment was not to move into the law. And you know what we told each other, sir? That, regardless of the bosses who did not want to move into the law, this Parliament was going to move into the law, approving the projects and hoping that we would get to good port in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u53	Therefore, Mr President, I believe that the Socialist Party should not use the biombo of social consultation to make a right-wing majority in this area so that the rules that have broken down collective bargaining continue in the law. Today there is the possibility that the left here will change these standards, be faithful to itself and be faithful to the principle of valuing collective bargaining, collective bargaining, respect for the dignity of those who work and the principle of the most favourable treatment, which is a basic principle of labour law, and we hope that the Socialist Party can still consider this. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u54	To request clarification, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u55	Mr President, Mr Bexiga, we have listened carefully to your intervention in this debate and the question we want to put to you has to do with the requirement that words should be passed on to acts in a consistent and effective manner in the face of the positions that are taken. The Socialist Party already here today reaffirmed the importance of collective bargaining, the need to defend and respect, but the question that arises is that of the concrete meaning of these statements in the real life of workers and businesses. Looking at the concrete situation of the workers of Petrogal, of their struggle to defend collective bargaining, of the rights that are being attacked in an unacceptable way by the company administration, the question before what the honourable Member has said is: then, and goes from there, Mr...? Oh, my God! The situation as a negotiating boycott imposed by the Petrogal administration is paradigmatic of the impunity with which the patronate acts against the workers and representative trade unions...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u56	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u57	... and what we have witnessed, unfortunately by the Ministry, is the resignation of the exercise of its powers, in particular the duty to ensure the resolution of labour conflicts and to promote collective bargaining, and active intervention, explicitly supporting the attacks of the administration against workers. On the one hand, the publication of the notice of expiry of the autonomous agreement, contrary to the commitment made by the Government not to publish any notice of termination until legislative measures are taken on this regime—and here we are doing - and on the other hand, issuing orders, real anti-crive orders to limit the effective exercise of workers' right to strike are concrete examples of the option chosen by the Ministry of Labour to strengthen the power of administration. All of this happens, Mr President, when the reasons presented by the administration on economic difficulties to denounce an agreement were false, and three years after the complaint of the agreement that was made, the profits of the company exceeded EUR 1,5 billion. This is the situation we are seeing, Mr President! Another specific case which we have to put here to the consideration of the honourable Member, in order to speak about it, is the following: in relation to Transtejo and Soflusa, we have been informed on 20 April that the Ministry of Finance does not authorize the company agreement, which was signed in December between the administration and the workers and which currently puts collective bargaining in these companies, to be applied and entered into force. The constitutional right to collective bargaining and the freedom to sign collective agreements is at stake. In fact, the question we have raised is that, in a framework of labour conflict, which is already behind that company, it is getting worse with this government action and that is what disturbs the normality of labour relations, Mr President. Negotiation and collective bargaining cannot be conditioned by mechanisms of blackmail, pressure and an inequality of weapons that becomes even more serious when the State puts itself in a position contrary to workers, their interests and their rights. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u58	For a final request for clarification, Mr.António Carlos Monteiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u59	Mr President, Mr. Ricardo Bexiga, is it true or not that the current low unemployment rate occurs with the work reform carried out by the previous Government? [[Ah...!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u60	Is it worth continuing to deny that? Is it worth continuing to deny that the legislation, which was approved by the previous government, PSD / CDS, has allowed job creation and the fall in unemployment rate which is now a cause for pride for all of us? Is it true that there is a recovery of collective bargaining with the same legislation? There are no arguments against this. And it is good for the Socialist Party to start to be clearer. After all, when does collective consultation count or doesn't count? When is social consultation relevant or not? When does the PS give its partners to the left and when does it not? It was important for us to know what the Socialist Party intends to do in terms of labour matters. We know that there would have been a commitment by Mr. Prime Minister when the left has led the agreement to increase the minimum wage, that he would not interfere in labour legislation, particularly in terms of collective bargaining, without going to social consultation in 2017. The truth is that the PS has come to say that it is not so, but the evidence of the facts—and the PS has just announced this right here—is that it will vote against these amendments. That is to say, what they tell us is one thing, but the truth is, all the initiatives of your left-wing partners have been plunged. Therefore, it is appropriate for the PS to clarify this contradiction and, in particular, to provide assurances as to whether it can be approved here in the Assembly of the Republic, with the majority that serves to support the Government, the agreements to be entered into within the framework of social consultation. We are therefore most curious to know whether you are in a position to give that same assurance. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u61	Mr. Ricardo Bexiga, when I gave the floor to Mr.António Carlos Monteiro, the PSD Parliamentary Group called for the Bureau, saying that it had forgotten to write to Mrs. Susana Lamas for further clarifications. Does the honourable Member see any drawbacks in which I give the floor to the honourable Member?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u62	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u63	I ask you this question only on an organisational basis, because if you knew that there were four requests for clarification, you might want to organize your answer differently. Not being the case, I'm going to give the floor to Mrs. Susana Lamas.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u64	Mr President, Mr. Ricardo Bexiga, it is clear from this debate that the intent of the PCP, which brings tow the Left Block, is to reverse the labour reform carried out by the previous Government, is to reverse the reform that made contracting easier, is to reverse the reform that made the work regime more flexible and gave the employers confidence. We said that this reform would yield results in the medium term, and these results are in sight: employment has increased and unemployment has decreased. We have already stated in this plenary, and we have done so again, that for the PSD to dynamize collective bargaining is, and has always been, an essential objective, because we consider collective bargaining to be a fundamental instrument in regulating labour relations. It is through responsible negotiation between those on the ground, in the world of work, who better knows the conditions and needs, that a better resolution of labour issues is achieved, a greater pacification of labour relations. For the PSD this cannot be done on the margins of social consultation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u65	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u66	It is in the dialogue with the social partners that the effective dynamisation of collective bargaining is achieved.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u67	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u68	The PSD has always had a clear position on this matter. We have always respected social dialogue and we believe that any change, or any improvement, of labour legislation cannot be made on the edge of dialogue with workers, employers and social partners. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we know the government's statements and the positions of the radical left parties and therefore I address my questions to the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group. We know that the Prime Minister has been saying that it is not worth always being involved in labour legislation and that what needs to be done is to strengthen social dialogue. The Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security has also made it clear that he does not intend to change the legal framework on the expiry of collective agreements or on the principle of more favourable treatment. In fact, both are the claims of your coalition partners, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. We also know the initiatives of the PCP and the Left Block, and in fact clear bills that well illustrate their positions. They well illustrate the disrespect for social consultation,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u69	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u70	... they well illustrate the disrespect of the government that supports and well illustrates its imprisonment to the past, to the dogmas that crystallize them, such statues of salt.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u71	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u72	So, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Socialist Party, the question I put is this: how do you see this attitude of your coalition partners? How does it feel to see a coalition partner ignore what the government says? How does it feel to hear your coalition partner call you retrograde and late? Your coalition partners do not respect social dialogue, they do not respect the supportive government that they know is negotiating with the social partners, they are only concerned about their own ideological agendas.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u73	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u74	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u75	They are turned to the past, they forget that it is necessary to look at the future of the labour market, to try not to disconnect the collective conventions of economic and social reality...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u76	The boss's pocket!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u77	...to not sacrifice companies or jobs.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u78	The jobs!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u79	So, ladies. Members of the Socialist Party, how will the PS vote these initiatives? The PS will return to the time when it diabolizes the solution of expiry, look back and turn salt statue,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u80	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u81	... or will you respect the commitments of social consultation and vote against the claims of your coalition partners? What is your position after all?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u82	All right! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u83	To reply, Mr. Ricardo Bexiga has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u84	Mr President, first of all I should like to thank the Members of the various parliamentary groups for their questions. With regard to the questions put by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy adopted by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy adopted by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the proposal for a Council Directive on the approximation of the laws of the Member States relating to the approximation of the laws of the Member States [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u85	I would like to stress, firstly, that the principle of the most favourable treatment and also the rule of expiry have not been removed from our Labour Code. As you know, existing legislative solutions have a regulatory framework that can guard what are red lines that respond to many of the concerns that have been presented here. What the Government here has said, in particular through the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, and we share, is that there is a time of reflection, there is a time to assess together with the social partners which are the best solutions, especially because the problems that, indeed, the labour market and the labour market have not only those that are the best. Mr José Soeiro and Mr Bruno Dias mentioned here. We have very complex problems, especially those which I have had the opportunity to present in my speech, and which we want to resolve. For example, the solution here for the reversal of the expiry rule, basically returning to the solution we had in the 2003 Labour Code, in our view, does not solve the problems because the problems we have today are very different from those we had in 2003. The problems that exist today in the labour relationship, in a framework of profound change in the economy, globalisation, technological innovation, which lead to the danger of job destruction, the new forms of work, all these new issues must be the subject of a solution and cannot be crystallized by decree, maintaining perpetual solutions that are negotiated at a given time by employers and representatives of workers but must be renewed. We understand that the Government is on the right track and that it is in this framework and in this perspective that the PS Parliamentary Group will be involved in the debate and in the construction of new solutions, in the light of what we know today through the Green Paper, which I have mentioned, and it is also in this framework that we will, together, be sure to find solutions that create, as I also said in my speech, more and better employment, which is one of our main concerns. In reply to Mr António Carlos Monteiro, I would like to say that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, unlike many positions that its Parliamentary Group as well as that of the PSD, has no positions of mere tactics or political strategy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u86	All right! No more! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u87	Our concerns do not go back to gaining more or less political space. Our concerns are, indeed, to solve people's problems, particularly those that, unfortunately, have most affected your policies and that have brought more problems to Portuguese society. The creation of employment — and I would like to quote Mr President of the Republic, who answered directly the question posed to me — is, in fact, the result of economic growth,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u88	Well, no more!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u89	...and economic growth has to do with the policies of this government and not with the policies of your government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is that your government's policies have created more poverty,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u91	... it was the closure of companies, it was the bankruptcy of small and medium-sized enterprises, it was economic results that led Portugal to the tail of Europe.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u92	It was the poverty of the families!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u93	And what we achieved, through these new policies, was indeed a more developed country, growing and, above all, fairer and more solidarity. Mrs Susana Lamas, I don't think you've been paying attention to my speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u94	I've been written!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u95	Our position is that at the moment we do not vote in favour of the proposals put forward by the Left Block and the CFP. As I have already said in my reply to the honourable Members. Members of the Left Block and the PCP, we share the concerns, but we do not share the solutions and, therefore, we will vote against these bills. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u96	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Clara Marques Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u97	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This PCP initiative, accompanied by the same bill of the Left Block, does not surprise anyone, not even the most innocent or the most distracted. First, because we're in time of 1. the May one and, at this time, when it loads most in the claiming DNA, the PCP and the Left Block can keep track of the dynamics of the street. It is part of the political choreography and manuals of how to make politics only « to elect to see? Do not keep on seeking. ” [[PSD applause.]] Then, because in recent times, as the CFP and the Left Block have been forced to accept many measures to support the government of « management », they feel the need to prove life; they try to show that they have their own life, that they have autonomous initiative and that they kick the PS and government. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, all seen and added, this debate does not go beyond an exercise of two realities: on the one hand, it reaffirms the constant political competition that always exists between the PCP and the Left Block — one presents one project, the other does not waste time and presents similar initiative;...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u98	Mrs Deputy looks like a sports commentator!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u99	... on the other hand, both do everything to supplement the old maximum according to which it is necessary for something to change in shape so that in substance everything remains in the same.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u100	What about the substance of things? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u101	It is exactly what PCP and Left Block do: they present here bills so that, in the end, duly rejected, everything remains cordially in it. This is the only political reading of this debate. But more than this, Mr. Members: this is the hypocrisy of the political action of the parties to the left of the management.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u102	What about the collective contract? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u103	Pretend, embrace, climb the decibels and do it — everything to try to distract. And just to try to distract and disguise them, because there is no other option left, but to be on the mercy of the one who will come to be the will of the government that supports in this matter of collective bargaining.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u104	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u105	Are you going to talk about it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to political reading, the issue we are dealing with today — the issue of collective bargaining — has a history that needs to be remembered. The story begins in 2011 with a Memorandum of Understanding signed by the socialist government and the troika. Then the story shows us a broad social dialogue. Everything that the PCP and the Left Block now want to tear up originated in a social agreement in 2012 concluded by the PSD/CDS government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u107	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u108	It is true that we were in the time of the troika, it is true that the Memorandum of Understanding signed by the Government of José Socrates pointed to this reform. But it is no less true and true that this reform was preceded by a broad debate on social dialogue and legitimized by a broad and important agreement with the social partners. In other words, the PCP and the Left Block do not want to respect social consultation, they do not want to value the role of the social partners. [[PSD applause.]] The PCP and the Left Block do not want to respect employers and, above all, do not want to respect workers. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the history of this matter is not left in the past, it remains in the present and is a very relevant story and deserves our full attention. Despite everything the PCP and the Left Block say, the changes introduced in labour law do not represent harm either against employment or against workers, on the contrary; from years to years to this part, particularly since 2014, unemployment falls and employment increases, and this has to do with the modernisation that was introduced in 2012 in labour law. This may be difficult to hear who is government today and has always been begging the contrary, but it is the naked and raw truth: the structural reforms that have been made in the past — including that of labour legislation — are today giving positive results for the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u109	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u110	And this is seen in the generation of jobs and the reduction of unemployment. That's why, sirs. Members, it is not surprising that, at a time when low unemployment and employment are rising, the high priority of the CFP and the Left Block should be to reverse a significant part of the legislation that causes these changes in order to improve employment and reduce unemployment. This is the politics of the burned earth in its splendor. After all, it is appropriate to say: the years pass but the archaic and conservative way of making politics remains unchanged. It is therefore essential that, in view of these positions of the PCP and the Left Block, the Government and the Socialist Party say exactly what they think and what they want to do. It is important that they say exactly what they think about collective bargaining and what they will present to the social partners. It is therefore essential that the Government cease to carry out empty speeches, round speeches, to see time pass and simply to feed « management ». For us, sirs. Members, we maintain the same consistency as always: collective bargaining is an important instrument for regulating labour relations and the amendments introduced by the PSD/CDS government were in order to dynamize collective bargaining, in fact, the data known for 2016 show precisely that this objective is being achieved. Revoking what was previously approved, as part of labour legislation, would be tragic for the country and worst for investment, with all the negative consequences that would happen from there both for employment and for workers. We do not align ourselves with the retrograde view of those who only know how to look back and those who have long stopped in time, as we do not follow the demagogies of those who, obsessed with purely ideological issues, are unable to act with balance, pragmatism and sense of responsibility. Today as always, in the government as in the opposition, we are guided by principles and convictions. Therefore, today as in the past, we are advocates of the principles of social dialogue and of the highest national interest! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u111	To request clarification from Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, Mrs Wanda Guimarães. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u112	Mr President, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, some clarification. For a long time now, the Memorandum of Understanding has been mentioned, and is mentioned simultaneously as a very bad thing — at the time of the Socrates Government — and as an excellent thing, when it actually gives rise to the growth and development of collective bargaining. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So let's see if the so-called Memorandum of Understanding was good or bad or if it was possible in the situation we were living at the time. And now I am adding that the so-called Memorandum of Understanding, which you, in fact, often bring to bear, has also been signed by your parliamentary groups and therefore also have your share of responsibility.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u113	It wasn't, no! She's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u114	I would like to ask Mrs Clara Marques Mendes how it can be considered positive the situation she described, with regard to the PSD Government / CDS, when, at the end of her Government, of 1, 5 million workers who were covered by collective bargaining, we passed to 249 000, during the years 2013 / 2014, i.e. in the full PSD / CDS government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u115	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u116	... leaving without coverage 1, 250 million workers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would like you to tell me how this can be positive for collective bargaining and for the development of working relationships. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u117	In reply, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u118	Mr President, first of all I thank Mrs Wanda Guimarães for her question and I would like to tell her that in my speech I recalled the story and said that this history of collective bargaining and labour law began in 2011 with the Memorandum of Understanding.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u119	What about the Code Bagon Félix? Oh, my God! Doesn't it exist? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u120	And he also said that in 2012 he had an important support in social dialogue, but now I would like to make it clear — the honourable Member may not remember — that it was possible to find balances that were not properly guarded in the Memorandum of Understanding signed by the Socialist Government. Madam Member, would you like me to remind you of the story and tell you that the result of these negative aspects that you have mentioned was bankruptcy? Oh, my God! Do you know who that bankruptcy is? It connects with the socialist government, which has left the country without money! [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u121	Therefore, with regard to the negative consequences, the honourable Member could have taken the time to apologize to the Portuguese for the state in which they left the country and for what made people go through. [[PSD applause.]] More, Mrs Deputies: because of her speech, I could not understand what the Socialist Party's position is, after all, because the Socialist Party continues to say that the moment is extemporaneous, the Socialist Party continues to say that it is in favour of social dialogue, but suddenly criticizes what is in the Labour Code. Mr. Members, they define themselves, especially because workers deserve balance and stability. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u122	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Paulo Sá.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The employer has never complied with the loss of unilateral power to dictate the rules in working relations, he has always sought by all means to block collective bargaining. It is not uncommon for collective bargaining to pay and confer rights under conditions which are clearly more favourable to workers than is provided for in the Labour Code. And that's exactly why collective bargaining has been the target of systematic attack by employers' associations and successive governments. A paradigmatic example of this attack is that of the Portuguese Insurance Association. On the issue of amendments to the Labour Code, imposed in 2003 by a PSD/CDS Government, in particular the rules that allow for the expiry of the conventions and eliminate the principle of the most favourable treatment for workers, the Portuguese Insurance Association has denounced the collective working convention and has for years tried to publish the notice on the cessation of its validity. In the light of a judgement by the Supreme Court of Justice that denied it this claim, the Portuguese Insurance Association, in October 2015, decided to amend its statutes in order to no longer have the capacity to grant collective labour agreements and, in this way, to proceed to the denunciation of collective bargaining with the National Insurance and Afinas Trade Union. In other words, the employer of the insurance area acted badly, resorting to a plaintiff file to attack collective bargaining and workers' rights,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u124	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u125	... such as the duration of working hours and the organisation of working hours, the payment of additional work, the premium of seniority, the supplementation of order, the payment of service expenses, among many others. This situation requires decisive action by the Government and in particular by the Working Conditions Authority ( ACT ), thereby recovering from this abuse and ensuring full respect for collective bargaining and the rights of workers in the insurance sector. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u126	Mr Pedro Roque has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u127	Mr President, first of all, I would like to congratulate Mr Paulo Sá and congratulate him on his speech. I wanted to question it as follows: the most recent data on collective bargaining demonstrate that it has been growing...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u128	And how good she is! Beautiful!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u129	...and that has grown from the last year to the present. There is, in fact, a study that demonstrates it well. Therefore, the legislation we have, the Labour Code and the amendments that were introduced to it, which were negotiated in social consultation and were drawn up in the social agreement of January 2012, despite being adjectived by VV. As it is, it allows for collective bargaining, allows employers' associations and business associations to bilaterally negotiate and improve conditions for a given sector in relation to what is already in the Labour Code. So what I ask you is how you heal this contradiction, that is, on the one hand, the diabolization of existing labour legislation and, on the other hand, the virtualities of that same legislation, which can stimulate collective bargaining in this country. How do you see this issue? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u130	To reply, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u131	Mr President, Mr Pedro Roque, the example I gave here today of the work of the Portuguese Insurance Association rejects exactly what Mr said and shows the fairness of the CFP proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u132	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u133	And, with regard to your question about how the development of collective bargaining has been explained in recent years, I would like to give you only this number: in 2003 when a PSD and CDS government attacked collective bargaining by amending the Labour Code, there were 1 5 million workers covered by collective bargaining; in 2013 10 years later, this number was 241,000 workers. This shows exactly what your option was, and that of the CDS, when they made that amendment to the Labour Code in 2003 of the responsibility of the PSD/CDS Government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u134	Your objective was exactly this: drastically reducing the number of workers covered by collective bargaining, in order to cut rights to these workers. That is what has happened and therefore the CFP proposals are precisely going against: it is necessary to guarantee and defend the rights of workers, which is why we are presenting these proposals here today. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u135	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia now speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, it is not too much to remember that we are here discussing this matter by impulse of a legislative instrument of the PCP, like what happened last week, with the use of an equal power instrument by the Left Block. in both cases, both parties wanted to bring to the discussion concrete and punctual matters of the contract of work. It is impossible not to withdraw from this evidence that, for these parties, the total repeal of all the articles and rules that have incorporated the latest labour reform does not seem to be urgent. It is that if they only discuss the topical aspects of current labour legislation, this means that at least they are already in line with the essential of this reform, which is good news for the country. And it is good news for the country, because today neither the PCP nor the Left Block really have the courage to deny the evidence of the facts, that this legislation has brought dynamism to the labour market and, essentially, has contributed to the dynamisation of the labour market, to the dynamisation of the economy, to the creation of jobs and to the reduction of unemployment. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u137	Let us therefore not forget this context. But in addition, this initiative that the CFP here brings to us clearly has an express agenda and an implicit agenda, and it is good that we stop on both. The agenda, as it is obvious, concerns collective bargaining and, on collective bargaining, it is clear in this debate that the PCP and the Left Block are today in a corner of a room, in a corner of the country, very little to say about the modernization and current demands of work reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u138	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u139	All that they have said is clearly contrary to the facts. No, it is not true that changes in labour legislation have taken on board the importance of collective bargaining; no, it is not true that collective bargaining is declining. For example, it is sufficient to address the recently published Green Paper, where it is read well that between 2014 and 1015 the number of workers covered by the collective contract doubled, i.e. more than 100 %. This is the reality that tells us, documents as suspicious as the Green Paper. The international institutions themselves are clear to say that the changes that have been introduced into labour legislation have aimed, well, to introduce greater representativeness, greater dynamism and greater capacity to affirm collective contracts, and that is precisely what is happening. It's just, ladies and gentlemen. Members, collective bargaining is, as the name itself indicates, a contract. It presupposes an agreement of wills and there is a need for instruments that lead to collective bargaining gains for both parties, gains for workers and gains, also for employers, because that is the only way to find the dynamism that the hiring itself presupposes. The gentlemen. Members who wish to withdraw from collective bargaining this dimension of an effort to agree will are, in fact, compromising their efficiency, their ability to assert themselves and are treating collective bargaining as something of the past, merely demanding and ideological, that nothing contributes to the creation of jobs. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u140	But he also said that this marking today has an implicit agenda, which is not said here but is underlying the whole debate we have had here. This agenda is very clear and checks the Government and the Socialist Party. The implicit agenda is this: what is the legitimacy of the government when it sits with the social partners and when it states that it has conditions to ensure the implementation of social agreements?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u141	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u142	This is because, as we have seen in the past —...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u143	All right! [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u144	I repeat, we have seen in the past, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, and the country has witnessed with great dramatism, the government has no means to negotiate what the social partners are willing to ensure.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u145	Is there an example? Give an example!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u146	This happened, for example, with the single social rate and with the conditions under which the last social agreement was concluded, in which the Government had to amend its hand, because it was unable to avenge the word which it signed with its social partners. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] And that is what the PCP and the Left Block are saying here, by bringing this matter to the vote. And the government needs to know that it cannot be playing with the social partners and much less with the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u147	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u148	That's what it's worth saying: social consultation is not, it's not a cattle market! It is not a cattle fair with the social partners, it should not be a cattle fair with the parties that support the majority of this government and that they are constantly giving themselves camping and quickly changing their words and doing one thing one day and the other day.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u149	in the cattle fairs "the word given is an honest word"!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u150	That is what this debate shows us, and that is what is at stake. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u151	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As is public and well known, the various changes that labour legislation has suffered in recent years, whether in the private sector or in the public sector, have brought very negative elements for those who work and have come to stress imbalance in labour relations with serious damage to workers. Let us see: first, it was the 2003 Labour Code, which weakened fundamental aspects of the right to collective bargaining, especially with regard to the introduction of the expiry of collective conventions, but also with the possibility of collective conventions being able to lay down less favourable rules for workers than those provided for in the law. The objective was clear: to challenge the principle of treatment that is more favourable to the worker and to contradict the very nature of collective labour agreements, because they also aim to establish working conditions that are more favourable to the worker than those resulting from labour laws. Then there were other amendments, or revisions, to the Labour Code, but in the same sense, that is, in order to aggravate imbalance in labour relations and always with serious damage to those who work. Since the 2014 review, when the PSD/CDS government, in addition to other attacks to which it works, decided to facilitate redundancies and make compensation cheaper in case of dismissal, was a real invitation to dismissal and a great way that PSD and CDS ended up doing to employers—one more, say to pass. It has happened that successive changes to labour law have not only weakened workers' rights, still blocked negotiation and weakened the right to collective bargaining. in this context, it is not new for anyone to say that the previous government had a serious problem with our constitution, also in the field of labour. contrary to Article 56 ( 4 ). that of the constitutional text, the former Government promoted the appearance of contractual voids when what it should do, in constitutional terms, was to ensure the effectiveness of the rules of collective bargaining. More: the previous Government has also made an effort to amend by legislation the rules which had been freely agreed by the parties in the context of collective bargaining, which Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has now designated as a "favour meeting", which is always respectable, but which the PSD/CDS Government has sought, by legislative means, to amend.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u153	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u154	That is why none of us will need to make a great effort to remember, and even bear in mind, that the former PSD/CDS Government deliberately assumed, as a purpose of its labour policies, the generalization of precariousness, the degradation of working conditions and the attempt to reduce labour and social rights. It is this policy, this way of looking at the workers, this way of looking at those who work that The Greens understand that it must be reversed, from the outset because, when we talk about collective bargaining, it should be borne in mind that we are talking about a right with constitutional relevance, that we are talking about a right gained through the struggle of generations of workers and workers, that we are talking about an important instrument in terms of the distribution of wealth produced and the improvement of the living conditions of families. It is still an important element in economic and social development. And, therefore, it is necessary to ensure that the fundamental right of negotiation is not disturbed or weakened, it is necessary to prevent the will of labour relations based on the law of the strongest, through the individual labour contract, from continuing to mark our work reality. It is therefore necessary to ensure that no collective contract can expire without being replaced by another one, in order to prevent the workers covered by it from being covered only by the Labour Code and it is also necessary to ensure that the principle of the most favourable treatment to the worker is met, which prevents the application of working conditions below those laid down in the general labour law. It is therefore necessary to restore some balance in labour relations and, in our view, both the Government and this House have every opportunity to move forward. Social consultation may be very important, but when we talk about social consultation, it would be prudent not to reverse the premises or at least to try not to reverse them. Social consultation must be heard, but the decision is for the Government and the Assembly of the Republic. Therefore, because it is fair and because it is necessary to restore some balance in labour relations, it is at least necessary to ensure the revocation of the expiry of collective labour conventions, to apply, effectively and unequivocally, the automatic renewal of these conventions and to re-establish the principle of treatment most favourable to the worker. With these measures we will not only restore the minimum balance in labour relations and restore some dignity to those who work but also promote social justice. So there is political will on the part of this House. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u155	There are no entries for clarification, Mr Soeiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u156	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What has happened in recent years on this matter of collective bargaining is known. There was indeed a dismantling of the system of collective labour relations that we had and there was an allocation to employers, employers, of a unilateral power that allows them to denounce the conventions and make them an empty one. at the same time, the very content of the collective conventions was degraded and a sea of precariouss, which are expelled, are out of the social contract itself. That the CDS and PSD do not recognize this is strange, because the numbers are overwhelming: we have 1, 8 million workers covered by collective conventions and, in 2013, following the work reform of the 2012 CDS, we have passed to 241,000 workers covered by collective conventions. They're historical minimums! [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Filipe Anacoreta Correia.]] They're historical minimums. And if we are now watching, and even well, an increase in the number of people covered by collective bargaining, blackmail continues, coverage continues to be reduced and the contents of the conventions continue to be lower, and worse, than those of the general law.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u157	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u158	And, therefore, it is not worth figuring a communion of interests, said Mr. Member of the CDS, between the employer and the worker, as if there were no power relations, dependency relations and relationships between two parties, which are unequal. It is not worth camouflaging that the imbalance introduced enshrines the possibility of a contractual dictatorship on the strongest side. That's what's in the law right now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u159	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u160	Mr President, the CDS is sorry to come here to pay tribute to the importance of the social partners, to negotiation, because the CDS that came here today is the same as yesterday saying that the participation of these social partners, for example in the process of integration of precariouss, was a way of institutionalizing the joint venture. The CDS, if you have any shame in your face,... [[Protests by CDS Member Filipe Anacoreta Correia.]] ... should have taken advantage of this debate to make an apology to the precariouss, which yesterday insulted the committees of workers, which represent these precariouss and which yesterday offended,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u161	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u162	...and the union movement, as a whole, which was slandered by the CDS. I should have taken advantage of an apology. [[Congratulations from BE.]] I leave a note, just to finish: Members of the Socialist Party, in particular Mr Ricardo Bexiga, the new issues and new challenges of work and the economy are not resolved by giving the employers the possibility of unilaterally expiring a collective convention or allowing them to impose concrete content on these conventions, which are worse, more unfavourable than those in general law. What the law does today is to recognize and stimulate this unilateral power of employers. It is basically to enshrine this imbalance, which is the most backward, the most conservative that can have labour legislation, which is to enshrine this possibility of employers' despotism in collective bargaining. That is what we need to make decisions today. [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u163	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u164	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that on collective bargaining, what the Socialist Party today has told us is that it has the same concerns as the left, but it has the same solutions as the right. We know, Mr President, that right-wing solutions are not the solutions that serve those who live in your work. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u165	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u166	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is through collective bargaining that significant progress is made in working conditions and the establishment of a very large set of determining rights to improve the living conditions of workers, particularly workers in the textile sector. The employer has never complied with this situation and an example of this is the position adopted since 2014 by the Association Textile and Clothing of Portugal ( ATP ), which, anchored in the policy of exploitation and impoverishment carried out by the PSD / CDS government, aims to withdraw various rights to workers, highlighting the theft of Carnival and municipal holidays, the reduction of overtime payment, the increase of holidays, the reduction of the annual pay of shift workers in the amount of €470 and the non-payment of the grant of women to textile workers. In other words, what the employer association wants is to increase the exploitation of workers and reduce their remuneration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u167	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u168	Although there is an opinion of the Directorate-General for Employment and Labour Relations ( DGERT ) which concludes by the non-expiry of the collective contract, the companies of the sector, associated with ATP, continue to withdraw the rights of workers, as happened recently in a company in Vila Nova de Famalicão, Riopele. To the tens of workers of this company who dared to enjoy the Carnival holiday was marked an unjustified and discounted absence of a day's wage.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u169	Democrat!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u170	This situation is unsustainable and requires the revocation of expiry and the reintroduction, in its entirety, of the most favourable treatment principle. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u171	To speak, Mr Adam Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u172	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Social Democratic Party believes that labour laws are not untouchable, nor immutable. What we also believe is that this debate today proposed by the CFP, in order to obstinately want to change labour legislation which has had very positive results for Portugal, is at least absurd.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u173	You still heard an example!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u174	It is, in fact, absurd for the CFP and now the Left Block — but I will be there — to change legislation that works well, which translates into a good response to what is the great ambition of the Portuguese: to have more employment, to have less unemployment, to have more economy, to have better employment and to have better distribution of wealth that employment can always provide. But we are not against changing labour law,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u175	They're only against when it suits them!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u176	... we understand that this amendment should be motivated by very objective reasons, such as, for example, a need to create jobs, an increased need to combat unemployment, a need to correct and correct labour law with the challenges of the world of the economy, and also, now, a need to create more decent jobs and better distribution of wealth. That is why we understand that this exercise of the CFP today is an absurd exercise, which is not understood, except for ideological and union obstinacy. In fact, we do not even understand how one of the reasons that supports the argumentary this afternoon of the PCP, which is the increase in collective bargaining, is clearly failed, because still recently the Labour Relations Centre, which is a institute of the Ministry of Labour, has been saying that since 2014 collective bargaining has increased, the number of collective bargaining agreements and the number of workers covered by collective bargaining. So I ask: why is this obstinacy of the PCP and now also of the Left Block?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u177	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u178	Start being unbearable. Why? Because last week the Left Block tried to anticipate what the PCP inadvertently announced it would do on day 4. That is, the CFP has come to say: « On day 4 we will have a positive agenda to discuss the labour laws».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u179	The collective contract!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u180	They've been fooled! You were caught because, soon after, the Left Block, taking advantage of the power schedule, preceded the debate and you had to go after the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u181	It's about the lives of the people we're talking about!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u182	You should be more cautious, Mr. João Oliveira. But, truly, there is a competition exercise here, almost a sort of race, to see which of them comes first and is more unionist, whether it is the PCP or the Left Block, starred by Deputy Rita Rato, on the one hand, and by Mr José Soeiro on the other. That's enough! This obviously has no interest in the Portuguese! Your quarrel to see who comes first does not matter to the Portuguese, until in this race unbridled between Deputy Rita Rato and Mr José Soeiro, with all due respect, Mr José Soeiro would lose. I would lose, but it would be for nothing but because Mrs Rita Rato would be taken to the lap by the CGTP, pass the expression. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u183	There's no longer patience for tasteless jokes!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u184	Finally, on the issue of this obstinacy, I must say that, in some way, this obstinacy refers us to a point which I think is important, which is the reading of society. There are those who look back, into the past, and say: "No, in the past it was good! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” And there are those who look at the present and the future and say: "It is necessary to fight the challenges that society today has! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” We have a globalized economy, a digitalized economy, work relations completely altered by these two structural factors, unemployment that must be combated, because it is the main source of poverty, and you look at the past, renounce the present and the future. Your focus is the past, well manifested in various circumstances.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u185	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u186	It's no use! It is necessary to look at the present, to look at the future and to give answers to workers, entrepreneurs and the world of work, a decent work, where everyone can participate as an essential element of the distribution of wealth. Is that a PS? Ah! The PS clearly does not want to know about this matter. The PS is looking through the raindrops. The PS somehow tries to maintain a balanced exercise, not Mrs Rita Rato said, she actually likes walls: "The PS is on a wall! », that means so much can fall on one side as it can fall on the other. It was obviously very important for the PS to say which side of the wall it is that it wants to fall, because the PS is government right now, and agreed that it would not be on Mondays, Wednesdays and Fridays on one side and on Tuesdays, Thursdays and Saturdays on the other, and Sundays, which is the Lord's day, is to rest.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u187	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u188	It can't be! The PS needs to be defined. You need to know if the PS is with the past or with the future. It is necessary to know whether the PS is with labour legislation where dialogue prevails, commitment in social consultation, or whether it is also with its coalition partners, through a unionization of this process, a street struggle, a "CGTPization" of labour law. And that, obviously, can't be! Now, the important thing is to discuss matters that relate to work, to labour legislation and that have practically gone quietly in this debate, particularly that of productivity. We realize that the PS is not interested in this debate, but it is fundamental, because, above all, productivity is. productivity is that the wealth of a nation, of productivity is that it comes the wealth that must be distributed to create more social equality, and therefore productivity is a factor of the greatest importance. The Banco de Portugal, in the report released yesterday, says that productivity is a worrying factor and requires urgent investment. In fact, productivity fell in 2016.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u189	The President of the Republic is hurting the record!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u190	Why don't you say what's important? Productivity in Portugal, with this Government of the Socialist Party, has fallen! And we need to figure out why it fell! It is that productivity, I repeat, is an essential factor for the dynamization of the labour market, for the dynamization of employment, for the creation of wealth, for the independence of the country and for the distribution of this same wealth. The Socialist Party doesn't want to know. The Block and the PCP want only labor legislation, they want to run a race to see which one of them is the most unionist. It was really important to know what is happening with this precise productivity of public, private, national and foreign investment. And we know that was a disgrace!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u191	Call on the President of the Republic to say it's a disgrace!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u192	In 2016, it was a real disgrace what happened with regard to investment in Portugal, of course, guilt of the Socialist Party government. I repeat, and conclude, Mr President, we need labour laws that are properly negotiated in what is a very important instrument, a fundamental institution in Portugal, which is social consultation. Portugal has shown that it knows how to do collective bargaining, which knows how to negotiate between partners, which knows how to make laws with commitment. It has shown that it knows how to make labour legislation that gives confidence and stability to investment, growth and employment; a labour law that creates greater wealth and more and better employment for all Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u193	To close the debate, Mr João Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u194	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The rights of workers are not defended by threatening expiry of contracts which provide for them. Negotiating new contracts cannot be an operation made with the sword of expiry on the head of the contracts in force. The introduction of expiry in labour legislation by the PSD Government / CDS, through the Code « Bagão Félix », served only one objective: to give the patronate a weapon to remove a generation of labour rights that were provided for in collective contracts, which at the time covered 1,500 000 workers. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, what we heard today again from the PSD and CDS are exactly the same arguments in 2003. In the name of modernity, in the name of the development and technological change of labour relations, it was necessary to change labour legislation in order to stimulate collective bargaining. Ladies and gentlemen. PSD and CDS members, in 10 years, from 2003 to 2013, there were 241 000 workers covered by new collective labour conventions. This is the result of the farce that you sold in 2003. [[Protests by PSD MP Maria das Mercês Borges.]] There was no dynamisation of collective bargaining, yes, there were settlement of collective contracts with a set of rights associated with them.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u195	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u196	We have heard in this debate again the same arguments that the PSD and the CDS do not dispense, as they said in 2003: it is necessary to lapse the rights to force workers to negotiate under worse conditions, being forced to disregard their rights, being threatened by expiry to accept the degradation of working conditions, to accept rules that impose a more unjust distribution of wealth. They say, "Mrs." Members of the PSD and the CDS and also Mrs Wanda Guimarães of the Socialist Party, who before 2003 had expired there were collective contracts that were only renewed in relation to wages. Well, it was! And it wasn't much anymore! Renegotiating a collective contract to ensure wage increases is not a small thing! But the truth, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is only that, after expiry is introduced into labour law today, even to increase wages, contracts are renewed. Today, neither the aspects that have been discussed before are discussed, nor the wages are renegotiated with a view to increasing them. Says the PSD : « Expiration is not an evil ». I would like to hear Mrs Clara Marques Mendes say this to the workers of Petrogal, the textiles sector, the hotel, the SAMS, some of whom are attending this debate today. Tell them that expiry is not a bad thing and that the rights at risk, which are in check, do not result from the operation of expiry which you have supported. [[Congratulations on the PCP and Mr José Moura Soeiro.]] Mr Adam Silva says that expiry has been successful. Only out of contempt for workers, out of contempt for workers' rights, can it be said that expiry has had results. It is true that there have been results, Mr Adam Silva, but it is in favour of the patronage! It is for those who pay less wages, those who steal holidays, those who steal rest days, those who steal compensation and allowances that are provided for in the contracts to be paid to the workers. The CDS says there is no need to revoke anything else, just collective bargaining; there is no need to revoke anything else in labour law. Mr Anacoreta Correia, it has certainly not been realised that the CFP has presented bills on the bank of hours and adaptability, on combating precariousness, on temporary work, on outsourcing, on all these aspects in which it concentrates an essential aspect of a dramatic problem of national life, which is the problem of exploitation of workers and unjust distribution of wealth. Mr Anacoreta Correia, as we have brought to the discussion today on the subject of collective bargaining, we will also have to bring up the other issues so that the CDS once again takes the position in favour of the patronage, in favour of the interests which it has always taken over, against the interests of the workers. Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, we have heard again the argument that this is a matter of social consultation. It's not! This matter of collective bargaining is a matter of labour law. It is not the social consultation that amends the Labour Code, it is not the social consultation that changes the rules that determine a sword over the head of the collective contracts that are in force today. Without a change to labour law, the discussion in social consultation will continue to be held under conditions that allow the patronate to hold the knife and cheese to decide the lives of workers and to decide the living and working conditions of millions of workers in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u197	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u198	In conclusion, Mr President, I would just like to say that to repeal the expiry of collective bargaining and to restore the principle of the most favourable treatment to the worker is to put back brakes, it is to restore essential elements of workers' protection in labour law in a relationship that is unbalanced.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u199	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u200	The employment relationship between workers and employers is not a relationship between equal parties and our 1976 Constitution made an option for workers, providing for the constitutional consecration of collective bargaining. What the CFP is doing today is not only fulfilling this plan of the constituent Members, who have approved the 1976 Constitution, but a modern and future response to Portuguese workers, who do not have to be condemned for exploitation and injustice and who, through collective bargaining, can defend their rights and improve their living conditions through their trade unions. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-04.u201	Thus, the debate, in general, of the projects of lein.o 169, 163 and 234 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), as was notified at the beginning of the debate. Let's move on to the regiment votes. I ask the Services to activate the electronic system for quorum verification. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic picture records 191 presences, to which are added those of the members of BE Joana Mortágua, PCP Miguel Tiago, PAN André Silva, PS Joaquim Raposo, André Pinotes Batista and Sergio Sousa Pinto, PSD Margarida Mano, Amadeu Soares Alberaria and Carlos Abreu Amorim and CDS-PP Pedro Mota Soares, which makes a total of 201 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the voting process. We will move on to the general vote on Bill No 169 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Reinforces the most favourable treatment principle and regulates the succession of collective labour conventions by amending the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 163 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Reinforces the most favourable treatment principle ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] We shall generally vote for Bill No 234 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — by increasing the collective bargaining ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]] We have reached the end of the plenary session. The next session will take place tomorrow, at 10 a.m., with the assessment by the PSD marking of Bill No 511 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amended third Decree-Law No 75 / 2008 of 22 April ( Approves the system of autonomy, administration and management of public establishments in pre-school education and basic and secondary education ), as amended by Decree-Law No 224 / 2009 of 11 September and 137 / 2012 of 2 July ( PSD ). Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, until tomorrow and a rest of a good afternoon to all. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 9 minutes.]]
