ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is open. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. Mrs. Members, the first item on today's agenda is the request to the Government under Article 227. the Regulation of the Assembly of the Republic, of the PSD initiative, on health policy. There will be an initial stage of opening, with an intervention by the Interpelent Party and an intervention by the Government, another debate and finally closure. So let us start the opening phase, so I begin by giving the floor to Mr Miguel Santos. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members: What to do? — that is my question. Mrs. Members of the Socialist Party, Members of the Communist Party, Members of the Left Block, Minister, Mr. State Secretaries, what to do? The results of your governance are bad and fear the future. So what to do? There are two ways: to persist in errors, to continue this policy of hiding problems, without planning, without strategic orientation or, then, to change policies, to change lives, to seek other results, which are not those that have to present. Question: are we going back to the hole of the billions of euros six years ago? Annual deficits in the SNS ( National Health Service of 600 and 800 million euros, as happened and were the trademark of the governments of José Socrates,... [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u3	... or cuts in the supply of drugs? The breakdown of the National Health Service is happening in financial results in assistance results; there are imbalances in all aspects and this government cannot make structured and structural decisions, it only takes context decisions and that aim to prolong the life of the decision makers themselves.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u4	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u5	The strike of the professionals became positive, in terms of communication, the increase in user complaints is reduced to an epiphenomenon, the strangulation of the activity of the hospitals are mere episodes, the resignations are not spoken, waiting for time to pass. The application for the European Medicines Agency ( EMA) is submitted to the city of Lisbon. Is the Minister of Health able to verbalize, with a real touch, the reasons for such a decision and the arguments for the preservation of other Portuguese cities? The question is this: did the government, this minister, for a time even consider the possibility of applying for another Portuguese city, which was not the city of Lisbon? Will the fact that, in a year and a half, the Infarmed (National Medicines and Health Products Authority) already be with its third president constitute a good visa card for a candidature of this caliber? [[It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u6	In the area of HIV/AIDS medicines, the government has been delaying the entry of more effective, less toxic and cheaper innovative therapies for more than one year. Portugal is currently the only Western European country that has no access to this innovation and, even in Eastern Europe, there are few countries where these medicines are not available. The Ministry insists on keeping patients with more toxic and expensive treatments. Does anyone know how the Minister of Health feels about this issue? Or are you waiting, hidden, for news to come in the newspapers by then, there, reacting and presenting any solution, announced, not effective? Since the current government entered into office, the use of employment contracts has increased, contrary to a consolidated trend from 2012 to 2015. In 2016, they exceeded EUR 100 million and in the first quarter of this year already goes to 26 million, which is much more than in the first quarter of the previous year. In view of this spillage, what does the Minister of Health do? Decree! The Minister of Health has decreed! He has decreed that there must be a cut of 35 %. This degree of budgetary implementation — which corrects that of March — threatens, including hospital managers with civil, financial and disciplinary responsibility. For what? To exempt the Minister of Health from his management responsibility. The result of this blind cut is the cancellation of surgeries, instability, leaders who have already resigned, the most deprived hospitals to come into line with risk and the emergencies to be in danger. A set of effects that this Minister can at no time explain how he has warned against happening; he can only promise that it will not happen. The Minister decided to impose this measure when last year in the Health Committee he said he would never impose this measure, much less in the period in which it was done. This sentence has already been read in this plenary by the parliamentary leader of the PSD. But if there were any doubts on the day following this sentence, here in plenary, the Minister again sentenced: "It will not be worth it in this summer period, we will be taking legislative initiatives which would call into question the provision of service. » Exactly what she does a year later. What changed for the Minister to approve this 35 % cut a year later? What has changed is very simple: the Minister is afflicted! The Minister is afflicted! [[PSD applause.]] And will the Minister know that 90 % of INEM's medical benefits (National Institute of Medical Emergency ) are services? How are you gonna take care of that service? Will the Minister know that the dentists you are continuously announcing will join the SNS se-CL will do so for the provision of services? At least this is what is stated in the newspapers, which have temporary work companies announcing the hiring of dentists to the National Health Service through the provision of services.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u7	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u8	Will the Minister know that CODU professionals (emergency patient guidance centres) in Lisbon, Porto and Coimbra are currently being hired through temporary work enterprises? What advance decree 35 % cut, when the practice is exactly the opposite? Is there any idea of the impact this measure will have on the Algarve Hospital Center? Is there any notion of the risk that thousands of users do not have access to primary health care and emergencies not able to respond to this Centre? Can anyone imagine that today, on June 14, the Algarve Hospital Center still does not have the saying « Plano do Calor 2017 », the preparation of the summer season of 2017? This Plan, on June 14, is not even approved, the more implemented. Public investment in the SNS fell to half, payments in hospitals doubled, debts to suppliers increased, and the Minister, in the Health Commission last week, ended up justifying these debts in an extraordinary way: the credit notes of the pharmaceutical industry are not yet registered. It was Mr. Minister who said it eight days ago. It's extraordinary! It is because, in January 2016, he was unable to recognize that he did exactly the same thing: he delayed the registration of credit notes rather than registering in December 2015, in order to be able to charge a major deficit in a single month to the previous government. Mr. Minister, very ugly, even very ugly! It's not good for him. Now he's starting to pay that bill. Another strangeness that is seen in the SNS is the increase in the use of consignment products in hospitals, allowing them to be used many months before the issuance of their respective order notes. This generalisation, of dubious legality, distorts debts and leads to long-term medium-term payments. Adding to the decline in the financial situation of the SNS, the failures in the services, the lack of personnel, the lack of material, the lack of medicines, as the PSD had recently been able to verify in the visit to the Hospital Center of the Algarve. The Minister proposes the hiring of thousands of professionals to SNS. Question : Where are you? Where are these professionals? Does this declaration of will consider professionals who have gone out or even those whom Mr. Minister claims they have entered? Is it like the nurses at the time of the flu, who were hired and then fired? Does the Minister plan to double, triple? I think it would be very useful to know the social balance of the Ministry of Health, that one day it will have to be made public. Still 2015 is not, but on the day it becomes public, perhaps some doubts will disappear. Another multiplicity of problems relates to the medical emergency. The Government has approved a plan to reduce schedules by a significant number of medical emergency ambulances. The saying 'plan' exists, we know it exists. The Minister confirmed last week in the Commission that it exists. The Minister went to the Commission to discuss the plan and was not accompanied by it. He promised eight days ago that he would send it to parliamentary groups, but here we are, eight days ago, and we have not yet received it. I don't know if the benches on the left received it. In fact, he recalls a stuttering scene, in this plenary, a debate, held in January, in which Mr. Minister...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u9	You've reached the time you had, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u10	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying in this debate, Mr Minister showed a map of construction of new hospitals, of which we required distribution, and until the end of the plenary, Mr Minister went out and did not deliver the map, which arrived a month ago, but which was no longer the map that had been originally shown in this House, was already another map. So, I ask: where is this plan to reduce the number of medical emergency ambulances? In the meantime, the Minister has decreed that there is no reduction, but if we go to the places — Espinho, Gaia, Lisbon, Amadora — we see that the ambulances are not actually leaving. So, this Mr. Minister's feeling tight, being afflicted and decreeing an imposition is not enough. In fact, much more needs to be done. Finally, Mr President, I would like to say the following:...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u11	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u12	...there is a competition, launched by this government, from hiring to private... [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Mr. Member of the Communist Party, you are commenting on my speech. So, listen to me now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u13	I hear and comment as I like. I can intervene too!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u14	Yes, sir, of course. And I'll hear it too!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u15	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u16	There is a hiring contest for private helicopters, mechanics, pilots, nurses and doctors. All put in the same package: EUR 45 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u17	Put them wherever you want, but let me be quiet!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u18	In fact, this coincides very well with a draft resolution approved by the Bloc in Parliament, which had an extraordinary title - and I am concluding, Mr President...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u19	Mr President, I am asking you for the third time to do the right thing to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u20	And I will conclude, Mr. President. The title was as follows: save money...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u21	He needs an otorrin!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u22	Sir, I hear very well! I'm talking and listening to what you're saying...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u23	Mr President, it is not time for us to enter into dialogue with Parliamentary banks, it is time to conclude its intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u24	...and it's quite unpleasant what Mr. Member has been saying in voice while I'm speaking. But I can handle that. The title of the draft resolution was as follows, and I shall conclude, Mr President : to save money to private investors to invest in the SNS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u25	And it's a great project! All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u26	It must be such an ambulance contest. It's not, sirs. Members of the Left Block? What a strange way of life you have! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u27	Thanking the ladies now. Members of the Government, I give the floor to Mr. Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u28	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This appeal to the Government on health policy arises near the middle of the legislature, at a time when more than two thirds of the measures of the Government's Health Programme are being implemented, or under implementation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u29	Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u30	It is therefore important to take advantage of this opportunity of accountability, of course, before the Assembly of the Republic, to speak of the reality that the Portuguese know well. A reality centered on the concrete issues of their lives, in which the National Health Service represents a central element of trust. In just over a year and a half, it was possible to reconcile budgetary rigour with social justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u31	Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u32	We have become the National Health Service more accessible and more equitable. The significant reduction in the burden of moderate rates and the transportation of patients contributed to 2016 as the year in which more Portuguese resorted to the National Health Service. We interrupt the exit path of SNS professionals, either by the significant decrease in emigration, or by the reduction of exits to the private sector. in this matter, as in others, there is, fortunately, no room for alternative events. Today, the National Health Service has the largest number of professionals in the different groups. Since the beginning of this legislation, some 4000 new professionals have been admitted and, Mr. Members, this has never happened since there is a National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] It increased the number of doctors placed in the regions of the country, and for the first time specific incentives were created to fix them in the most deprived regions. We also have the largest number of retired doctors, about 400 doctors, who wanted to return to the SNS this time, after having been pushed out of it. In the coming months, 1300 new specialists will be placed, of which 400 will be family doctors. Finally, at the end of a painful multi-year drag, the contest was unblocked for admission of 774 new nurses. There have never been so few Portuguese without a family doctor, nor have responses to primary health care been so differentiated. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In many health centres there are already oral and visual health care available and the number of dentists will be strengthened as of next September. All over the country, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this had never happened since SNS existed in Portugal: they are in design or working more than 70 — repeat, 70 — new health centres, the largest number of the last 30 years, at the same time that the largest number of family health units have been created. In the area of continuous and integrated health care, we increased the number of vacancies and beds in all types and, for the first time, the SNS created places for the mental health network. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in this appeal to the Government, it is more important to counter to the rhetoric of the episodes and the facts the reality of the facts,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u34	... a reality translated in the recognition of Portuguese law access to quality innovative medicines. This was the example of the approval in 2016 of the largest number of innovative medicines there is memory in Portugal. And, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Infarmed did not have three presidents: he had one, who resigned because he had taken up other duties, went to the Secretary of State, and had another who was reformed by the natural law of life and therefore had to be replaced. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, as I was saying, this was the example of the approval in 2016 of 51 new drugs of relevant therapeutic value, putting an end to a policy of rationalization generating the greatest inequities—it is also why Portuguese pay less today in the pharmacy for their medicines—at the same time that the largest proportion of generic medicines was reached in the outpatient clinic and biosimilars in hospitals. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as we will surely have occasion to clarify in this debate, in 2016 we have recorded the best balance of the SNS in recent years, we have made the system more sustainable and the budget implementation of 2017, like the previous year, will continue to be the same: demanding, balanced and weighted, with the essential objectives of the SNS. The overall results until May prove the best care performance ever. Free access and movement within the SNS resulted in about 11 % of users being referred to for first consultation outside the usual hospital network and we continued the strategy of internalization of care, estimating that this year is reduced by about 7 % the issue of surgical vouchers abroad. And pay attention, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this is important: these results are obtained not in a contraction framework, not in a wage reduction framework, not in an admission freeze framework, but instead in an expansion framework of activity, increased supply and very significant strengthening of human resources. It should also be noted that at a time when the remuneration rests are fully realized and the process of revalorizing the extraordinary work of SNS professionals is finally initiated, the Government has taken into account the strategy of internalizing the activity of the SNS and the value of its resources, strengthening cooperation between the different institutions with a view to increasing global productivity and profitability of installed capacity. It is in this sense that measures have been taken to enhance internal labour, to the detriment of external recruitment, so deeply regretted now. In fact, the unions have been saying for several years, and well, that it is necessary, once and for all, to deal with the resource that has been developed over the last four years of contract by avenue, by work to the piece, in which some undifferentiated doctors are paid at 90 €, while doctors who are integrated into the picture receive little more than 24 € per extraordinary hour.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u35	Now! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u36	We want to minimize this dependence and that is why we are strengthening and re-valuing domestic resources and combating the dependence of external work. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last year and a half, we have been promoting modernization and efficiency in resource management; the dematerialization, almost total, of medical prescription was a success; we are now continuing with the dematerialization of complementary means of diagnosis. On the other hand, for the first time, maximum response times guaranteed for the exams and already next week will be finally published the door that becomes included in the additional production criteria, in addition to the surgeries, the consultations and the examinations, allowing doctors, outside their working hours, to do more activity within the SNS facilities. We will therefore take a decisive step in the process of internalizing and improving lists and waiting times. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we continue the design of a new ambition for public health; we have broadened the scope of the National Vaccination Programme, transforming it into one of the most advanced and complete countries of the European Union; we have presented a new model of governance of the PNV (National Vaccination Programme), ensuring a more effective link between health, education and families; until the end of the year, the Bulletin of Electronic Vaccination will be a reality; the new Tobacco Law was approved by the Assembly of the Republic and will enter into force in 2018; it was finally created and approved, by proposal, the National Oncological Register; we stress the success of the special taxation measures of sugar drinks. In the last year, we have seen significant improvements in indicators of HIV infection and tuberculosis. in this sense, within the framework of the National Programme for HIV/AIDS infection, was implemented by the municipalities of Cascais, Lisbon and Porto the Joint Declaration of the National Initiative Cities on the Rapid Way to Eliminate HIV. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in just over a year and a half, the Portuguese recognize well the differences in current policies against past policies and begin to feel their results. Until the end of the Legislature, we will continue the path of investment in infrastructure, health equipment but above all in human capital, we stress the importance of new construction projects for the hospitals of Évora, Seixal, Sintra and Lisboa Oriental, as well as the recent approval and signature of an energy efficiency programme for SNS institutions, whose overall amount may reach around EUR 100 million ; we look at decentralization as an opportunity to improve the efficiency and proximity of the system; we reaffirm the commitment to recover and develop the SNS, strengthening the equity in access and the quality of services provided. We are certain and are motivated to demonstrate, at the end of this legislature, that Portuguese have reasons not only to believe in the quality of their public services, but also to believe in a National Quality Health Service. The Government will continue its work as it is, with determination, so that the SNS can be closer, more efficient and more able to respond to the needs of citizens, particularly those who need it most. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u37	Thank you very much, Minister. Moreover, by the exemplary management that made the time it had to intervene. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the debate stage. The Bureau recorded the registration of eight Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. The indication we have is that the government will respond in blocks of four. Mr Moisés Ferreira, from the Left Block, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Minister of Health, the discussion that the Left Block is interested in is about measures to strengthen the National Health Service. It is in this discussion that we have been engaged since the beginning of this legislature and that is what we want to bring here today. In fact, that is why the Left Block has presented numerous measures, numerous legislative initiatives, one of them, for example, and which has already been approved, on the institution of a multi-year commitment and a strengthening of funding of the National Health Service, of which we intend to see translation already in 2018. We know that these are the steps ahead that people expect from us, in the same way that we know that any measure that weakens the National Health Service are steps behind that we cannot let them be given. I would therefore like to ask the Minister questions on two specific subjects. The first is about the National Vaccination Program. Today it was known that the government was weighing, or at least weighing, transferring the administration of vaccines integrated into the National Private Vaccination Programme, in particular pharmacies. For the Left Block is an option that is not justified and that weakens the National Health Service. The National Vaccination Program is one of the best in the world. It is because it is included in the National Health Service that has achieved a coverage of more than 90%; it is because it is within the National Health Service that it achieves proximity to the users; it is because it is within the National Health Service that can be effective. We don't know that there are difficulties. The target is a 100% vaccine coverage. In particular, it is necessary to overcome difficulties in stock management, stock failure, which still happen many times. None of this will be improved or surpassed if it is delivered to the pharmacy or other private partners. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u39	Therefore, removing or delegating absolutely central competences regarding public health policies in Portugal is to weaken the National Health Service, it is a tremendous mistake from the point of view of the Left Block. The question you would leave to Mr Minister is whether the government — it still goes on time, because it will consider not to make this mistake and revert to any conversation or any idea that has existed to delegate competences to pharmaceuticals and privates in relation to the National Vaccination Programme.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u40	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u41	Another question I would like to raise relates to the Decree-Law which obliges the reduction of 35% of quarterly charges with the acquisition of professional health services. The use of companies that employ employers, especially in hospitals, should be combated and avoided. We agree. Being spending 100 million euros a year to place non-specialized professionals is a mistake and weakens the National Health Service. We agree. It is worth noting whether this measure, which is registered in decree-law, of a reduction of 35% of the quarterly charges with the acquisition of services to companies, is merely an administrative measure aimed at reducing costs or if it is something more profound, which is something that has to do with a broader strategy for the National Health Service. This is because if we have to deal with a broader and coherent strategy for the National Health Service, then we believe that it should be accompanied by other measures, measures, these measures, which we propose and we ask the Government if it is available to carry out, in particular the hiring of more health professionals — doctors, nurses and other professionals — and access to specialized training by all newly licensed doctors, because this year there is a risk that 700 doctors will not have access to the specialty. No one understands that in a country like Portugal so many doctors are wasted. [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u42	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u43	I shall close immediately, Mr President, by asking what measures will be applied and what will be done to speed up the autonomy of recruitment, in cases of temporary absence, in hospitals and health centres. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u44	To request clarifications, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Minister of Health, the great problem that is living in health today is extremely short of means, a reflection of a very serious lack of money. Mr President, at the same time as he set up the 35 hours a week's work, he did not make prompt payments for compensation and, in a budget where 50 % is for human resources, it is natural that there will be consequences. One of the consequences is of course this Decree-Law No 55 / 2017, already brought here by several parliamentary groups, which imposes a global cut of 35 % on the existence of jobs without precaution of the operation of services, as happened with the change of working hours for 35 hours per week. The Minister says they will be recruited medically in the coming months, but the Decree-Law is now in force. What do we know about that? We have the statements by Mr. Bastonário of the Order of Physicians who, still today, said that it is a national shame, in an impoverished SNS, this proposal from the Ministry of Finance and accepted by the Ministry of Health. And it was questioned how, without any concern about patients and people who work daily in difficult conditions, it is possible to keep the SNS above the « water line ». But we also have statements in the same direction from the Regional Section of the Medical Order Centre, which used expressions as « irresponsible », « inhumanity », « extremely serious consequences ». Moreover, one of these consequences, which is quite serious and already signalled by the CDS, is the resignation of the clinical direction and of 18 of the 20 service directors of the Amadora-Sintra hospital, a hospital that, moreover, had already reported the lack of 100 doctors even before the 35 % cut. But there are more, Mr Minister, there are more, in this framework that did not endorse anything good for the National Health Service. There is the case of nurses who threaten to boycott births as of July 3, if their individual contracts, as well as their salaries, are not reviewed. The Minister said that this threat of nurses was made to burn clothes and to stop the birth blocks — and I quote: "...the professional, individual and corporate responsibility must be assumed by those who will have to take it", i.e. by nurses. I ask the Minister whether this is the only answer he has to give to the nurses, but above all to the users of the delivery rooms, from July 3rd. And there are still more situations, Minister. Regarding waiting times for consultations and surgeries, we cannot rest either. Consider some examples: in the Hospital de São Teotónio, in Viseu, the consultation of dermatovenereology has a waiting time of 492 days for a maximum of 150 and the consultation of very priority ophthalmology has a waiting time of 102 days for a maximum of 30 ; in the Pediatric Hospital of Coimbra, the consultation of reconstructive plastic surgery has a waiting time of 133 days for a maximum of 60 and the consultation of very priority gynecology has a waiting time of 116 days for a maximum of 30 ; in the Hospital de Portimão, the consultation of anesthesiology has a waiting time of 290 days for a maximum of 150 and the gastro has a waiting time of 695 days for a maximum of 150. I imagine that Mr. Minister would not like to need a gastroenterology consultation if he lived in the Algarve under these conditions! Is that what you're talking about? So, Minister, what I am asking is this: faced with this scenario of the Service, which does not seem to me auspicious nor health, what do you intend to do? What the Minister says is that he is quite pleased because at the end of the first full year of this 35 % court will have a savings of EUR 35 million and that will take advantage of the shared management of human resources of the various units of the Service. And I ask: shared management of what, if the question is precisely that there are no human resources available in the Service?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u46	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u47	So, apart from the austerity we see repeatedly in all these examples, what else does the Minister have to show?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u48	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u49	I shall finish immediately, Mr President. Can the Minister here today guarantee the accessibility and quality of the National Health Service? I end with a question also addressed to the Left Block, the CFP and the Greens : that is why you have made this government solution possible? Was it for this National Health Service that you made it possible? It's just that if we were to have austerity, frankly, we're talking. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u50	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Carla Cruz of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members of the rostrum today, the PSD has tried to make a scene — which we have already been used to — to whiteen their responsibilities for the current situation of the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u52	One more scene!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u53	Mr. Miguel Santos said that the National Health Service is delaying the entry of innovative medicines, but he forgot to mention that the previous government protected the entry of medicines,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u54	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u55	... in particular medicines for hepatitis C that could have saved lives, and that some patients ended up dying due to lack of access to these medicines.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u56	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u57	The honourable Member said that there were no professionals in the National Health Service, which is true, but he forgot to say that it was in the time of the PSD Government / CDS-PP that more professionals left the National Health Service : in 2012 there were 129,500 health professionals and in 2014 there were 121,083.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u58	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u59	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u60	The government is not on this bench!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u61	Mr. Minister of Health, this does not mean that there are no problems in the National Health Service. There are problems, and many, in the National Health Service, but, in fact, these problems are not today, they are not at present, they are the responsibility of successive governments, particularly the PSD and the CDS-PP. With regard to health professionals, it is important to note that the lack of fat professionals throughout the National Health Service, and in this regard we cannot fail to mention the resignations of the clinical direction and of the other directors of services of the Amadora-Sintra hospital, due to the difficulties they felt in hiring health professionals, especially doctors. Mr Minister, it is important to make clear the response that the Government will give towards strengthening the public response, hiring health professionals, valuing these professionals and strengthening the National Health Service. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u62	For the last request for clarification of this first block, Mr Simão Ribeiro, of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, speaking in this Chamber, in reforming the National Health Service, in evaluating the provision of quality health care to Portuguese, in discussing the sustainability of the National Health Service also, in our view, the obligation to discuss what should be the integrated planning of medical training in Portugal. Mr. Minister of Health, I recall that, despite all the difficulties we felt, the vacancies for specialized medical training were increasing year after year in the previous legislation. It happens that, according to the data we have, there are today about 270 young trained doctors, 270 young people who did not have access to specialized medical training, which alone would be a serious factor. But even more serious, Minister, is that, in view of what was the reality of 2015 and 2016, we see the following : nothing more than three times the number of doctors without access to specialized training in 2015. We therefore speak of 1719 vacancies identified for 2466 young newly trained doctors candidates for vacancies and special training; we speak, as mentioned here, of more than 700 young doctors who will most likely be denied access to specialized training this year. Now, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if we join these 700 young doctors to the 270 that I have just mentioned, we are before 1000 young undifferentiated doctors. It is 1,000 young doctors who are in a precarious situation — which, in fact, would not be surprising, not to be the 'filled mouth', constantly and daily, with the fight against precariousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u64	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u65	There are 1,000 young doctors who will not have access to medical careers and, Minister, I no longer mean those who may be medium and long-term costs to the National Health Service. But, Mr Minister, one of the great flagship measures of your Government was the design, the intention that Mr. Prime Minister expressed from the beginning of the legislature to bring back so many young people who, according to you, were forced to emigrate. Mr Minister of Health, tell me one thing: is it in this context and with measures of this kind that helps the Prime Minister to get the young Portuguese to return to Portugal? What is more, these young doctors now have only two alternatives: either precariousness or emigration. These are the alternatives given by the Minister of Health to around 1,000 young Portuguese people in this situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u66	I wouldn't talk about emigration if I were you!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u67	I have three more questions to ask you, Minister. First of all, let me clarify the following: how has this year resulted in the process of defining the number of vacancies, both those of the responsibility of the National Health Service and those defined by the Medical Order? Secondly, what measures is the Minister taking to resolve this problem in the short term, either this year or next year? Thirdly, from a structural point of view, what strategic measures will the Minister take to ensure that this problem does not happen again in the future? Tell me, Minister : will you choose to close or restrict vacancies in access to the medical course or will the number of vacancies in access to specialized medical training be increased consecutively? I shall finish, Mr President, with only one request to the Members. Members of the far-left parliament. It is true — and I recognise - that many of you are. Members of the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party who have raised the issue of medical training. Well, the problem is that it's not just a matter of raising the issue. In the discussions and in the votes in which they are called to participate, they make a lot of political noise, but in fact they are next to the government, they defend and vote in favour of this miserable situation to which young Portuguese people are voted. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from PCP MP Carla Cruz.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u68	In response to these four requests for clarification, the Minister for Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u69	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I would begin by replying to Mr Moisés Ferreira, saying what has already been said this morning by the Directorate-General of Health, i.e., we do not know the origin of this disparate news, which has no real background. The Government would never intend that the vaccines applied under the National Vaccination Programme ( PNV ), which require technical specificity and professional preparation and which have always worked on the public network, would go to the competence of the pharmacy. This probably results in some confusion with Community pharmacies, from a few years ago to this part, administering influenza vaccines, those that are not mandatory vaccines. So what I want to reiterate is that this information makes no sense and it is not worth discussing a non-news, because we have no intention of doing anything about it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, in fact we have good news with the new bill that is being prepared for a more effective governance model of the Programme. As you know, we greatly increase the number of PNV vaccines, we want to involve much more the educational community, citizens and families, we will have an integrated application that allows health professionals and schools to detect early children at risk so that the public health and health authority can intervene and, of course, we will do centralized shopping, as we already do today, for medicines and medical devices. So there's no novelty about that, too. I was now addressed to Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS. Mrs Deputy, many of the issues you raised refer to an idea of a country and a context that is probably not the same as we are living in. In other words, as a result of other Members' speeches. Members, it would be good for external entities to assess with greater force and with greater intensity the policies of this year and medium compared to the policies of the last four years. We ask the WHO ( World Health Organization ), which is doing an external evaluation for four years, and also the European Observatory on Health Policies and Systems, and we very much wish that universities and independent entities will examine us, because otherwise we are here in a sort of ball in which everyone says what comes to his head without even proving whether what is being said corresponds or not to reality. Let's start with the principle. Mrs Ana Rita Bessa said that 35 hours was not kept in custody. I know that the Member and her Parliamentary Group abhor 35 hours ago, it is something that causes them enormous discomfort and will never deal well with this replacement of the PNT (normal working time) for many years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] But, Mrs. Member, the SNS social balance sheet is online, it's available on the portal, it's even discriminated against per month...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u70	Debts, too? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u71	Also, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u72	Every month, they grow!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u73	Looking at the number of nurses, we found that today we have an absolute number already greater than we had in 2010, with the time of 35 hours. Asking-CL will--if it comes to me. It is not enough, Mrs Deputies, but we are moving forward in accordance with the possibilities and speed at which the country can go and, therefore, we will do everything with budgetary security and the sense of responsibility that we are required. There is one question I would also like to raise about the 35 % court order. The honourable Member is certainly reminded of the October office of last year, which also motivated my presence in this House of the Republic, because, they said, it would be the scrapping, hospitals would not buy medicines, would not buy devices... It is true to say that « the mountain bet a mouse». With regard to this situation, Mrs Deputies, what I can assure you is that the Government, in particular the Ministry of Health, will caution the transitional period so that in the summer, in the most deprived units, all necessary contracts and services will have a response. Mrs Deputies, I would also like to say that the position of Mr Bastonário of the Order of Doctors, which I have read this morning, is markedly contrasted with the position of the unions who, on the contrary, follow this measure, which is a strategic orientation measure so that, once and for all, the State and SNS will focus on their own resources, in their tables and stop doing what has been done in the last four years, which was an exercise of pure marketing of medical work in which doctors in a particular hospital do not spend extraordinary hours later going to the hospital next to do for a value three or four times higher. Madam Member, there is assurance that we will be careful and that everything will be done to ensure that there is no resource-related problem. Finally, the honourable Member spoke about waiting times for three or four hospitals, and was also an interesting exercise to compare the waiting times of these hospitals with those of three years ago. Madam Member, we are not satisfied, but we have published, 15 days ago, the door that defines for the first time guaranteed guarantees and maximum response times for the citizens waiting, not only for surgery, as it already did, but from now on for consultations and examinations, which means that users will have to have answers. Therefore, Mrs. Deputy will be published next Monday, which will allow doctors to perform professional activities within hospitals in consultations and MDDT (additional means of diagnosis and therapy). [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u74	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will enter the second round of requests for clarification. Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u75	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister, we began to welcome the denial of the news that reported the government's claim to transfer to the pharmacy the administration of the vaccines of the National Vaccination Plan. We were not able to see any advantages, from the point of view of the public interest, in this apparent claim. It was, moreover, another element that would contribute to weakening the National Health Service when what it imposes is to strengthen it, especially after the passage of the PSD and CDS by the government. Mr Minister, during the last debate that took place in the plenary with the Minister, the Greens asked some questions about public health reform but some of the answers given were not, in our view, very enlightening, leaving us still some doubts and therefore I will put them back in the hope that the Minister today can give us more objective answers. We have already said this, and we reaffirm, that we welcome the Government's intention to consolidate in a single legal degree the most relevant legislation on public health policy, which, in fact, is dispersed by a wide range of legal diplomas, and I believe that we will have a lot to gain from this legislative consolidation, but that is not enough. Only consolidation is little, it needs more. This reform must be able to provide the means and instruments necessary for its desirable functioning and, in some ways, it can also enrich the broad participation of the professionals involved. If the path is not that little or nothing will gain in what is essential. What is essential is to strengthen the capacity of health services to better respond to the needs of users. in this regard, Mr Minister, our concerns are particularly concerned with two central aspects. On the one hand, the fact that the public health proposal does not contain some elements that will have been agreed between the Government and the Public Health Reform Commission, from the outset on the matter of pay supplement, since the Government proposal only provides for the remuneration supplement for doctors with health authority functions, leaving other professionals outside, such as environmental health technicians or public health nurses. On the other hand, there is the issue of relationships. Mr. Minister, Decree-Law No. 81 / 2009, which is still in force, but which the proposal intends to repeal, sets out some ratios: a doctor with a degree of public health specialist for every 25,000 inhabitants, a nurse for every 30,000 inhabitants and an environmental health technician for every 15 000 inhabitants. It happens that neither these nor any other ratios are provided for in the proposal, which will further exacerbate the shortage of professionals in this area and, of course, there will be no need to make much effort to realize that the proposal, if it does not provide for links, will make it difficult to admit these professionals and will exacerbate inequalities in the distribution of resources with serious damage to the most deprived areas of the interior. Therefore, Minister, we would like you to clarify these two matters. Finally, with regard to the question of the use of temporary health workers at a time when the government is involved in a fight against job insecurity, which we believe should be firm and serious and, knowing that the use of temporary health workers has been a very widely used file by the previous government, the PSD/CDS government, we believe that this government should be seriously committed to putting an end to this mechanism which, in addition to other negative aspects, promotes working precariousness in its maximum exponent. It seems to us that it would be important for the Minister to make a point of view of this intention, which is also a government commitment, i.e. to counter the tendency of unfair recourse to temporary work enterprises, a file, as it is known, very cultivated by the PSD/CDS government. Don't stop being, at least curious,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u76	It's exactly the opposite!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u77	Mr. Miguel Santos, now you're going to have to listen, take care! As I said, it is at least curious that Mr Miguel Santos, in his intervention in the gallery, had expressed such concern about the use of temporary work when the previous government used and abused this mechanism. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u78	To make requests for clarification, Mr Cecilia Meireles of the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u79	Mr President, Minister, the question you would like to leave is about the decision taken by the Government to apply for a European agency, the EMA, and to consider that the only possible possibility in Portugal is Lisbon to the detriment of all other Portuguese cities. Mr Minister, it is a provincial decision, it is a barristist decision, it is an absurd decision and it is a decision that Mr Minister has to review today and now. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u80	Mr Minister, it makes no sense that a government, the case of yours, shows an absolute ignorance of the country that governs, for example, saying, as Mr. President of Infarmed said, that what justified the choice of Lisbon was the fact that a huge hotel infrastructure was needed, an airport with foreign language capacity, schools and kindergartens. You will imagine, of course, that this will turn the city of Lisbon into the only possible possibility. The problem is, apparently, only the city of Lisbon would have international schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u81	I could go to Évora!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u82	Now there's an airport there.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u83	It seems that, having studied the matter for a week, the Prime Minister will have realized that this argument had no meaning whatsoever and, then, the justification yesterday, was not the international schools that exist only in Lisbon but precisely a European school that does not exist either in Lisbon, i.e. Lisbon is the only possible choice because it is the only city that can have a school that does not yet have. I hope you understand that, in order to justify the unjustifiable, they are already in the field of absurdity.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u84	I could also stay in Setúbal...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u85	In Almada we find a great place.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u86	And they are also in the field of the type of arguments that simply justify that everything concentrates in one place — and this is argument No 2 —: Infarmed is here and, of course, can only be here, it can only be in Lisbon. Mr Minister, will there ever be a time when something can be in some country city if we put everything absolutely dependent on the pre-existence of centralized public services? Is that possible? It is, Mr Minister, the Government, in speeches and even in legislative processes of declaration of intentions, that speaks a lot of decentralisation, but then...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u87	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u88	... when it comes to truth, when it comes to doing something, it does things like the resolution of the Council of Ministers to decide on the Portuguese candidacy, which, as I tell you, is an hymn to the ignorance of its own country and to the deepest provincialism in dealing with these issues.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u90	Mr. Minister, tell the CDS and it's all in Évora.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u91	The question, Minister, is much deeper than deciding between several cities, between Lisbon, Porto, Braga and Coimbra, goes much further than that, it goes by deciding which type of country you want. Is a country in which the government decides by decree that the only possibility, without looking at criteria or starting from provincial prejudices, is one or, on the contrary, there will be transparent criteria? When he says that what justifies national candidacy is the long Portuguese participation, socio-economic valences, privileged geographical location—I suppose it was referring to the country—and the experience in welcoming European bodies and synergies, does he even think that this is the model of country he wants to develop?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u92	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u93	Surely, Mr. President, I shall finish. Tell me one thing: when you look at Europe you think it's being compared right, or when you're comparing it wrong? So what I ask you is: are we finally going to have a transparent process in this area in which our country makes a candidacy that is of everyone and not just of the prejudices and the barristism of some? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u94	In order to make requests for clarification, Mrs Paula Santos of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u95	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Minister, I cannot fail to begin my intervention without referring to the intervention we have heard here by the PSD, and to your pretense concern about access to specialized medical training. So, you don't know and you don't take on the responsibilities you have for today hundreds and hundreds of young doctors who may be out of access to specialized medical training? Do you remember why a set of senior doctors retired in advance, not allowing this knowledge to be transferred to young doctors?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u96	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u97	Are you reminded of the reason for the closure of various hospital services, preventing the number of vacancies today from being longer than the one?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u98	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u99	They have reduced, extinguished, merged services, and this has had consequences, Mr. But I can also tell you this: the CFP presented a proposal for the State Budget for 2017 which was to guarantee vacancies for all potential candidates. How did the PSD vote? He abstained. Here is the concern of the PSD regarding specialized medical training.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u100	Exactly! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u101	But I can say more: in view of the proposal that the PCP here brought of appreciation of the medical boarding, following the disqualification and devaluation that was played by the PSD and CDS, what did the PSD do? He voted against! Like the CDS and PS, which also voted against. Mr Minister, in fact this is a very worrying matter that we want to bring up the debate and therefore I put two questions that I do, and that will be discussed in depth in the Health Committee. The first question is what is being done in compliance with the State budget and how to respond to these doctors. The second question, Minister, concerns the need to hire the necessary health professionals to the National Health Service, following the decision to reduce the use of external companies by 35%. We believe, moreover, that a plan should be made, a programme for the gradual termination of these contracts, as contained in the State budget. That is what I ask you, Minister, because the measure is to reduce the hiring of companies and increase the direct recruitment by the National Health Service. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u102	To make requests for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs. Angela Guerra, of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u103	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, Mr and Mr. Members, Mr Minister, the last summary of the budget implementation of the SNS, of April 2017, tells us that the amount of late payments of E.P.E. hospitals. has worsened by EUR 167 million. Comparing to the 2016 homologous period this represents a deterioration of 31 % in just 1 year. This, Minister, seems to have no influence on people's lives, has a lot. All this and the fact that you do not pay the accounts also results in the financial asphyxiation of many institutions that provide services and services to the SNS such as firefighter associations, not few of which are in a state of absolute agony. Its government has not only increased the funding to firefighters compared to 2016, as now, with its bad accounts, puts at least 210 humanitarian associations fighting for their survival. Mr. Minister owes EUR 30 million, an increase of 50% in this debt, and owes more than seven months to the firefighters in this country; the guard district with 23 associations, the ULS (local health unit) owes EUR 1 million, the Viseu district with 33 associations, owes EUR 2 million. The apologies are many, Mr Minister, since requests for successive and disproposed clarification on invoices. If it were not the anticipation of money, which, repeatedly, some municipalities do to these humanitarian associations and that every day they save many lives in this country, your services have long been at stake and with your responsibility, Mr Minister. The question I am asking is: Minister, what do you have to say to the firefighters in Portugal on this issue? Another question, Mr Minister, has to do with the transport of patients carried out—see, in large part, by these fire associations to which Mr Minister voted for this financial asphyxiation. Mr. Minister knows that today, by your decision, there are cancer patients leaving home at four in the morning in Silves, going to Mourão, where another patient enters, go to Vila Viçosa, where another patient enters, go to Portalegre, where another patient enters, finally following to Lisbon, where they have to wait for each other's consultations. That is, they return at the end of the day home, where those who went out at 4:00 in the morning return at midnight. Does Mr. Minister know about this? Does the Minister agree with this total lack of access to health care? Mr Minister obliges a patient to make a 1200 km trip—as if he were from Lisbon to Barcelona—when he could be 500 km, go back and forth, i.e. simply from Silves to Lisbon. Mr. Minister knows, for example, that there are patients in the Guard district who leave at five in the morning of Foz Côa, go to Figueira de Castelo Rodrigo, collect people, go to Media, collect more people, pass through Trancoso, collect more patients, then in Celorico collect patients again, finally arrive at the IPO, the Coimbra, and do the treatments, coming home in the night, this after Mr. Minister has increased the twice the distance they have to do? They are people who are physically and psychologically shaken, they are cancerous, fragile patients, who are now subject to the profound inhumanity to which this procedure obliges them, a direct consequence of their capitulations and their gross cuts in funding. This is the most perverse side of your policy, Minister: hospitals which are sunk in debt due to lack of funding, and are now downloading to the patients the financial divide you have voted on. But you travel by car with the closed curtains, don't contact the country, you don't see people. Go to the hospitals, Minister, contact the people. And now, to conclude, I would like to ask: does the Minister think that this type of group transport is humanly acceptable? Mr Minister, would you like to transport these people, being sick how are these people? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u104	You have the floor to answer these four requests for clarification, Mr Health Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u105	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if you will allow me, I will answer all the questions about medical care, put by Mr Simão Ribeiro or Mrs Carla Cruz, saying that it was good for us to start at the end. And the end, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there has never been such a wave to access the boarding school as this year. Again, it is very interesting to analyze the tape of time, because, when we analyze episodes and topical aspects, we are focused on what is not essential. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it would be good if you could see the number of vacancies open year by year. Secondly, who defines the total number of vacancies is not the government. The ACSS ( Central Health System Administration ) works with an entity called the National Medical Board, which, listening to hospitals and, above all, the Technical Council for Qualification, of the Medical Order, assigns the vacancies. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this year, for the first time, the government has opened everything to open. And I'd open more, Mrs. Member. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What I think is extraordinary is to see some crocodile tears, because over the past four years, in which there could have been a bill or a decree of law implementing the number clauses, over four years, in which there could have been a restriction on entry or action could have been taken—and many of these specialists are now reaching the barrier of training because many of these inmates were formed in the time of the VV government. For example, nothing has been done.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u106	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u107	But here is the challenge: if, indeed, the PSD is so concerned about the risk of the country not being able to do more quality training—because this training is done, as I have said, with the opinion and recommendation of the Order, and there are even initiatives to have an external audit, to see whether everything is being done according to the rigor that we recognize that the Medical Order assigns to this type of process—, it has the possibility, it has the power, if you want, of the legislative initiative and to propose the introduction of a closed numerum, because, for a few years now, we will no longer have an excessive number of doctors for the country's training capacity. Finally, and taking what Mrs. Carla Cruz referred to, she wanted to say that it is also worth looking with great attention, year by year, between 2011 and 2017, for the number of retired doctors who returned to the SNS (National Health Service) and for the number of doctors and nurses who asked for permission to emigrate, because this is a debate that is worth spending. It is a debate on concrete facts, not alternative facts and not episodes, as we have been hearing, unfortunately. On the issue of 35 % which Mrs Paula Santos has put, it is clear that, with this measure, the Government intends to define a trend and will find a transitional time that will allow hospitals that may have doctors in the framework to always have and only doctors in the framework. Although we have had, in the last two years, the biggest wave of placement of doctors in the country, it is not yet sufficient, not because the absolute value of doctors is not good, but because, unfortunately, and the result of wrong number clauses, put in a timely manner, at the end of the 1980s,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u108	Do Cavaco!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u109	... there is a generational problem and there is a set of senior doctors who are approaching the reform and the young people who are coming are not yet enough to meet the effective needs. Mr. José Luís Ferreira, the reform of public health, as you know, is in Parliament and the government is open to all the proposals for improvement which Parliament understands, in its political judgment, to introduce and, of course, to pay attention. In fact, it is the subject of negotiation which is currently taking place with the unions on the question of the remuneration supplements of public health doctors, as well as on the condition, in particular, of the ratios of public health doctors. Therefore, whether through the law, which seems less likely to me, either by the form of decree-law, we are open, in negotiation with the unions, to look at this problem, which has its basis and is justified to be referred to. As far as transport is concerned, Mrs Guerra remembers — because she certainly has a very good memory — that it was her government that introduced the co-operations. The honourable Member recalls that there were patients who weren't going to hospitals for treatment because they had no money for transport. See also, year by year, from 2011 to 2017, the number of patients transported and the charge for these same patients and compare the 2017 numbers with those of the time when the honourable Member had responsibilities to support a majority of government. Furthermore, Mrs Deputies, we have signed a protocol with the Portuguese Bombers League, which includes dematerializing the invoicing process, moving to an electronic process, and everything is going on as normal as possible, and we have no news that there are broken situations, because whenever they exist, Mr President of the League informs ACCSS and this solves the problem. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Let me now answer in detail the question of the European Medicines Agency, EMA, which Mrs Cecilia Meireles has raised here. Madam Member, fortunately for Portugal, the possibility of candidacy does not run out in Lisbon or Porto. Furthermore, Coimbra has also just expressed the will to do and there would certainly be other cities with conditions to do so. Therefore, the accusation of provincialism, of centralism, do not take it! What happened, Madam Member, was that, at the time of the application, the services did a technical survey, identifying the conditions that would, in their view, allow for a stronger candidacy, in view of the number of cities that are applying, which are, as you know, around 20 countries. Mrs Cecilia Meireles, you are sure to recall that this resolution of the Council of Ministers on 26 May or 24 May.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u110	No, no. It's April 27th!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u111	April, you're absolutely right. But the honourable Member would probably be in plenary on 10 May, when the House unanimously approved a vote of greeting for the Portuguese candidature to the European Medicines Agency of Portugal and Lisbon. Therefore, it is not about discriminating one city in favour of another and I believe that Porto has as many conditions as Lisbon to present a strong candidacy. Furthermore, Mrs Deputies : as I am, I am a member of the process of decentralization of the country, particularly in the field of health, I can tell you that, from the point of view of the Ministry of Health, we are ready, as soon as the legal framework allows, to move quickly out of Lisbon two or three of the central services. This is something we want to do, so there is legal framework, thus giving the greatest proof that we agree with you that, in a more balanced way, it is necessary to transform the country, in respect for all the potentials that the different cities of the country have. Finally, Mrs. Carla Cruz, about the Amadora-Sintra hospital, I was informed that the clinical management had made the place available and was also informed that they remain in office. What Amadora-Sintra hospital did is natural: it was a call of attention that, of course, is attended by services and will be supported. One thing I assure you, Mrs. Member : we will give the Amadora-Sintra hospital permission for all contracts of doctors and nursing staff that the hospital needs and that they are appropriate. Unfortunately, in some cases, we want to give authorizations and applications do not exist and the availability of these same doctors does not. Therefore, on Amadora-Sintra, we see no harm in this position, which was, in fact, correct, appropriate, if you want, a call of attention, and the ARS (Regional Health Administration) of Lisbon and Vale do Tejo is, with the hospital, seeking to resolve this situation in the most balanced way possible. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u112	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now in the process of intervention. Mr António Sales of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u113	Mr President, Mr Minister, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Health, Mr State Secretary for Health, Mr State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs Members: We all realize that the PSD has lost its political agenda in economic matters. in this enormous shipwreck, which are the current PSD policies, Mr. Miguel Santos throws himself into a vast ocean, even if it is virtual. Everything that stirs serves as a float. hence, it certainly results in a reduced and even restrictive analysis of the current state of health. It restricts it to a screening of claims, late payments, cut of 35 % in jobs, lack of investment. You do an economic-liberal analysis of health policies. We do an economic-social analysis of the same policies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So they do a daily or almost daily scrutiny of conjuncural aspects that at nothing have to do with structural components, even above, with a huge lack of memory. Or do you no longer remember the cameras hidden in emergency services, which showed the degraded situation in which patients were observed? [[It's true. It's true!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u114	Or do you no longer remember the cuts of extraordinary hours by 50 %, which forced the increase of resources in jobs and contracting companies? Or have forgotten the brutal increase in moderate rates, which conditioned access and redirected patients to the private sector,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u115	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u116	... or also the enormous disinvestment that they have made with the cut in human resources, in the different hospital services and health centers? Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely thought that today in this House it would be possible to discuss the real situation of the SNS in its appropriate dimensions — efficiency, efficiency, quality of service provided, adequacy, access, technical and scientific quality, assistance indicators — but I already realized that VV. They are very little interested in raising the debate and have opted for political chicana, which in no way fits the reality or perception that the Portuguese have of their health services.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u117	It's the custom!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u118	In fact, your structural reforms are called « wage cuts, cuts in extraordinary hours, increases in hours of work without compensation, cuts in contracts». Your structural reform is called 'the policy of the whip', without appeal, nor aggravating. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This structural reform is VV. Do you intend to discuss it again and present it to the Portuguese? Ladies and gentlemen. Members, I invite you to look at the latest international report from the European Monitoring Centre for Health Systems and Policies of March 2017, which states that the Portuguese health system is one of the most efficient in Europe, by improving life expectancy, by excellent results of child mortality or potentially lost years of life, or by duly containing the total expenditure measured in the efficiency of the system. These, yes, are the real indicators of a structural reform and are the expression of a set of very important measures that this government has taken: hiring more health professionals; investing in the construction of 70 new health centres; intervention in 48 hospitals; moderate rates of about 24% lower; better reference conditions for SNS through the portal; bet on disease prevention, diabetes, hypertension, obesity; in short, better access, better health care and greater readiness. Mrs. Members, this Government is concerned about the health of the Portuguese people, it carries out its mission together with health professionals, users, hospitals and health centres. It is not expected that users will come to the Assembly of the Republic to beg that they will not be allowed to die, as we all remember. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The paradigm is another, sirs. Members: this Government rules for the Portuguese, with greater ambition, with greater demand and commitment. Mr Minister, the European report to which I have just mentioned also states that the financial sustainability of the SNS lies in the growth of its budget and in improving the efficiency of the functioning of public health units. I ask you if you agree with this analysis and you can reassure the Portuguese for the next fiscal year 2018. But I would also like to challenge the PSD's Member to inform the House of the value of cutting public spending on health between 2011 and 2015 and of what this transfer represented for the private sector, particularly with the care of families. In conclusion, I would like Mr. PSD to inform the House of how many emergencies he intended to close by decree between 2011 and 2015, and how many multi-purpose emergencies he also wanted, by decree, to de-promote for medical-surgical emergencies and basic emergencies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u119	Mr Firmino Pereira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u120	Mr President, Mr António Sales, you must have been paying attention to Mr Minister's intervention at the beginning of this debate. The Minister referred to the construction of new equipment in the field of health, but he did not, perhaps by distance, refer to the requalification of the Vila Nova de Gaia hospital, or to the hospital, as they would call it. Mr. Deputies, this hospital directly serves 350 000 inhabitants. In the former Government, such a government which does not invest, it was possible to initiate the first phase of retraining of this hospital. This first phase was completed last May. It's been over a year and we're waiting for the second phase to start. It is an imperious work for the population of Gaia and Espinho. The second stage is delayed because we have been waiting for a joint office of the Minister of Health and the Minister of Finance to authorize the administration of the hospital to open the competition for this second stage. This second phase, in addition to some important valences, also has a valence that is that of emergency services become better conditions. I ask the honourable Member whether it is not enough time, since the conclusion of the first phase in May last year, to tell the Government what is the deadline for the start of this second phase of the hospital centre in Vila Nova de Gaia-Espinho. I put a second question: the issue of the debts of hospitals has been referred to a lot in this debate. I have the information that, at the moment, the debt of Vila Nova de Gaia-Spinho hospital is about EUR 45 million, a fairly high value. I believe that there are no financial conditions for abolishing the current debt. But the former administration, which was recently replaced, has repeatedly raised the issue of underfinancing the current management of the hospital centre, in particular the amount of EUR 12 million. I therefore ask the honourable Member if he thinks that we can be calm about the efficiency of the hospital centre, and at the moment there is a clear underfunding in its management. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u121	Mr President, the Bureau has not limited the time given that the same will be discounted in the overall time of the Parliamentary Group and will now apply to the time when Mr Antonio Sales replied. Mr António Sales, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u122	Mr President, Mr Firmino Pereira, I would like to tell you that with regard to the investment in the hospital centre of Vila Nova de Gaia-Espinho, the information I had was that the second stage is already under way and that the funding will be guaranteed. But, Mr President, I think your question had a more general scope than it had to do with investment. As you know, this government has found many hospital facilities and many equipment in deep degradation and the way has been made step by step. We have made investments in primary health care, today we have the largest number of units in activity and are going to be built 70 health centers, four new hospitals, two major expansions in the IPO of Lisbon and the Garcia de Orta Hospital, interventions in 48 hospitals.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u123	Tell me who they are!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u124	We already have more beds in continuous and palliative care. Mr Deputy, then speaking of investment, don't you think this is enough? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u125	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor for a new intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u126	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: A debate and an afternoon to discuss health and, indeed, on the part of the PSD and the CDS-PP have not yet heard any proposals. It is appropriate to say, by adapting the film, that they say any little thing in defense of the National Health Service, any little thing, only one proposal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u127	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u128	In fact, to be real and realistic, we couldn't expect that neither the PSD nor the CDS-PP, because the truth is that they didn't defend the National Health Service in the past, they won't do it now, they won't do it in the future. About 35 hours, what they did in the past, and what they propose now, was to force workers to work longer hours for the same salary, is the only thing they have to propose. They don't talk about the replacement of value per extraordinary hour, they don't talk about the replacement of wage cuts because they're in favor of those cuts, they imposed those cuts, and they would be working for you. Mr. Miguel Santos, in his speech, spoke — and very well — about a project by the Left Block that proposes saving the private to invest in the National Health Service. We understand why it is so sour about this project, it is because it does not agree with it, the PSD voted against it and this justifies the fact that during the PSD/CDS-PP government the transfer of money to privates has increased. This is because income to the conventionees has increased during your government. The honourable Member also spoke about specialized training. Not only did you change the medical boarding school regime, as they voted against a left block bill that guarantees vaguely to all newly licensed doctors, they ended up chuming this project, but we will insist. In short, the PSD proposals, and the CDS-PP were zero and because they have no proposals are not interlocutors and therefore are not in the debate that is necessary. On the issue of the European Medicines Agency, which has already been addressed here, the position of the Left Block is known. We think we should look for other cities. We also believe that this Agency should not focus on Lisbon and that it can be a focus on attracting investment to places other than capital. The European Medicines Agency is currently located in London and it does not show that this creates special difficulties in the relationship and communication, for example with Infarmed. So why not your location in another city other than Lisbon? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u129	I am returning to some of the questions I addressed in the first speech: on the National Programme for Vaccination, and taking into account the Minister's response, we are pleased to see that the confirmation that Infarmed made today in the press that the transfer of the National Programme for Vaccination to Pharmacies was on the table. There's a retreat and it's great to get any idea out of the table, any negotiation that existed. Great work, great service provided to the National Health Service. [[Congratulations from BE.]] I would, however, like to reiterate some of the issues that we also put in our first intervention. The National Health Service needs, as everyone knows, more professionals. It is true that we cannot be dependent on companies, employers, often these companies act mercenaryly on the National Health Service, there is no doubt about it, but this measure has to be complemented with others. The proposals of the Left Block are clear on this subject: to strengthen the competitions for the hiring of more doctors and nurses, in fact, in the State Budget for 2017 there is a standard set by the Left Block concerning an extraordinary contest of nurses for the National Health Service. It is necessary to carry out and go further for the hiring of more professionals, but it is also necessary, and it is very important, to resolve the issue of newly licensed doctors who are not having access to specialized training. In 2015, there were 114, in 2016, 158, in 2017, at risk of being 700. This question comes from 2015, it is true, but it must be resolved. The National Health Service lacks many doctors and nobody understands that a country where the National Health Service needs so many doctors, in so many specialties, is wasting 700 newly trained doctors, denying them access to specialty and specialized work. It is necessary to find solutions to open more vacancies and so that these doctors can have access to the National Health Service. We insist again on another measure proposed by the Left Block, which we have already presented here in the Assembly of the Republic, which was plunged by PSD, PS and CDS-PP, which has to do with greater autonomy in hiring hospitals, especially hospitals of the National Health Service, when there are workers in temporary absence of work. That is, if someone, for example, is on the ground, the hospital should be able to immediately hire a worker to replace him. They are fundamental measures to improve the National Health Service and improve the care and care provided to users. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u130	Mr Luís Vales has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It seems that Mr Moisés Ferreira is not reminded that this government has been in office almost two years ago and with a State budget that you have supported, approved and with those documents which have also signed at the closed door. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u132	Therefore responsibilities are shared by the various parliamentary boards that support the government. But I am talking about medicine policy: in April 2016, the Minister committed himself to reaching by 2019, i.e. by two years, a market share of generic medicines by 60 %. Between 2011 and 2015, the former Government increased this quota from 22 % to 47 % more than doubled. in these almost two years of government, you have only increased the market share of generics from 47 % to a very low enviable 47, 3 %, I repeat, Minister, 47, 3 %. I mean, in four years, we rose the share of the generics by 25 percentage points and in two years you rose it by 0, 3 %. And did the Minister have the courage to say, in his initial speech, that the share of generics increased? Oh, my God! That's right, Minister. This is true. - Up at 0, 3%! Mr Minister, this stagnation in generic medicines does not contribute to the sustainability of the National Health Service, adversely affects companies that produce them but, above all, harms patients, especially the most disadvantaged. Perhaps that is why Mr. Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block, that the Government is hiding from all the value of the generic market share since December 2016, i.e. more than half a year ago. That is why it was important for us to see whether the Minister continues to promise that the same quota will reach 60 % in 2019 and when it will re-publish data on the evolution of the generic quota. Mr. Moisés Ferreira, recently the President of the Northern Regional Council of the Medical Order, Dr. António Araújo, said that «the entire National Health Service is experiencing a very difficult time» and that the situation « has been worsening». Dr. António Araújo even reported that «there are hospital units that have serious difficulties in buying medicines due to lack of money», a situation for which it has contributed the increase of SNS debts to its suppliers. This lack of medicines does not unfortunately occur only in SNS hospitals. Also in the pharmacy patients have difficulty aviding medicines, such as diabetes—and you know—that still this month there have been failures in some insulins and antidiabetics.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u133	Is this an unprecedented situation? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u134	What will Mr. Minister say about this lack of medication in public hospitals and even in pharmacy? Well, you don't seem to have anything to say, because you still deny reality. What do you and your allies of the Portuguese Communist Party have to say, since they continue to deal with these situations, diminishing even the intellectual capacity of their own militants, the militants of the Communist Party and the militants of the Left Block, who are already beginning to realize that you have abandoned the struggle, disillusioned with the power of the government corridors? It was important to know what concrete measures this Government will take to ensure that SNS users do not continue to have difficulties in accessing the treatments prescribed for them, because hospitals cannot acquire the necessary medicines due to lack of money. Last month, it was reported that ADSE stopped sharing some medicines to 100 % for the treatment of cancer patients or multiple sclerosis, leading them to pay 20 % of their cost, which implies a monthly cost of over 200 €. Mr. Minister, 200 € per month! For a month! We also need to understand a very simple question: ADSE has dropped the participation of certain medicines for patients with multiple sclerosis to 80% when they were prescribed in private hospitals. If patients are treated in public hospitals, they invoice ADSE medicines, which are thus shared with 100 %. In other words, it is discrimination without any meaning and that clearly violates the rights of users.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u135	That already existed in the Government of Exa!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u136	Therefore, Mr. Moisés Ferreira, it was important to realize which side is which side the Left Block is, if it is on the side of the patients, the SNS users, or if it remains silent, fleeing the struggle but put into the government offices of this government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u137	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I have just said, unfortunately, that Mr Luís Vales would make an intervention, but, in fact, it was a request for clarification to Mr Moisés Ferreira, to whom I give the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u138	Mr President, Mr Luís Vales, I thank you for the questions you have raised. Only the PSD did not realize which side the Left Block is on, but this is part of the chaos in which the party has lived and, finally, this transmutation that they have made from political party to political comment, to political commentators. Surely one day they'll understand when things calm down around. [[PSD protests.]] The honourable Member has said enough about the quota of generics to conclude that she has, after all, risen. Therefore, in fact, I did not fully understand your question, because the quota rose.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u139	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u140	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that Mr. Luís Vales spoke of the parameters that characterized the policy of the previous government, and I bring to him two more : between 2010 and 2015, there was a cut in the functioning of the SNS of 1430 million euros, and the financing was reduced by State budget transfers, to 969 million euros, by PSD authorship / CDS-PP. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u141	Mr. President, will you excuse me from speaking?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u142	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u143	It is for an appeal to the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u144	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u145	Mr President, I call on the Bureau to distribute two documents: the Journal of the Republic of 26 May 2017, in which the number of vacancies for entry and by area of specialization for medical training in 2017, and a document of the National Association of Medical Students, which demonstrates precisely the number of students this year who have been prevented from accessing specialized medical training and which shows, in essence, that you have adulted reality without any shame. That number tripled in the last two years! Triple!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u146	Mr President, these documents will be distributed barely to the Bureau. For an intervention, Mrs Marisabel Moutela has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u147	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: I'm completely and absolutely surprised. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u148	Mr Miguel Santos, who has been continually accusing the Minister of Health, and even some other ministers of not answering the questions put to him, has just taken on the role of protagonist of his own accusations. Mr. Miguel Santos, my colleague Mr.António Sales put the questions to you in order to know what was the cut in public health spending realized between 2011 and 2015, in Portugal, and, from this court, how much was transferred or, better, downloaded for the expenses of families in their health expenses. Personally, I believe that you know how to respond, because it would be serious if you did not know and even because you used to be very fixed in numbers, especially when out of line, everyone, and on time, outside the people. Therefore, we believe that the honourable Member has not responded because the answer would indeed derail at all the rhetoric of the interventions that have been made here at the level of health. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But, Mr, I will tell you: it was a cut of 9, 7 %. It was a cut of 9, 7% that withdrew from public health spending and unloaded in the care of families. This court, sirs. Members, represented in direct payments from families, with consultations, purchase of medicines and diagnostic examinations, nothing less than 26, 8 % of GDP in 2014 and 27, 6 % of GDP in 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u149	This hurts! This hurts!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u150	How did you guys do that? Members of the PSD and the CDS, after a court of these, who was truly bloody for families, can have the courage to come here indignantly with what is being done by the current government in health? Oh, my God! Of course, we are already ready to watch one more scene of the PSD/CDS Lda film productions. [[PS laughter.]] Here comes another chapter in which we will say that the PS is "buracologist" and that you are rigour, but it does not do any good, because indeed these scenes are no longer hearings. Minister, what we understand is that the National Health Service is walking and is more sustainable... [[PSD protests.]] Yes, yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen! [[P.S.'s applause.]] You don't like it, but you just don't know why you think it's disturbing to go to a simple health portal. If they didn't find it, they concluded the same thing as we did: the SNS is more sustainable. The production of medical activity is also growing, either in terms of financing, or in terms of its own activity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u151	Mrs Marisabel Moutela, the Bureau has registered a Member for a request for clarification. To that end, Mr Miguel Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u152	Mr President, Mrs Marisabel Moutela, let me tell you, first of all, that the challenge, in the next debate we have, is to sign up when I make my statements, because that allows there to be a contradiction.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u153	He's got it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u154	We're still here!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u155	In fact, this has already happened to several Members of this bench. When the time of contradiction is exceeded, then they resolve to make use of some statements. I take this opportunity, Madam Commissioner, to congratulate you, because I did not really know you with so much property and knowledge of so many data. I would like to recommend, on this point, the careful reading of the beginning of the sad story, which is the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 101 -A / 2010, and of all the measures that the Government of then saw in the obligation to adopt.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u156	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u157	I will finish, Mr. President. When you know the beginning of the whole story, you may realize that we can't go back and re-edit the same unfortunate story that has happened in this country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u158	You bastards were the four years of your government!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u159	In reply, Mrs Marisabel Moutela has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u160	Mr. President, Mr. Miguel Santos! Open... [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Deputies, I thank you and I fully accept the challenge: let's do this! Absolutely! I also want to tell you that I knew there was that little thing to say that the PS government is "buracologist". But do you know the difference? It is that the troika found it necessary to cut 500 million euros in expenditure. Do you know how much your government cut? Three times more! EUR 1500 million, Member of the Commission! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u161	Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. Members who create conditions for all of us to be able to hear Mr Ramos, who will make an intervention. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Health policy continues to be shaped by fundamental problems of the National Health Service that have been dragged and intensified for years. A first and cross-sectional problem is the under-financing of the SNS, which poses serious problems to the requalification of services, the renewal of equipment and compromises the response capacity. There are some more extreme cases, such as the INEM case, in which cars are missing and many professionals, whose failure will amount to 442. This lack cannot justify the installation of a professional subcontracting strategy. We are repeatedly confronted with needs for requalification of services, with the lack of medicines and vaccines, with delays in responses to users, whether from consultations, complementary tests of diagnosis, surgery or treatment, deficiencies that have implications for users with waiting times delayed for surgery and treatments and, in many cases, beyond the recommended one. These difficulties also have an expression in the models of transport of patients, previously altered by the PSD and CDS, which do not meet the needs of patients. Another serious health problem is that of human resources. over the years, and with special intensity in the governments of the PSD and the CDS, health professionals have reached high levels of demobilization, emigrated, reformed in advance so as not to lose more income and dignity, with implications for the ability to respond services, particularly formative. The government has already reversed some of the evils, with the replacement of 35 hours or the hiring of retired doctors, but it needs to go much further. The fights and strikes of doctors, nurses, operational assistants and diagnostic and therapeutic technicians reveal many of the problems that continue to be solved. It has already moved forward, but it has taken a long time to rest extraordinary and quality hours, which cannot have discrimination and inequalities between the different professional categories. More nurses are needed and 35 hours for all. It is necessary to review or create careers such as diagnostic and therapeutic technicians and pharmacists, and it is taking too long. But it is also necessary to resume career progressions, as an important element for the appreciation of professionals. We need a serious and decisive fight against job insecurity. We know that the matter is not soluble immediately, but it must be consolidated in order to ensure that measures, such as the reduction of 35 % in subcontracting, do not compromise the provision of care. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: To fall into obsolescence is easier than to renew. Promoting emigration is easier than attracting technicians. Sending users to the private is easier and better for private claims than strengthening the capacity of the SNS. The former PSD/CDS government did what was easier, but now it is necessary to do what is necessary. The need is to value and strengthen the capacity of SNS, to value, professional, wage and social workers. Health workers and PS know they can count on the PCP to do what is necessary. Today the Government has at its disposal instruments to do what is necessary. These instruments must be used to the limit. Workers put high expectations in the government arising from the new political situation fostered by the 2015 elections. The government must not fail to meet these expectations. The Minister of Health has already stated that the biggest activity of the SNS is the satisfaction of its professionals. That this statement has consequences! [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u163	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Our first explanation is that we are not angry with fair claims and the strike, which has been mentioned here, we consider it an inalienable right that should be used when it is considered relevant. Trade unions play their part. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are very well associated with this legitimacy. [[So are we!]] [[So are we!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u165	Already the CDS and PSD do not support, continue to fail, the legitimacy that exists in this government solution. It is time to adapt to what is happening in Portugal. This radicalism has little or nothing to do with reality. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] We don't deny it, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are problems and we know that many still persist in time and as a result of your governance, but we have been able to produce results, and that is what we have done. Secondly, there is no provision for a 35 % reduction in human resources expenditure. This is expected, however, to reduce 35 % of expenditure on the acquisition of health care services, i.e. the use of contracts under the provision of services either individually or through companies. They disagree, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u166	It depends!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u167	We are, in fact, reversing a situation that you are in. Ladies and gentlemen, who are now in opposition, have left us. This rule, which is so combated, aims to reduce the use of the provision of services either individually or through companies, because this modality — we think and we thought that you also thought — should be understood as exceptional. If not, then tell us what you think, because all your argument makes no sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u168	Do it, do it! It's hiring doctors!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u169	We intend to give further clarification: they have spoken here about the evolution of human resources in the health sector and, in fact, we have a framework that is irreversible. That is, in 2011 there were 24 145 doctors in the National Health Service, in 2017, we already have 29 382 — perhaps these are numbers that the government may even clarify better. The number of nurses, who, for example, was so much spoken here, in 2011 was 40 085 and, at the moment, in 2017, with the exception of error at the end of the first quarter—and I would also appreciate that the government could rectify these numbers if they were not correct— is 42 985. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are pleased, although aware that the problems remain. We will continue to reverse the path followed by VV. Ex., transfer to private and devalue health professionals. We still have a lot of investments we could talk about. However, we have not been able to respond to how many emergencies the PSD/CDS government wanted to close, in 2015, and these, yes, by decree, but I can remember: Fafe, Oliveira do Hospital, Oliveira de Azemés,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u170	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u171	I will now finish, Mr President. As I was remembering, the PSD/CDS government intended to close the urgencys of Fafe, Oliveira do Hospital, Oliveira de Azemés, Santo Tirso, Valongo, Lagos, Loulé, Montemor, Montijo, Peniche, Serpa and Tomar. This, just as an example. Ladies and gentlemen. Members : Another very important area that has been a priority for this government has been access to...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u172	Mrs. Deputy, you have to do the right thing to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u173	Just a little tolerance, Mr President, because no new 51 drugs have been mentioned here. In view of this commitment, we would like to know from the Government what is going to happen to the target of 100 medicines and what is the current situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u174	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u175	To finish, and because today is the World Blood Donor Day, I wanted to congratulate all blood donors for the gift they make, knowing that national reserves are at comfortable levels and guarantee self-sufficiency,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u176	Mrs. Deputy...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u177	...but we need to attract more donors and remember that we actually ended the moderate rates for blood donors. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u178	I suppose none of the parliamentary groups that still have time wishes to use this time at this stage...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u179	Mr. President, if I may...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u180	You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u181	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : We are, in fact, almost at the end of this debate and what the CFP would like to reaffirm, contrary to others who, by the way, have now aroused problems in the National Health Service, problems that they have created and intensified, is the need, urgency and urgency for problems to be solved in the National Health Service. In fact, there is a need to hire professionals who are missing. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u182	It is necessary to combat intensive use of temporary work, and each temporary work must be made an effective bond. Only this is the fact that it will enable the provision of quality health care and the strengthening of the National Health Service.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u183	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u184	That is why we have contributed, that is why professionals and users know that they can count on us, contrary to what others have done here, which was to stage and whiten their responsibilities. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u185	For an intervention at this stage of debate, Mr Minister for Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u186	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me to reply in particular to Mr Luís Vales of the PSD, because he has raised some questions here which I think are relevant to clarify. With regard to the first issue on ADSE, I have seen this news more than once and I believe that you will not have had the opportunity to see the clarification of ADSE : ADSE has limited itself to enforce a law, as is the result of its own regulation of 2014. ADSE shares 100 % medicines in the oncological area, never shared 100 % in the context and for the purpose of the diagnostic condition of the case referred to above. In fact, this patient would have, and he has, the right to receive 100% therapy in public hospitals. And more than that, what was found was that the private unit was failing to comply with the rigour it should have in the contractual relationship with ADSE. It's settled! As for Mr President of the Northern Regional Council, we look forward with curiosity and great interest to the nominal identification of health institutions and medicines to which Mr President has referred. I have already had the opportunity to ask you for this information myself. The honourable Member said that families pay more, but no, Mr, they pay a lot less today in the pharmacy. They pay a lot less and will pay even less, with the entry, this year and next, of more generic in the system.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u187	We're waiting!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u188	More, Mr. Member : this Government has made a strategic agreement with the National Pharmacy Association ( ANF ) and the Association of Pharmacys of Portugal ( AFP ) to encourage, a pest to the pharmacy, to sell and promote, in the dispensation, the cheapest generic medicines. Mr President, as I know that we are on the verge of having good news about the waste, I wanted to say that the word is never "waste". And you can be sure that my word is that at the end of the Parliament in 2019 we will have the 60 % of the Government Programme, of course with the support of doctors, pharmacists and users and with the entry of much more generic medicines into the system. Finally, Mr President, to conclude, on innovation and biosimilars, I insist: 51 innovative medicines approved last year! It never happened like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u189	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u190	We can even disclose the molecules, so that it is well understood what the therapeutic value of each of them is. On savings, Mr President, see what was the rate of use of biosimilars in hospitals at the time of your government and see what is the rate of use today. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u191	At this stage of debate, Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u192	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In conclusion, when we are approaching the end of the debate, it seems clear to us, even by the intervention of Mrs Maria Antonio Almeida Santos, that this Government and this majority are satisfied with what they are doing and that basically those who protest, the users who protest, some even of user committees linked to parties that support this government, are kind of ungrateful. This majority and this government are misunderstood, they've done everything well, it's all right, there's no problem,... [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonio Almeida Santos.]] ...in the Order of Physicians are ungrateful, in the Order of Nurses are ungrateful, the hospital directors who resign are ungrateful and even those to whom this government owes money are ungrateful, because they have come to protest. [[PS protests.]] This is the state of absolute denial reached by the Government of the Socialist Party, supported by the PCP, the Left Block and the Green Party. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u193	It is that, who walks on the street, who talks to people, who talks to professionals, knows perfectly that ungrateful are those who say they defend the National Health Service...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u194	But who spoke in gratitude? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u195	...and then they sell the interests of the National Health Service, in the name of their interest, which is the defense of a solution of power. [[PS protests.]] The truth is, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the practice of this government is very clear, and we have even had the Prime Minister here saying that the question of captivating is good management. And basically, it translates into this: I buy today, I pay when I can, if I can and how I can. Now, Mr President, this was, for a long time, the solution of another Government of the Socialist Party that took us where it took us...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u196	I was missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u197	...and I fear that, with all this satisfaction, singing and laughing, one more day we will return to it. This is regrettable!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u198	That's what you guys wanted!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u199	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the debate, and we will therefore proceed to the conclusion. You have the floor, on behalf of the Inter-Pelent Party, Mr Luís Montenegro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u200	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : More than a year and a half has passed since the Socialist Party, the Communist Party and the Left Block took over the country. These parties respond today by the state in which our National Health Service is located. It is no longer time to apologize or to raise responsibilities for third parties. They wanted to rule, and they wanted to rule, now against the will of the people, expressed in elections, but wanted to rule,... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u201	That's what you still don't understand today!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u202	... and now they have to confront what they're doing to the National Health Service. And reality is overwhelming! An increasingly indebted National Health Service, with increasingly degraded services, with increasingly unsatisfied users and increasingly demotivated professionals. After a year and a half of the Government of the united Left, the balance sheet of the current health policy can be synthesized in three d: lack of control, lack of investment and despair. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u203	Let's start with the lack of control. Uncontrollability in budgetary implementation, uncontrollability in late payments and uncontrollability in debt. Despite government propaganda, reality shows that budgetary implementation in health has suffered a growing deterioration. It's not just the PSD that says so. Less than a month ago, the Directorate-General for Budget recognized this. Last year, the amount of late payments for public hospitals increased by 20 %. And only in the first four months of this year, late payments in hospitals have worsened 30 %, compared to the previous year. The SNS debt to drug suppliers increased by 24 %. In the medical devices sector, evolution is no better. Last April, the total debt of hospitals to companies supplying these devices almost reached EUR 280 million, an increase of 17 % compared to the previous year. We also accumulate debts, as we have already mentioned in this debate, from the National Health Service to firebomb corporations, which already reach the EUR 30 million, while hospitals are paying bills with more than one year. With more than one year, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! However, the government's delays in paying for continuing care units, most of which belong to the social sector, call into question its viability and support to thousands of users of the National Health Service. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the reality is only this: the PS has returned, the crates have returned. There's only one new thing: now, the Left Block and the PCP beats the caps in the health area! [[PSD applause.]] What about the investment? [[Protests from PCP MP Carla Cruz.]] I know it hurts, but it'll still hurt. [[PS protests.]] Despite political folklore numbers for local elections and the confident conversation of tomorrows singing, the fact is that this government has made a brutal cut in public investment in the National Health Service. Otherwise we see: in 2016, the investment in SNS decreased by more than 34 %. Repeatedly, it decreased by more than 34 % compared to 2015. And in the first four months of this year, government investment in the National Health Service fell by 54 % over the same period of 2016, which reduced this investment to a few small EUR 11 million. It is therefore appropriate to ask Mrs Catarina Martins and Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, before this authentic hecatomb of public investment, where the left is. Where are the patriotic and left-wing concerns that once appeared, regarding the National Health Service? Now they are accomplices to this agony where our health system walks. [[PSD applause.]] How can the PCP and the Left Block be politically so inconsequential in the face of delayed surgeries and delays in medical consultations, lack of medicines in hospitals and reductions in drug sharing, failures and closures of ambulances in the medical emergency and ongoing privatization of the helitransport of INEM(National Institute of Medical Emergency )? Just look at this example, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the difficult years that preceded that where we are, the result of the bankruptcy to which the Socialist Party led the country in 2011, despite all the difficulties, the governments led by the PSD have built seven new hospitals in the country. this year and a half, despite the government's promises and trusted conversation,... [[Protests from PCP MP Carla Cruz.]] ...the truth is only one: there is no on the ground, and much less built, no new hospital, no new unit!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u204	You've built everything!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u205	But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, if uncontrollable and uninvestment in the National Health Service are undeniable, there is also despair in the area of health. I hope, of course, that the Government has decided a 35 % blind cut in the acquisition of professional health services. In fact, even threatened, civil, financial and disciplinaryly, hospital managers who did not immediately impose these drastic cuts on their services.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u206	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u207	I will finish, Mr. President. This elucidative measure of this new austerity, you see, will cause the lack of health professionals in hospitals, such as the Bastonary of the Medical Order itself has been reporting. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen — and with this I shall finish, Mr President — the worst despair is even the despair of the people,... [[PCP protests.]] ... desperate that are with the blind cuts of the government ; desperate that are with the lack of professionals ;...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u208	But there are more professionals!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u209	... desperate that are with so many delays, so much delays and so much lack of response from the National Health Service. The PSD has denounced in this appeal the insufficient contradiction between the political discourse of the Government and its acquittals and the reality of the facts. Government, PS, PCP, Left Block, all live content with two sides:...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u210	No, tonekas! That's the boy Tantecas' speech again!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u211	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u212	...the two sides of socialists, bloggers and communists are questioning the protection and right of Portuguese to health. We will remain firm and faithful to the social state,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u213	Mr. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u214	...knowing that the Portuguese deserve a serious and patriotic government and not the merry troika of Costa, Catarina and Jerome. [[PS laughter.]] It's true! Portugal needs a serious and patriotic government, but it is not left-wing. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u215	You now have the floor, for an intervention at the end of the debate, Minister of Health, Adalberto Campos Fernandes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u216	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government came, as was its obligation, to Parliament to be confronted with an inquiry into health policy. I confess that we leave here with a high level of frustration. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u217	Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u218	Is the boy Tonekas' teacher coming now? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u219	The conversation was summarized as a list of scattered, diffuse, and even confusing cases, homes and episodes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u220	Of course, people's health are cases and homes...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u221	We realize that, by paraphrasing a little the organization of Mr. Luís Montenegro's presentation, we will probably be confronted with a triad where there is a prevailing lack of control, investment and despair. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Clearly, the lack of control of the political agenda, because what we saw here was a lack of control of the political agenda, an interpellation on health policy in which you spoke of everything but what the PSD thinks about the country, in terms of health. For example, on professional careers, on the relationship between sectors, on the financing model, on training and research, on the development strategy, above all we have not heard anything. We've only seen him repeat the cases, the homes and the neighbor's history. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, unlike the PSD and the CDS, we are very proud to be left-wing and we believe that a serious and responsible government is more likely a left-wing government than a right-wing government. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What actually leads to this disinvestment—and now we are going to the second d of the PSD—the uninvestment in political proposals, is the disagreement with history. Since it was the economic devil, the fall of investment, the fall of employment, the growth of the economy — perhaps now, even with good news from other parts of the world — we had to quickly find an agenda. Maybe the social agenda, because this is very expensive to the people,... [[PSD protests.]] ...the people who suffer are very sensitive to the social agenda. But you know so much about this kind of speech, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't think people will understand that. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is about de-investment, about dismantling when the country has the largest number of professionals that there is memory, when the redignification of careers and the condition of work is being done, of course, Mrs. Members, in a framework of economic and budgetary responsibility, that is what confuses you. It is that the government is responsible from the budgetary point of view and is therefore not in an open bar policy, distributing the money it does not have and the resources that are not wrong and right. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But there is also something the government does. The government has a great sense of humility and neither I nor any member of the government come to this bench saying that it is all right. It's not all right, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. It was not us who went through the hospitals two years ago, in the middle of the crisis, to see patients piled up in monkeys and to say that the patients were very well installed.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u222	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u223	No, we're not saying that, sir! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We say that unfortunately there is still a lot wrong and we have in fact conditions, will and determination so that the exercise of these four years with the four years of VV will be unrivalled until the end of the legislature. Ex.. Finally, to conclude, I leave a note on the third part. What's the third d, Mr. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen? It's despair. It is despair because, a year and a half ago, political stability persists, the parties understand themselves. They differ in what they have to diverge but converge on what is essential. And this is perhaps the greatest sense of despair for those who convene a government member and the State Secretaries to discuss health policies and discuss lateralities, not bringing to the country a single proposal that is positive, constructive, of recovery of the National Health Service. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u224	This concludes this appeal to the Government. We say goodbye to the members of the government here. We shall now enter the voting period. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot do so will have to signal to the Bureau and then register in person, so that their presence at the meeting is considered. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 191 presences, to which five are added, of the Members. Deputies Jorge Duarte Costa and José Moura Soeiro, of BE, João Soares, of PS ; Feliciano Barreiras Duarte, of PSD, and Telmo Correia, of CDS-PP, making 196 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes. Let us begin with vote No 339 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Despite the death of Alipio de Freitas ( BE, PS, The Greens and PAN ), which will be read by Secretary Moses Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u225	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « ‘Man of great firmness’ — so sang Zeca Afonso. And so was Alipio de Freitas. Born in Vinhais, in 1929, he was a priest and a journalist, he was Portuguese and was a Brazilian and, above all, a fighter of a whole life for freedom and emancipation of the poor people. Ordered priest in 1952, he chose to live with the poorest, first with the peasants of the Montesinho greenhouse and then in a suburb of São Luís do Maranhão, associating himself with the most excluded in the creation of a parish, but also a school and a medical post. With unusual courage, he faced the landscaping oligarchies of the Brazilian Northeast defending, at the risk of his life, peasants without land. He helped to establish the Camponese Leagues and was active in the land struggle. This boldness was worth a first kidnapping by a paramilitary group and detention for more than a month at the order of the Army. With the 1964 military coup, and already underground, he created the Revolutionary Workers' Party. In May 1970 he was arrested and subjected to intense torture. His firm and lofty behavior in prison and torture has become legendary. He always refused to give statements and only the broad international solidarity campaign he was the target—in which he included the song that Zeca Afonso dedicated to him, on the album With My Tamamkinhas, and several interventions of Portuguese diplomacy—has allowed him to preserve his life. It would be necessary to denounce its torturers in the book Resist is necessary, published after their release in 1979. After a passage through Mozambique, he returned to Portugal, having worked at RTP until 1994. He co-authored several programmes and a member of his Committee of Workers. He participated in various social movements, including the World Court on Iraq and the World Social Forum. He was also founder of the Block of Left in 1999 as well as of several civic associations, such as the José Afonso Association and the Casa do Brasil de Lisboa. Although he had completely lost sight in recent years, Alipio de Freitas continued to be a constant presence, always guided by his companion, Guadalupe, in movements of international solidarity or civic mobilization. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its regret at the death of Alipo de Freitas and expresses its solidarity to its relatives and friends. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u226	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] We turn to vote No 338/ XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Praised for 30. the anniversary of the Erasmus Program ( PS and BE ), which will be read by Secretary Idália Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u227	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Created on 13 June 1987, the Erasmus Programme became undoubtedly one of the most successful programmes of the European Union. Beyond the original objectives, it has already managed to give 9 million young people the opportunity to study and gain life experience in another country other than that of their birth and/or origin. Currently, the Erasmus + Programme will provide the participation of 4 million Europeans, of all ages, in similar programmes of study, training and volunteering. Gaining experience in this way is probably the smartest way to build European citizenship, particularly in a Europe that in many places seems to want to prevent the mobility and integration of its citizens and immigrants looking for us. There have never been so many billions of euros used so well in sharing knowledge and building real bridges of communication and dialogue between the different European peoples. Together with the Marie Curie Scholarship programme for researchers, these two instruments continue to be, by far, those that most effectively help to build the links Europe needs so much to ensure a future of peace and sustainable. And they could not have chosen better names for these programs: Erasmus, by many considered ‘the prince of the humanists’, because it was who, in the bloody period of the Reformation, worked more to defend religious tolerance; Marie Curie, because as a Polish born and having chosen to make his life in Paris, having been the only woman to receive two Nobel prizes in a scientific world that at the time was dominated by men, contributed profoundly to the change of scientific paradigms that permeated the whole 20th century. Thus the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, welcomes the commemoration of 30. the anniversary of the Erasmus Programme, praising its results and the positive impact on the process of European integration through the dialogue and sharing of knowledge built through the mobility of students and teachers. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u228	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP and the PCP's abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u229	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u230	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u231	Mr President, to inform you that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u232	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We shall vote on the application submitted by the CFP, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without a 60-day vote of Bill No 137 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Combats job insecurity and strengthens workers'rights ( CFP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The general vote is followed by Bill No. 330 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the temporary work regime by limiting its use and strengthening the rights of workers ( 10th amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 approving the Labour Code ) ( PCP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We shall vote on the application, submitted by the NAP, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without a 60-day vote of Bill No 550 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Labour Code and the Labour Procedure Code by introducing amendments to the labour contract presumption regime and to the certain resolution contract ( NAP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 554 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Restricts the use of temporary work and combats false temporary work ( BE ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We are now voting on draft resolution No 924 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of information on labour rights and the strengthening of supervision within the framework of labour relations ( NAP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 435 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — An integrated strategy for wine experimentation, research and innovation in the Demarcada do Douro Region ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PSD, the CDS-PP and the PAN, the PS, the PCP and the Greens and the Abstaining of BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u233	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u234	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u235	Mr President, to announce that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u236	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We now have to vote on draft resolution No 637 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strategy for research and innovation in the agri-food sector ( PSD ) for which the NAP requested that items 1 and 2 be voted separately. Let us therefore vote on point 1 of this motion for a resolution. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, with votes against the PSD and with abstentions from the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] Let us now vote on point 2. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, with votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 920 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Research and innovation in the agroecology sector ( The Greens ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 922 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the laboratories of the State of the Ministries of Agriculture and the Sea ( CFP ) for which the Socialist Party requested that items 1 and 2 be voted together and point 3 separately. Let us then vote on points 1 and 2. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] Let us now vote on point 3. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 923/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen the support, monitoring and agricultural advice services of the Ministry of Agriculture ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, against the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PS and PS.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 544 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Eighty amendments to the Nationality Act, adopted by Law No. 31 / 87 of 3 October, amended by Law No. 25 / 94 of 19 August, by Decree-Law No. 322 -A / 2001 of 14 December, and by Organic Laws No. 1 / 2004 of 15 January, No. 2 / 2006 of 17 April, No. 1 / 2013 of 29 July, No. 8 / 2015 of 22 June, and No. 9 / 2015 of 29 July ( PS ).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u237	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u238	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u239	Mr President, I have now noticed that you have not submitted a request from the PS Parliamentary Group, requesting that this bill be dropped to 1. the Commission, without a vote, for a period of 60 days, and I now present an oral request to that effect.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u240	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to wait a moment. [[Pause.]] I am informed by Secretary Duarte Pacheco that there are other requirements for congenerous projects to be brought down to the Commission, but for a period of 30 days. Therefore, if the Socialist Party changes for an equal period, we can vote on the demands together.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u241	Of course, Mr. President. The PS shall amend the application for a period of 30 days.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u242	Therefore, we shall then vote together on the requests made by the respective authors—with the Socialist Party making an oral request—, asking the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees to be discharged without a vote, for a period of 30 days, relative, respectively, to the projects of lein. 544 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Eighty amendments to the Nationality Act, adopted by Law No. 31 / 87 of 3 October, amended by Law No. 25 / 94 of 19 August, by Decree-Law No. 322 -A / 2001 of 14 December, and by Organic Laws No. 1 / 2004 of 15 January, No. 2 / 2006 of 17 April, No. 1 / 2013 of 29 July, No. 8 / 2015 of 22 June, and No. 9 / 2015 of 29 July ( PS ), 428 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Nineth amendment to Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October ( Nationality Act ) ( PCP ) and 548 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Alter the Nationality Act ( NAP). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 477 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the public control of the technical management activity of the National Electric System by separating its exploitation activity from the national electricity network ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP and the Greens and the NAP abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u243	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u244	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u245	Mr President, to announce that the CFP will deliver a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u246	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. We now vote in general on Bill No. 482 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Agrees on the free choice of domestic electricity consumers by the regulated tariff regime by amending Decree-Law No 75 / 2012 of 26 January ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] This diploma goes down to 6. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u247	PSD always votes against!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u248	We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 545 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Determines the elimination of costs for maintaining the contractual balance ( CMEC ) and energy acquisition contracts ( CEA ) with EDP and other companies in the electro-producer ( CFP ) sector. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS and PS and with votes in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u249	The PSD voted a little embarrassed!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u250	Mrs. Members, we shall vote on the request made by the CFP, requesting the discharge of the Committee on Economic Affairs, Innovation and Public Works, without voting for a 60-day period of draft resolution No 780 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — By eliminating the over-cost of investment in energy networks and by public control of the REN ( CFP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now vote on draft resolution No 925 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends the elimination of excessive income in the so-called costs of maintaining the contractual balance ( BE) ( the initial text was replaced at the author's request ). [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 926 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the amount to be determined in the final adjustment of costs for the maintenance of the contractual balance should be reduced to the 2018 and subsequent electricity rates ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We now have to vote on draft resolution No 860 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote measures to prevent and combat cyberbullying and cybercrime ( CDS-PP ) for which the Socialist Party requested that paragraph ( a) be voted separately from the others, which will be voted together. We therefore begin by voting on point (a) of this draft resolution. [[When put to the vote, the PS, CDS-PP and PAN and votes against BE, the PCP and the Greens were adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN.]] We now vote points (b) to (g). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were rejected and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 546 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Creates educational institutions for school integration ( CFP ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 921 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Prevention and combat of cyberbullying ( The Greens ). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We now vote in general on Bill No. 382 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Eliminates the reduction of 10 % to the amount of unemployment allowance after 180 days of grant ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u251	Did the PS lead the bill?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u252	PSD didn't approve!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u253	We shall generally vote for Bill No. 398 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Renouncing 10 % of the amount of unemployment benefit after 180 days of its grant ( second amendment to Decree-Law No 220 / 2006 of 3 November ) ( PCP ). [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u254	Was the PS leading this project too? You're kidding me!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u255	When the PCP has the 89 Members that the PSD has, we talk!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u256	We moved on to the final overall vote of the final text presented by the National Defence Commission on Bill No 366 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The first amendment to Law No 68 / 2014 of 29 August which approved the legal regime applicable to swimmers throughout the national territory as regards the supervision of activities in public-use pools ( PS ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we also have to vote for three opinions from the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, of which Mr Duarte Pacheco will report.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u257	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of the Diplomatic and Consular General Inspection of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs — Disciplinary Process No 5 / 2016, the Ethics Subcommission of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees issued an opinion to authorize Members José Cesario ( PSD ), Maria Luís Albuquerque ( PSD ) and Paulo Pisco ( PS ) to intervene in the process within the scope of the reference car.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-14.u258	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote for the opinion you just read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to an end. The next plenary meeting will be held on 21, beginning at 3 p.m., and the agenda will have as a single point the appeal to the Government No 12 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — In defence of public health and education services requested by the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block. All Members and all Members. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your cooperation in this session and wish to continue in the afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 45 minutes.]]
