ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our plenary session. [[It was 15 hours and 2 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities to open gallery doors to the public. Before we begin today's agenda, Mrs Emília Santos will read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and the following legislative initiatives have been admitted: Bill No 107 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 48 / 2014, 28 July ( ALRAM ), which falls to 1. the Commission ; drafts of lein. 686 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Ensures the worker's freedom of choice in the receipt of the Christmas allowance and the holiday allowance in twelfths, proceeding to 11. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 687 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Replies the payment values of the supplementary work for all workers by 13. the amendment to Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February approving the Labour Code and 7. the amendment to Law No 35 / 2014 of 20 June, which approves the General Labour Act in Public Functions ( PCP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, and 688 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Includes murder in the context of dating relationship in standard examples relating to the crime of qualifying homicide ( PAN ) ; draft resolutions Nos 1168 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the presentation to Parliament of the new action plan on the promotion of equality in the labour market and the fight against wage inequalities ( PSD ) and 1169 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake short-term rehabilitation and requalification of the José Falcão Secondary School building in Coimbra ( PSD ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Emília Santos. Mrs. Members, we have as our first item on the agenda today an up-to-date debate required by the CFP under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure, on « lack of implementation of measures relating to scientific employment ». Opening the debate for an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One hundred working days later and we continue without contracts under Decree-Law No 57 / 2016, as amended by Law No 57 / 2017, following parliamentary assessment. Four months and 25 days later, there are pockets that have lost their way of performance and that have seen the carry of precariousness sharpen. It is estimated that one in every four fellows who were covered by the transitional standard of the so-called diploma of scientific employment has already been or is in the process of being out of stock by the end of the year. We speak of people, people with faces, some of them and their representatives present here, sitting in the galleries of the Assembly of the Republic, and to whom the PCP, from now on, warmly greets for the struggle for work with rights, for the end of precariousness and for the valorization of scientific work. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] Today, you have to ask what's going on here. So long ago, why has the government, the Ministry, the Foundation for Science and Technology (FCT ) not yet resolved the application of the law that allows these workers access to a contract of employment? Precautionary enough! No more delays! The CFP considers that the situation in scientific research is very worrisome and urgent that it be resolved. More, less, since the government took possession, nearly exclusively doctoral scholarships have been financed. So what about the rest? Problems and doubts accumulate. Clear answers from the government are needed. The 2016 project contests did not open, the 2017 contests took place in February but there are still no known results and we are in December. Doctoral programs ended, there were no competitions for new doctors. What's the way out for the new doctors? There were no competitions for the most experienced doctors. What are these researchers gonna do? Because they are being clearly pushed, too, to save whoever can. The evaluation of the units is not done, will take place by the end of January, and we are at the end of the financing period. How will the institutions, the units deal with the current scenario of uncertainty? There are still systematic delays in sending contracts to new pockets which, being exclusively, remain for months, and months, and months without receipt. On the Scientific Employment Regulation, when do tenders open? Does the Government guarantee that the number of contracts in individual support is equivalent to the post-doc award? But let's go back now, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the implementation of the so-called scientific employment law. in the 2018 specialisation debate of the State budget, held on 14 November, Mr Minister said here that he gave — and I quote — « guidelines expressed to the FCT so that, in the framework of multiannual funding for research units, he would solve all cases of possible scholarships to which the exchanges were completed in the meantime and because the tenders were not opened, they would have the funding needed to not be affected in any way by occasional delays in the opening of the tenders ». And he reinforced what he said earlier by adding: « Anyone who is the investigator who, by chance, ends his scholarship within short time limits which cannot have opened the tenders due to a regulatory procedure, the FCT has clear guidelines to ensure, through multiannual financing of the units, the establishment of the conditions until the opening of the tenders ». On 27 November, the following order signed by the Minister and on the date of the day itself states: « It is recommended that the FCT, IP, adopt the strategic guidance to ensure the eligibility of expenditure to enable institutions to achieve appropriate solutions to the financing of doctors whose contractual relationship has meanwhile ceased ». The FCT then says that « Research and Development Units ( R & D) may, through the strengthening of funding to be allocated for 2018, accommodate some... » — under « some » — «... transitional situations through the allocation of research grants or invited scientific fellowships, bearing in mind always compliance with the Stock Exchange Regulation and the Statute of the Research Exchange ( EBI ), as regards the maximum allowed duration ». What happens, however, to those who, by meeting the conditions, have reached the maximum duration allowed by the Statute of the Research Fellowship and the Stock Exchange Regulation? Will this procedure involve a new waiting period for the pockets? How are the guidelines that the FCT has given to ensure that the stock exchanges that have already been out of stock are not, in fact, damaged? How does the Ministry feel about not opening competitions by the institutions? And, Minister, the key question of this debate: when is the regulation of remuneration ready? We believe there has to be an answer. No longer late, this wrap must be solved quickly. The lives of people, people who have families, who have expenses, who have obligations, who have to survive, people who have to work with rights are at stake. All this just gives reason and strength to what the PCP has been putting over time. It is that the just, appropriate and fundamental solution to the problem of scientific employment is called 'work with rights' and implies, and it must involve, the end of these things, of the scholarships, as we have defended. We have also tabled a proposal for the progressive integration of these pockets for a very short time, at the heart of the State budget. That would have been the right and appropriate solution, but there are problems on the table that require an urgent response. And, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, what we want today is precisely what urgent, timely and clear response the Government will give to resolve the situation of these scientific research scholarships which cannot go on waiting forever. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u5	For an intervention, Mr. Minister for Science, Technology and Higher Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Scientific employment has been, since the first hour, considered the political priority in science and technology and higher education, and this was the priority with which we have been discussing ourselves since November 2015, especially by emphasizing a scientific policy based on humanist values, looking at people, and therefore also nearly doubled today the number of active doctoral scholarships per year and we focused on actively changing the legal regime associated with scientific employment. That is what we started by doing since the beginning of 2016, firstly, at the level of the legislative decree approved in the government which, in good time, this Parliament called for Parliament's appreciation that we supported. And if it is true that this assessment has resulted in a broader spectrum to boost scientific employment, which we have worked and stimulated within the institutions, it is also true that the remuneration levels, resulting from Law No 57 / 2017, adopted in this Parliament in 2017, naturally called for trade union negotiation in constitutional terms with which all certainly in kings. This process refers to the very specific terms in which it must be carried out and surely the honourable Member did not want us to follow those terms. Now, the trade union negotiation, as you know, ended last Thursday and involved a process of great openness of the unions, in particular, and of hearing of the institutions and which therefore involved an extended range that required the necessary time. Today, we have the proposal for a decree in government after it has resulted in a particularly important consensus at the level of the various trade unions. Therefore, we must continue to work, now that we have a 2018 Budget with the necessary cabimentation so that the contests can be opened. I must say that the time that has been associated with trade union negotiations has also had to deal with the need to approve the 2018 Budget, which comes on a proposal from the Government, to establish a Budget which increases the availability of the public time to implement the programme of boosting scientific employment in 2018. So today we have the necessary elements to move quickly, I hope that always in great cooperation with this Parliament, to strengthen the conditions of scientific employment under the Government programme, of course within this legislature. That was our commitment, that is our commitment, that we are undertaking, ensuring at least 5000 new jobs and contracts by the end of 2019. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u7	Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u8	Mr President, Minister, 131 days is the time when the Government has already lost to regulate the remuneration levels of Decree-Law No 57 / 2017, a diploma amended in Parliament by parliamentary assessments of the Left Block and the CFP. Against the initial will of Minister Manuel Heitor, we know, but these amendments are today the law that is not being complied with. We arrived on December 13, two weeks before the end of the first period for opening competitions for these precarious pockets, and the result is, in fact, a hand full of nothing.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u9	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u10	And so is the fight against the precariousness between the sword and Mário Centeno, between the delay in the regulation of Decree-Law No 57 / 2016 and the seizures in the FCT, between Minister Manuel Heitor and the deficit numbers. What, after all, is the government's strategy? Is the delay pure inoperance of the Ministry or is it a political choice to save spending? Is it a problem between the Minister of Science and Finance? Is it not true that the FCT is asking institutions to pay their own salaries for these contracts? If so, it is the government itself responsible for the failure to comply with Decree-Law No 57/2016 and the whole strategy to combat the precariousness of post-doc pockets falls to the ground in an attempt to a promised future that does not pass from a trial of juggling between accounts, State budgets and, in fact, seizures that do not pass, that do not go out to the institutions, not getting the FCT or the Ministry at this time, to respond positively to the problem. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u11	Mr Minister, another Member was appointed for requests for clarification. The information I have is that the Minister will answer together. Mrs Margarida Mano has the floor, therefore, to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u12	I begin by congratulating Mr President, Mr Minister and the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. The Minister is called here to Parliament at a time when there is a real problem of mistrust in the State, generated from the institutional discredit in the Government, which is revealed, in terms of higher education and science, in various aspects, but in particular in the failure to fulfil the commitments made by the Government in relation to the expectations created by the Government itself. The reason why the government brings us here today is that of scientific employment. But there could be others, such as those relating to the State budget, the Community funds, the legislative agreements, etc. Mr. Minister promised greater investment in higher education: plus 4 % in 2016, 2017 and 2018. We put our doubts in good time, the PSD well advised, the most attentive and uncompromising analysts for some time have realized that it was not so well and this week public opinion was confronted with the report on the state of education in 2016, where it can be read: « Higher education has lost EUR 42 million in relation to the budget implementation of 2015, the financing for operation is at the lowest value since 2012... ». And, above all — and I am no longer quoting — from a scientific point of view, the FCT was unable to execute EUR 76.7 million which were budgeted. The Government has promised more investment in higher education and has failed to keep its word. The government entered into a legislative agreement with universities and politicians in July, in which it made two commitments: firstly, to guarantee State budget allocations not less than 2015 plus increases which were naturally assumed by the government ; secondly, to support the government's creation of scientific employment with a legal framework and financial support for the hiring of 3000 researchers in the legislature, 2000 in the universities and 1000 in the polytechnics. With regard to the first commitment to the allocation in the State budget, we have already realized that unfortunately it will not be fulfilled this year. Will it be 2018? The Minister of Finance wants to make you believe that yes, although no words are expected in the State Budget for 2018, but it seems that first you still have to see what the values are. Now, these charges have been paid since January and the government still has doubts about what values are? Oh, my God! What a lack of control! The government did not meet in 2017 and we have many doubts that it pays for 2017 and 2018 in 2018. Let us move on to the second point of the agreement — scientific employment — which is the Ministry's political priority, as Mr President has said. Half of the legislation returned, the number of contracts made within the institutions is zero! The legal framework is not yet completed, and the government has, however, made several mistakes, and I stress the ineligibility of the scholarships, creating real dramas to fellows who, once the scholarships are finished, are not answered, either by scholarship or by scientific use, and the financial support for the opening of tenders which may have been created by private law institutions has not yet been transferred by the FCT. The year 2017 is the first year, among many, in which there was no competition for the hiring of doctors. Researchers are not confident, universities and politicians are not confident and the government's own parliamentary partners require explanations, which is proof of this debate. Having arrived here, the government does not seem to have learned from the mistakes and continues to create expectations that it will not fulfill. In terms of scientific employment, the Government promises to create 3000 contracts to institutions in 2018 — I remember that it is exactly the same number that was negotiated for the entire legislature, exactly the same number as it was for 2017 and so far were created zero - but it will surely be aware that competitions, when opened, in the case of international competitions, will only be completed at best six months later. In view of all that has been said, and the magical comings of the Minister to Parliament, where, suddenly, everything is announced, although almost never solved—and at this time we do not have the date of the regulatory decree—the questions we are asking are the following: when will the regulatory decree be completed and published? When will the FCT money be transferred to universities and polytechnics be able to fill the competitions and open them up, because we know that some institutions have serious problems with the availability of funding, which will not allow them to complete the competitions? How will the problems of FCT researchers solve, which represent an installed scientific capacity that the country cannot afford to lose? How will you solve the problems of pockets whose bags have ended or are ending in critical situations, like when they reach the time limit? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u13	To reply, Mr. Minister for Science, Technology and Higher Education has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u14	Mr President, Mrs Margarida Mano, it is interesting to talk in this Parliament about scientific employment and science, especially looking at the recent past. Do not confuse budgets with implementation. Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u15	Oh, no! Is that what
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u16	The execution data are only one: official data released by the National Scientific and Technological Potential Survey ( IPCTN), where it can be seen that expenditure in Portugal decreased between 2010 and 2015 by around 23 % and 2016 was the first year of the return to European convergence. In 2016, official data clearly show that public expenditure increases EUR 40 million and private expenditure increases EUR 90 million after five years of consecutive reduction.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u17	Answer the questions!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u18	These are the expenditure data. These are official data. This is the reality. In fact, 2016 was the year of change in scientific development and confidence in a future that you want with more knowledge and more science. It was in this context that we presented and discussed the Stimulation Program for Scientific Employment. There is no delay, yes, there is a serious process of trade union negotiation which is required in constitutional terms. The honourable Member has forgotten a major commitment in the legislative contract: the end of the captives in higher education, which, as you know, in the period 2010 to 2015, has particularly affected the stability of higher education. Since 2016, there are no captivations in higher education.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u19	There were no contracts! Speak for 2018!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u20	There were contracts! As you know, in the context of scientific development, for example, unpublished employment in Portugal was developed in the context of political education. in the last six months, 400 contracts were made in political education and today a total of 800 places are available.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u21	But have you paid or not? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u22	Mr. Luís Monteiro, I thank you for your questions and I would like to highlight one aspect, which is clear: the strategy is only one, the strategy of confidence in science, a commitment in knowledge and science. That is why we have worked with the institutions and, above all, with the unions. And the regulatory decree, which will comply with the terms of the law, of course after a union negotiation, complex, vast, was widely discussed. Of course, you may have the information at the various trade union centres about what has been the process developed in recent months so that we can achieve an environment of confidence and certainly more science in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u23	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u24	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, Mr. Members: We have already lost count in this Parliament and in the various interviews, of the times that the government has announced that it is combating precariousness in higher education and science. Sometimes it says that it is 3000 contracts up to 2018, sometimes it is 5000 contracts up to the end of the Legislature. The fact is that, according to the data provided by the Ministry itself to the Parliamentary Group of the CDS, in response to a parliamentary question at this time there is only — I will not say zero, but practically... — 16 contractual cases completed. Now, for 5000 there are 4984 missing, Minister! We are far from being able to say that we are solving precariousness in higher education. In any case, I would also like to talk about the recent, even recent, Minister. Now, Parliament re-appreciated Decree-Law No 57 / 2016 of 20 July. And since then, what has happened? It happened that on or about 28 October, we knew that the negotiation process, conducted to good port, had been completed with regard to the regulation of this decree, and that had resulted in three months between the work done in this Parliament and the work that would be done by the Ministry. Significantly two months later — today — this regulation is not yet published and, as you know, the first contracting window ends on 31 December, which means that, in the recent past, six months of lost responsibility for this government, the same government that says, as stated at the outset, that it is combating precariousness in higher education. By now, I also tell you that the truth is that because of this decree-law, as I was going to replace scholarships by contracts, this year, 2017, will be the first year in which there is no opening of post-doctoral scholarships and, therefore, what results is an empty set of replies by the government, that government that said it was combating precariousness. Therefore, the doubt that remains in the CDS Parliamentary Group, which seems to me not only shared by this Parliament but, above all, by the direct visas that are protected by its policy, so that I would combat precariousness, is that, after all, this government gives the lie for not saying, and this is another year in which it will not comply with its word. It is therefore left to us to know whether, within your Government, the Minister has political power to carry out his own ideas. It is because Mr Minister protects the sector, Mr Minister has brought out a law, Mr Minister has to guarantee the conditions for it to happen, in fact, and cannot continue to take refuge in any excuse, whether it is good negotiations with the unions, whether it is a timeless process, whatever it is, in order not to give an answer to the people who are covered by this decree. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u25	Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We are debating scientific employment today, a question to which the PS has devoted constant attention and attention. This is a good time to discuss scientific employment. Today we know that 2016 was a year of turning: we reverse the trend of declining R & D spending, which had declined since 2010 and increased again in 2016. We have resumed convergence with Europe, with a policy to strengthen public investment that is necessary to pull private investment, as is actually happening. From 2015 to 2016, R & D expenditure increased by 5 % more than the relative increase in GDP, increased the weight of researchers in the active population, and the recruitment of researchers by companies grew by 6 % — a trend associated with the rise in the value scale of company production. However, the development of science cannot be isolated from the investment that the country makes in higher education. It is therefore important to record the significant increase in the number of students in higher education this year, with emphasis on political higher education, with the number of students placed in polytechnics of regions with lower population density to increase 20 %. We are therefore going through a moment of dynamism and expansion of higher education and science, but this can only be done by meeting the people who give body to this work. That is why we appreciate the strategic vision and action of the government, which has taken decisive initiatives to combat precariousness in higher education and science. Of course, with the diploma of the transitional regime for the polytechnic higher education teachers who advance in their qualification process, doctorate, that which has been improved here in Parliament, and which has already enabled the integration into the polytechnic of about 400 teachers, who have completed the doctorate, and that will allow the other 400 to be integrated when they finish their doctorate. It cannot be said that this is little in the fight against precariousness. Another decisive initiative of the Government to combat precariousness in the science and higher education system was the diploma of scientific employment, designed to end false scholarships and to contract, with all the rights of contracts, scientific workers, contracts with real and specifically regulated prospects for access to a career. The degree of scientific employment has also been assessed here in Parliament. It was a long process, but it had good results, because the regime was improved by the parliamentary majority. With this scheme, we can also increase the volume, increase the intensity of the investment by investigator, increase the remuneration so far taken. And that increase in investment intensity is a good news. On the basis of government diplomas, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group actively participated in the parliamentary work that improved these regimes, contrary to others, is the case with the PSD, which did not present any proposal and only sailed in sight, and merely opportunistically, to see which side the wind was blowing in such important matters. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u27	He's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u28	There is a lack of regulation on the degree of scientific employment, which will be for days, and which has taken time, as has always been the case involving trade union negotiations.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u29	Never enough!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u30	But it seems that this negotiation has yielded results, and we welcome that fact. It is a breath effort that the country is doing and that will mark this legislation as the Legislative of the decisive turn also in the fight against the precariousness of scientific employment. It is important here to remember that the government's strategy is to institutionalize this fight against precariousness. It is not only about transforming false individual scholarships into individual contracts, but also about changing the strategy of institutions, which cannot view precariousness as a management facility, because precariousness is also bad for institutions. Precautionaryness kills institutions because it robs them of their vision of the future. And this is being done with the new rules for the evaluation of research units, which value the promotion of scientific employment, and with the scientific employment plans of the institutions, instruments to promote the abandonment of the paradigm of precariousness and to root in institutional strategies the quality of scientific employment as part of its conditions of success. All the work that matters takes longer than we wish. But as far as scientific employment is concerned, this government and this parliamentary majority have taken significant steps, which are being implemented and which allow us to continue to do what is to be done by decent work in science as well. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u31	Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u32	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: The great fallacy of government speech in this area is that it promises exactly what it does not want to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u34	It is not worth asking the institutions to comply with the decree — and they need to comply — if the government does not do its housework in a timely manner. If he does not, it is not worth coming here, as usual, to require institutions to comply with what is not yet regulated. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] Therefore, confidence in science is in ensuring that the law is met and that the government is not waiting, but it does happen. And, as I said, it is common in the Socialist Party's narrative to say that it is necessary to change the logic of functioning of institutions that do not do their work, particularly in combating precariousness. And, in this case, looking also at a very recent past, it has not passed yet a month when the Block of the Left presented, at the state budget, two significant changes, plunged by the Socialist Party, the Social Democratic Party and the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u35	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u36	These were legislative changes to the law of the evaluation of the institutions, which set as parameters of assessment the precariousness and greater investment in social action.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u37	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u38	We cannot come here to ask for a change in the logic of the functioning of higher education institutions when they are the PS, PSD and CDS themselves, which, when we bring here to the discussion proposals that will force and positively pressure institutions to fight precariousness, lead to these same proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u40	Therefore, Mr Porfirio Silva of the Socialist Party, it is not worth continuing with a round speech, because we have already tabled here, in this legislature, proposals for amendment to the RJIES (the legal regime of higher education institutions) and the Socialist Party has led them.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u41	Well!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u42	As part of the discussion of the State budget, we presented changes in the framework of the law of evaluation of institutions and the PS, the PSD and the CDS led them by package. Therefore, it is not worth continuing with the discourse that institutions need to be held accountable. If PS, PSD and CDS want to hold institutions accountable they have a very easy way to do it: approve the Left Block proposals and we will certainly have a fight against the most effective precariousness. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u43	For a new intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u44	Mr President, I have listened carefully to Mr Porfirio Silva, who referred part of the responsibility, or at least has co-responsibility, to the institutions for the fulfilment of Decree-Law No 57 / 2016. Moreover, he also did so in an interview to the Newspaper on 30 October, in which he said: "Of course, there is no clear involvement and co-responsibility of the institutions and their leaders to ensure that all proceedings are properly opened within the current legal context". I was doing housework—not too complicated, it was enough to go to Google—and in my research on open contracts I verified that there are at least two associated laboratories that have already opened several contests, including the IBM (Instituto de Biologia Molecular e Cellular ) and the IPATIMUP (Instituto de Pathologia e Immunologia Molecular da Universidade do Porto ). What happens is that they are themselves financing them, diverting own revenue funds on account of the funding to come from the FCT, but frankly it is not well known when. So I wonder if the responsibility will be of the institutions, which are complying with the law, but they are not being given the means. But Mr Minister, in the same interview, says: "It is not done and it does not promote scientific employment without being with the institutions themselves, and I am sure that the institutions will respond very positively to the stimuli that are now given." Mr Minister, the stimuli I have read in the news are that they will not be paid what is due them and that higher education institutions at the moment, although they have signed legislative contracts to have such financing stability, have a deficit of 13 million that sometimes one government member says will be paid and, sometimes, another government member says that it may not be paid. It turns out that there is a meeting in which it says that it may be paid in 2018 on the basis of an audit when that would be guaranteed by contract. Therefore, I do not know whether the institutions at the moment can actually be used as an alibi for non-compliance with what is a law that originally originated in the government. And I am telling you again, honestly, that the fundamental concern I have is with the postdoc pockets themselves, to whom legal expectations have been created for the replacement of scholarships by contract. Moreover, the CDS did not favour the final text on Decree-Law No 57 / 2016, but abstained, fearing that there were budgetary problems in compliance and not wanting to be responsible for it. Once again, Mr Minister, who has guarded the sector and who has launched this diploma, has to give guarantees here today how it will resolve this matter in good time. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u45	Mr Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u46	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister : The truth is that trade union negotiations have already taken place, but since the original version of the decree itself and after the law itself, it has already been known that there would be a need for regulation. This was an issue that should already be cautious, and therefore the Government cannot shield itself from this in order to safeguard the resolution of the problem. The challenge facing the CFP here is to answer the very concrete questions that the stockholders have been asking on this issue of scientific employment. The regulation, Mr. Porfirio Silva and the Minister would also be for days. But, then, when exactly? It is that, if we speak in terms of days, more than 100 working days have passed in which this process is being extended. So, when exactly? This situation cannot continue and the hope given to the pockets, the struggle that has been developed by these pockets cannot be this hope thwarted by lack of action, for longer periods that are being held, for as long as it takes. The Government must give effect to what has been decided, particularly in the Assembly of the Republic. This is the answer the PCP demands.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u47	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u48	What is the concrete answer? We need concrete answers. We also need another concrete answer, Mr Minister. As soon as we talked about the issue of the guidelines that would be given so that the pockets that were already missing were not damaged, we wanted to realize, exactly, how this will be done, how this mechanism will be implemented, how it can be guaranteed that there will not be a new waiting period for these pockets, so that those who then extravagant the maximum duration allowed by the EBI and by the Stock Exchange Rules will not, too, be excluded from this process of access to contracts. These are fundamental issues. Some of these people are here to attend the session, many others are out there listening to us. These people can't stay forever in suspense without knowing what's going to happen to their lives, without imagining how this will happen. They cannot be expected that what was planned, through the Assembly of the Republic, because of the expectations that have been created to them — and quite legitimately have them! — be left without a clear reply from the Government. Therefore, the CFP requires that this answer be given, that everything be resolved, that there be no doubt and that all of them be clarified. In addition, in my initial speech, Mr Minister, I do not know if you will yet have the opportunity to answer, I have put a number of other questions which were important to be answered, particularly as regards the prospect that newly-doctoral people should have, because they do not know what they are going to do in the middle of this, since they no longer have any doctoral programmes, not knowing where they are going to turn. The most qualified researchers, who already have more experience, do not know what to do either. We are talking here in a car that is becoming increasingly epic in terms of the precariousness and disorientation of these people. It is therefore necessary to find an objective line of intervention by the Government in order to solve this fundamental problem of precariousness, and in particular all the issues arising from the decree-law of scientific employment, which has been justly changed by Parliamentary assessment for the better. What, then, is the Government's answer on this subject in particular? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u49	For an intervention, Mr. Minister for Science, Technology and Higher Education has the floor, which benefits from two minutes given by the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u50	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Make it clear that there is no breach of Law No 57 / 2017. There is indeed an unpublished commitment by the Government under this legislation to ensure conditions of scientific employment. It is to think of Portuguese, to think of researchers in particular, that we have addressed this matter in a pragmatic way and that we are working in Portugal for a new legal regime. It was the government that took the lead, and we will assume it within the term of the legislature. The 2018 Budget is clear about the financial conditions, and therefore it is clear that there is no breach of Law No 57 / 2017. Obviously the regulation required by this law can only be made in a manner consistent with the constitutional obligations of a trade union negotiation process, which, as you know, and I repeat, was concluded last Thursday after two rounds of negotiations with eight different trade unions, after the necessary discussions within the government. So in the next few days, we will certainly have the necessary regulation. And let us not forget that the Law is clear as to the end of the opening of competitions until 2018. Now let us be clear: when the government chose to open the process of scientific employment it knew it was a difficult issue in financial and economic terms and in terms of internal resistance to institutions. So the process wasn't easy nor will it be easy, but we're here to work with the researchers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u51	To conclude the debate, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In conclusion, what the CFP looks forward to, very honestly, is that the debate that today can contribute to objectively unlocking, as quickly as possible, the situation that is created in relation to the diploma of scientific employment. And as soon as possible it was already yesterday, Mr Minister, but we hope that there will indeed be a quick and urgent exit to the problems that have been raised. Another appeal that we must not forget is that the issue of the regulation of remuneration levels is therefore resolved as quickly as possible but also that of the necessary safeguard so that all the pockets which have met conditions to be covered by the transitional standard are not forgotten...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u53	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u54	... do not stay out and continue to have an exit for the one who is your work, your dignity and the important contribution, so qualified and so relevant to our country. We cannot talk about valuing the country, technically and scientifically, in innovation and in everything and something else without precisely counting on these people.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u55	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u56	This is, therefore, the challenge we have left here today, that this situation is solved as quickly as possible. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u57	I would ask Secretary Emília Santos to report to us on diplomas which, in the meantime, have entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, the projects of lein.o 689 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Qualification of the murder crime committed in connection with a dating relationship ( 45. the amendment to the Penal Code ( CDS-PP ), 690 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the Criminal Code, making the murder in context of violence in qualified homicide ( BE), 691 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the Penal Code, making public crime the aggressions to journalists in the performance of their duties or because of them ( BE), 692 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Done at 45. the amendment to the Penal Code, strengthening the legal-penal protection of journalists in the exercise of functions ( PS ), 693 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves measures to promote equal pay for men and women by equal or equal value ( NAP ), 694 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amendment to the Legal System of Parliamentary Investigations ( PSD ) and 695 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines the end of use of animals in circuses ( NAP ), which falls to 12. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau, and were also admitted, draft resolutions 1170 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the counting of all time of service for the purpose of remunerative valuation resulting from career progression ( CFP ), 1171 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the valuation of non-public school workers ( CFP ), 1172 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — It proposes measures to combat the precariousness and effective recruitment of specialists in public school ( PCP ), 1173/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the establishment of recruitment groups corresponding to the teaching functions of specialized technicians ( PCP ), 1174 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government improve the recruitment and mobility scheme for pre-school and elementary and secondary education teachers ( BE ), 1175 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Assessment of the consequences of the merger process of public administration careers in schools ( BE ), 1176 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Valuation and dignity of the specialized technicians of public schools ( BE ), 1177 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to promote equal pay for men and women by equal or equal value ( NAP ), 1178 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote an assessment of the contractual responsibilities underlying the granting in force between the State and the CTT ( PS ), 1179 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Combating contractual precariousness of specialists in public school ( The Greens ), 1180 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Counting of all service time for career progression ( The Greens ), 1181 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Aim to promote equal pay between women and men ( The Greens ), 1182 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Study for the construction of a link branch of the East Line ( Portalegre station ) to the industrial area of Portalegre ( Os Verdes ), which falls to 6. the Commission, and 1183 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Availability by the National Pension Centre for the discriminated receipt of the pension with an indication of the values which compose it, on a date prior to the date of receipt ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President. [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u59	Mrs. Secretary Emília Santos, a special thank you for this reading marathon. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are moving to the second item on today's agenda, which is made up of political statements. The first political declaration is for the PSD Parliamentary Group. To that end, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The events of the last few days on the Rare Association require strong political power in the preservation and strengthening of the social sector and accountability by whom, once again, has failed in the essential role of the State. They also demand that there be no political use of this case to discredit the good ideas or the best social institutions. These, the social institutions, play a remarkable, repeatable, important role in supporting those who need it most.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u62	They are close to people and therefore they are the best and most effective ones to respond to the most fragile, the most vulnerable. And so it must be! [[PSD applause.]] And that must continue to be the case! A bad example of management, pre-power or abuse of power cannot contaminate an entire sector that provides the country and the most vulnerable people one of the most relevant services of volunteering and social solidarity. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the government has failed! He failed in the monitoring action that he is responsible for, after being alerted several times. And by failing to monitor it, it has failed in the face of society! The face of this failure is now Minister Vieira da Silva. And, in the face of this government failure, the Minister has made no clear!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u63	On the contrary!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u64	Therefore, this should be the time to clarify what is to be clarified, to assume responsibilities, to punish those who deserve to be punished and to reflect on what there is or not to do in order to prevent situations like this from repeated. All this, in honor of a greater value that will be preserved — the value of social solidarity institutions. [[PSD applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's start with what is to be clarified. And what is most important is to clarify this question: why is it that only now, after a commendable television report, did you have a rare inspection? Why, for months, have complaints and more complaints of irregularities been received from the Social Security Institute and the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security and no one has acted? Why has the Minister himself now only taken a decision, when he has long been aware of these complaints, whose signatories have not even received an answer? Why did social security supervision fail in this case? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the state has a duty to monitor! And, in the face of a complaint of irregularities, a repeated complaint and, above all, concerning an institution to which the Minister was previously linked, there is a need for firmness, speed and transparency in the action.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u65	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u66	Unfortunately, that's not what we saw! Instead of speeding up, you chose to "let go"! Instead of transparency, there was such a serious omission that, unless properly explained, it could well be confused with conviviality.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u67	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u68	There is therefore much to be clarified, but there are also now responsibilities to be assumed. Let us therefore hope that the inspection now ordered does not drag indefinitely. Let us hope that the Portuguese have good explanations in good time and not only when everything is in the field of forgetting, because the longer the time passes, the greater the risk of weakening these institutions. This is therefore the moment when the Minister must assume responsibility: either he wants to strengthen these institutions or he wants to throw a cloak of distrust over the sector. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u69	Let us also hope that there will be courage for heavy hands in relation to those who have predicted, whether by action or by omission. Inertia, deresponsibility, inability and abuse of power cannot make their way! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u70	We also hope that, in the meantime, an interim, competent and independent direction will be appointed to manage the institution, because the children and young people in that house cannot be victims of the irresponsibility of those who have so far directed it. Finally, it sends the common sense which is reflected in what, eventually, will change in order to strengthen supervision and prevention, as far as possible, to avoid these situations. As a responsible party that we are, we are open, as we have always been, for this reflection, but with two special calls of attention: first, that there is no temptation to legislate hot, over events and with emotion to the flower of the skin—we know that the excess of volunteerism usually leads to demagogy and precipitation; second, that there is no temptation to, on the pretext of a bad example, whether to discredit or destroy thousands of excellent examples of social solidarity that exist throughout the country. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What is at stake here is not the social sector or the social economy, what is at stake here is just, and just, a bad example. But bad examples can, unfortunately, exist everywhere, whether in the public sector or in the private or social sector. The important thing, now, is to act without contemplation, either in the state or out of it, prays to whoever hurts! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u71	Mrs. Deputy, four Members have signed up. Members to make requests for clarification and, according to their bench, will respond to groups of two. First of all, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u72	Mr President, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, I would like to congratulate you on bringing up such a current and timely subject for discussion. They are events that the country has witnessed truly surprised, in the face of a case that can not very rarely be accepted that happens. It can never happen! Such situations are strange to a democratic rule of law and cannot, under any circumstances, occur. So now, even for a culture of democratic responsibility, it is necessary to clarify thoroughly everything that has happened, whether through investigations, investigations or audits, it is necessary to make use of all the mechanisms that the law allows to clarify but also to carry out the responsibilities. in the immediate future, it is also necessary to ensure that this case does not weaken the services provided to users. If we make the accounts, we conclude that the public funding allocated to this institution has been EUR 5 million over the past five years, i.e. an average of EUR 1 million per year which the State has given to the very few countries. Now, if we are talking about public money, it is first of all necessary to ensure that this public money is intended to have exactly the objectives that motivated or justified the allocation of these funds. This is, for us, the key issue. And we agree, Mrs Deputies, that more rigorous and more present supervision is in fact required to prevent these situations from repeating themselves until it is up to the State to exercise the powers of inspection, audit and supervision to private institutions of social solidarity ( IPSS ). Therefore, what is required is that the State effectively exercise these powers and do not wait for the press to denounce these cases. But, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, The Greens believe that this case should also lead us to question how far and to what extent this dossier, to shake the State's responsibilities for third parties, is the best way to provide public services to citizens. Therefore, I ask whether or not the PSD is available to rethink the relationship, or the model of relationship between the State and private institutions of social solidarity. In conclusion, Mrs Deputies, I would like to ask you another question: when you mentioned that this case should not be a cause for political use, was you speaking seriously or were you speaking on a mental basis?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u73	You have the floor, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, to request clarifications, Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u74	Mr President, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes has come here to do the only thing the PSD can do right now, which is the policy of the case!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u75	Exactly! [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u76	And he wants to convince us that this apple, in particular, is rotten — this apple! — as if the rest of the basket was completely immaculate! Let me tell you, Mrs. Member, that the basket is not immaculate. in the last three years 1625 surveillance actions were carried out to IPSS ; of these 1625 actions, 1710 counter-ordinational cars and 61 criminal illegals were lifted. Therefore, Mrs. Member, the apple basket is not immaculate! The problem is certainly not in all IPSSs, whose work is worthy and have a role in Portuguese society. The problem is in the program on the right for the role of IPSS... [[That's it!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u77	...to replace the social state. That's the problem. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[PSD protests.]] The problem is in the view of charity that governed the right program for the social state during the greatest crisis that this country has seen, with the increase of child poverty and the increase of poverty in the elderly. Its government was able to reduce 72,000 people in access to the solidarity complement for the elderly (CSI) and 200 000 people in access to social income for inclusion (RSI) when poverty increased! But now more than 100 000 people have turned to the Food Bank. "Soup of the poor" is your policy... [[All right!]] [[Protests by PSD Member Amadeu Soares Alberaria.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u78	... and it is the policy of PSD and CDS in combating poverty in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The gentlemen. Members, when they were part of the government, did not want to pay a benefit that was at most EUR 374 per family, in this case in RSI — a benefit that was emancipated, which had responsibilities of integration — but agreed to replace it by the payment of EUR 600 to an IPSS to give meals to that same family. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is hundreds of millions of euros that the State delivers to these IPSSs.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u79	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u80	I shall finish, Mr President, by telling the honourable Member that I have never seen the PSD concerned about the homes of the elderly who put the poorest at the end of the line because they have no money to pay. I've never seen the PSD worried about the creches that favored...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u81	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u82	...the children of people with more resources. By the way, and with this ending, if you are so concerned with the surveillance, explain to this House why in 2014 your government has changed the law...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u83	Mrs. Deputy, you really have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u84	... to exempt the previous IPSS accounts from the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security ( MTSSS ). [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u85	You have the floor to answer these first two requests for clarification, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u86	Mr President, I begin by thanking the questions put to me by Mr José Luís Ferreira and Mrs Mariana Mortágua who, essentially, were similar and, I must say, what I was afraid of is actually happening,... [[All right!]] [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u87	...which is the political use of a case for you to make an ideological crusade against social institutions. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from BE and The Greens.]] Mrs. Members, this bench does not accept lessons on how the State should deal with social institutions. [[Green Protests.]] You know why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? Because it was this bench that, together with the CDS-PP bench and the government, managed to save the social state. [[PSD applause.]] And you know with the help of whom, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? With the help of social institutions. Therefore, if you do not believe in social institutions, we believe! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u88	And, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is not a question of saying: 'This is a rotten apple'. Don't! We cannot confuse the non-compliances and irregularities of someone who directs the institution with the activity developed by that institution. [[All right!]] [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u89	Learn!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u90	You want to question all the work being done by the social institutions and, in particular, by this social institution. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is such your despair to defend this failure of the government once again that you are not ashamed to question this important role that social institutions develop, for people and for society. [[Congrats from the PSD and the CDS-PP Member João Pinho de Almeida.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u91	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u92	Mr President, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, in her political statement, brought the situation with regard to the very rare association and, of course, to be confirmed, this situation is in fact unacceptable and requires that all the circumstances involved in what happened with this association be resolved, regardless of the responsibilities that must be met, who is the one to whom it is and to whom it should be given. Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, I wonder if the PSD is available for this discharge of responsibilities to be done, effectively, even to the latest consequences, even though this implies establishing responsibilities of the previous government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u93	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u94	...with regard to compliance with the rules... [[PSD laughter.]] ...and monitoring the use of public money, either by IPSS or by whoever. [[Congratulations from BE.]] But, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, there is another question I would like to ask you: the main concern of the CFP... [[PSD protests.]] ... has to do with the rights of citizens... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mr. President, I may not be able to make the request for clarification...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u95	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for letting Mr João Oliveira proceed with your request for clarification. Please continue, Mr. João Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u96	The PSD and CDS-PP, when they ordered, were harmful to people. Today they're making noise! We prefer that they keep making noise without harming people. [[PCP applause.]] Madam Member, for the CFP, the main concern is the rights of citizens. If there are no longer IPSSs today, citizens can no longer have access to health care, they can not fail to have their rights respected and this puts the question in the exact terms in which it has to be put: the best way to defend the rights of citizens, in this case, access to health care and the social support they need, is to guarantee the defence of public services. The defence of the SNS, the quality of public services and social support must be the primary responsibility of the State and it cannot be, as you did, transferred to others, either through business or by any other rule. And this, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, puts the issue at the centre, where it must be: the IPSS must play a complementary role to that of the State. The State cannot be held responsible for ensuring that users of these institutions have the support and rights respected and that workers of these institutions have working conditions, because the work they provide is of great value in providing care to people with disabilities, with chronic illness or whatever. The question I have to raise, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, is whether the PSD has already withdrawn the conclusions, which it has to withdraw from what it has done for four years in the previous government to de-responsibility of the State and to transfer to others the responsibilities that the State should assume, in particular with regard to IPSS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u97	Let's see what's going on in your authorities!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u98	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u99	We realized what was the goal that you had in mind with the destruction of public services and the privatization of business...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u100	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u101	... in relation to social rights. We continue to defend that the progress and development of the country...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u102	Please conclude, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u103	... is dependent on the quality of public services and not on the transformation into business of what social rights are. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u104	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs. Idália Serra.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u105	Mr President, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, thank you for bringing this issue, I greet you, because it is a subject that has shocked us all in recent days. I am not surprised at the fact that you have redirected the speech you held yesterday, and you did well to do so, because you did not recognize the work they are doing in the country that we were seeing as being missing, coming from that side. [[All right!]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u106	But don't get excited! Let me do my speech, don't get too excited. If you were not offended, I would say that it is a little intellectually dishonest for you to come to say that complaints have been filed in the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security and that nothing has been done, because you know that complaints have been filed in March, June and July and that on 31 July an audit process has been opened.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u107	And isn't it little?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u108	And the honourable Member knows, too... [[Oh, you know what?Oh, my ……]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u109	... you know, because you have this knowledge — that these same complaints, which were made by the former treasurer, presented administrative, procedural and financial discrepancies, and it was in this context that the audit procedure was opened. After these events came to the public in recent days, an immediate process was opened at the General Inspection of the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security (IGMTSS ), but Mrs Clara Marques Mendes points out that the government has failed. [[All right.]] [[You failed! You failed!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u110	O honourable Member, this is a demagogy...! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member is trying to charge the Socialist Party with something she cannot. The fact is that it is the responsibility of the management! This, which you are trying to do, is the same as we are now saying, for example, that, as the President of the Rarissimas has been making a hug to PSD Members at the opening of seats in the Metropolitan Area of Lisbon (AML), in particular in Odivelas,... [[PSD protests.]] ...the blame is on the PSD! That would be a complete nonsense! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] That was a complete nonsense! He was intellectually dishonest. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u111	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u112	I will finish, Mr. President. Madam Member, we have called on the Minister to Parliament to provide clarification and to assume responsibility and to hold responsible those responsible. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u113	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr. João Almeida.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u114	Mr President, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, I welcome you for having brought this issue and for having brought it seriously and calmly, which unfortunately was not the tone that followed the other debate. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u115	This question is serious and must be treated as a matter which, from a party point of view, brings different ideological views. It is very useful for some political forces to try to generalize what is at stake here in order to develop a whole theory against the third sector and against the role of these institutions in Portuguese society. We want the clearance of responsibilities, but we don't subscribe to this ideological drift... [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u116	That's the talking of the prisoner ass!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u117	... that disrespects those who have years and years of service to those who have the greatest difficulties in this country and who have benefited from this support often without the State being able to support these initiatives. [[Supported!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u118	That is why, when situations of irregularity appear, it is necessary to know how to clear up the responsibilities and facts and to take the consequences from there.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u119	That is why we called Mr Minister here to explain.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u120	So from the very first moment, the CDS said that this was needed, and the honourable Member also said it here. [[Protests by PS Member Idália Salvador Serrão.]] But neither do we embark on a speech that everything runs out there. Public authorities also have responsibilities and it is therefore important to say what is evident to us. The clarifications that Mr. Minister for Labour, Solidarity and Social Security gave are not enough...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u121	That's why we called him here!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u122	...to find out whether the facts and responsibilities within the framework of the guardianship and the government have been properly exercised. It is our mission, here in Parliament, to know exactly...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u123	That's why we called him here!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u124	...if the government did, or did not, everything that had to be done.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u125	That's why we called Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u126	When did the government, when did the public authorities know that these irregularities existed? Who knew at every moment? What procedures is that you adopted according to the information... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u127	I could have called Mr. Minister before! That's why we called Mr. Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u128	Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, if this is as quiet as the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen want it to happen, they don't need to be screaming while I'm saying this. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u129	If this is so simple, the questions are being asked by whom you have to ask...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u130	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u131	...and the answers will be given with the same serenity by whom you have to give. Finally, Mr President, I would like to ask you, whether or not you think that, for many questions, there is still no answer and that only when the government is fully transparent can you safeguard the third sector, all these institutions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u132	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u133	...not involving them in a confusion that at the end of the day is not their responsibility but a government that cannot be sufficiently transparent? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u134	You now have the floor to answer these three requests for clarification, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u135	Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking you for the questions that have been put to me. Deputies João Oliveira, Idália Serra and João Almeida. Mr João Oliveira starts by questioning the PSD whether it is available to see all these facts clarified. The honourable Member must be distracted, because the PSD was the first to question the Minister about precisely this situation. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u136	Soon on Monday morning, we had the opportunity to question, through a question addressed to the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, in order to clarify this situation. So we were the first to worry about this situation. And the honourable Member didn't hear what I said about the rostrum either. I said in this House, to the honourable Member and to all Portuguese, that the PSD wants to see all these issues clarified and I also said that on all matters, I pray to whoever hurts, responsibilities must be assigned to it. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u137	This is responsibility; irresponsibility is what you do; it is that you constantly question the role of social institutions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u138	Mr Deputy, I say more to you: calling 'business' to work done by the social institutions is regrettable, Mr Deputy. It's a shame, and I'll stay here! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] Mrs Idália Serrão starts by saying, in fact, that we do not recognize the role of institutions of social solidarity, referring to our speech yesterday. Mrs. Deputy didn't make a mistake in the direction? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u139	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u140	She would probably be referring to her coalition partners! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u141	No, no, he was right there!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u142	Madam Member, at no time have we called into question that role. In fact, we have brought this issue to debate precisely because we are concerned that this case will contaminate the other social institutions. [[Protests by PS Member Idália Salvador Serrão.]] Mrs. Member, be calm, don't be nervous...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u143	I'm so calm!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u144	... because this matter deserves, on our part, all the tranquility and all the seriousness so that people who benefit from the support of these institutions and, in the particular case, of this institution are not affected. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u145	They forgot!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u146	The honourable Member also pointed out that there was or had been an audit as a result of the complaints.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u147	It's in progress! Mrs. Deputy knows!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u148	Mrs. Member, I don't know...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u149	You know, you know!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u150	No one knows the results of this audit. If, indeed, there was an audit, Mrs. Member, there are answers to give, there must be conclusions, and these conclusions no one knows, no one knows, nor do you know what has been done.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u151	If so, tell me what the conclusions were!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u152	Madam Member, if there had been an audit, then why did the Minister announce that he was going to take a look at it now?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u153	Now! [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u154	The honourable Member does not distinguish an audit from an audit.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u155	Therefore, if there was an audit, then it is appropriate to explain to the Portuguese why it is necessary that there should now be a review. [[Protests by PS Member Idália Salvador Serrão.]] Mrs. Deputy, on the other hand, I'm not going to comment, we're talking.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u156	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u157	Mr. João Almeida, that was indeed our objective in bringing this matter here, because, in fact, our concern is with the social institutions. In other words, the relationship that we believe must exist between the State and the social institutions is that already exists: a relationship of cooperation, where social institutions come closer, and where the State often cannot reach. Therefore, this important role they play can never be called into question. I would therefore like to thank you for raising this question. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u158	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u159	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u160	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u161	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u162	Mr President, a few minutes ago, in the request for clarification to the PSD Member Clara Marques Mendes, the Socialist Party Member announced to the House that the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security will have received a complaint in January, another in March, another in June, July... on the merits, three or four complaints...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u163	Don't! It was March, June and July!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u164	Mr President, I am grateful that it is indeed an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u165	Mr President, it is an appeal to the Bureau, but if I do not expose the logic of reasoning, Mr President will not really understand.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u166	That was exactly the case, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u167	So, Mr President, what I mean is that the honourable Member has just announced that there have been at least three or four complaints to the Ministry of Protection. But it went further and also announced in Parliament that there was an audit ordered by the guardianship of the institution...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u168	If you want an audit, get it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u169	Mr President, I would like to thank you for making the request to the Bureau without further arguments. We fully understand what the context is!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u170	Mr President, I would like to finish... I asked you now to have the same desire to create conditions that you had recently so that the left parties could speak so that I could speak, if they would allow me. Nothing else! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u171	This is abuse! No one else does this!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u172	Mr President, what I would like to ask, through the Bureau, is that the results of an audit should be requested from the Ministry of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security, which is evidently five months old. And it would be important that the whole Parliament, and not just a few benches,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u173	... had knowledge of the findings of the audit that the Socialist Party announced here. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u174	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u175	I assume that for the same purpose, Mrs...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u176	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u177	I would ask you even to make an appeal to the Bureau, Mrs Deputie.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u178	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u179	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u180	Mr President, it is only to announce that, since the Socialist Party has already asked the Minister to come here, if the Commission marks the coming of the Minister by tomorrow, the Ministers. Members may be clarified at that time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u181	It's clear. For the second political statement this afternoon, Mrs Helena Roseta has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u182	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members, present public: Today is the International Day of Human Rights. The right to housing, which is one of them, is enshrined in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic since 1976, but we all know that serious deficiencies persist. I'm only going to give three indicators. First indicator: more than one third of Portuguese families are overburdened with housing costs, i.e. spending on housing more than 40 % of their income. Second indicator: 26 591 families are identified requiring urgent resettlement according to the national survey recommended by the Assembly of the Republic. The answers from 136 municipalities are still missing. Third indicator, less known: 28 % of Portuguese dwellings in 2015 had infiltrations on the roof, wet walls and powder boxes. If there are doctors in the room, they know exactly what this means in terms of the health of the populations. The housing has been out of the political agenda. in the Assembly of the Republic, only in this term is that the word « housing» appeared in the name of a parliamentary committee and only in July this year was created the Secretary of State of the Housing. The National Habitat Strategy, approved by the previous government, is only now beginning to bear some fruit, but there were legislative measures in the previous government with effects opposed to those announced, as was the case with the liberalisation of incomes in 2012, which not only promoted the increase in leases as, on the contrary, contributed to the increase in prices. in the last autonomous elections, housing was at the center of attention. On 4 October, the Government approved the new generation of housing policies, which is in public consultation, but the results are slow, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. We need much more than we have right now on the ground. There's a lot of way to walk. Mrs. Members, we are witnessing the accelerated growth of a speculative bubble in the housing market in Portugal. The pace of rising prices, especially in Lisbon and Porto, is dizzying. Portugal is already the OECD country where housing prices rise. The signs are all in sight, the alerts are being made, the risks are enormous. There is no relationship between the prices that are requested, either in the sale or in the lease, and the quality of the housing. The phenomenon is aggravated by the rapid blooming of local accommodation, combined with increased tourism. Family income does not accompany this increase in prices. There are more and more people without money who arrive to pay for what is asked. There has not been enough public investment in housing for deprived families. For many years, PER (Special Programme for Realisation) has not had any money in the State Budget and PROHABITA (Financing Programme for Access to Housing), as is everyone's knowledge. As a result of all this, shortages are rising faster than answers. The state and the municipalities are unable to comply with the constitutional imperative of adopting a income policy compatible with family incomes. from the data provided by IHRU (Instituto da Habitação e da Rehabilição Urbana), between 1987 and 2011, 73 % of State resources were consumed in subsidised interest, compared to 14 % for reallocation, 8 % for lease and only 2 % for direct state promotion. There is a complete distortion in these public investments. I have no data on the investment of municipalities, but this responsibility, in the Constitution is clear, is of the state and the municipalities, not only of the municipalities. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I applaud and applaud with the PS Parliamentary Group the general lines of the new generation of housing policies. I welcome, above all, the new attitude of openness and dialogue with citizens and their associations, which marks the tone of the new Secretary of State and the new President of IHRU. In fact, the lack of dialogue was one of the most heard criticisms when we spoke to the neighborhoods and their associations. Listening to the citizens, expressing their concerns, alerting Parliament and the Government to the measures they impose was also one of the contributions that 11 are making. the Committee of the Assembly of the Republic has given this mandate. I will cite only one example, much talked about in the media, and grave: the neighborhood Vale de Chícharos, also known as Jamaica, in the Seixal. After listening to the association of residents and visiting the neighborhood, 11. the Commission has warned the Secretary of State, who in dialogue with the municipality is already promoting the re-housing of families at greater risk than resided in unsafe buildings. That is how we understand the role of Members: beyond all our differences, which are many, we cannot fail to agree on what is urgent, many of them humanitarian. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has sought to promote this dialogue with citizens, especially in hearings with neighbourhoods, including social districts and self-construction districts. But the housing policy, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it has to be a policy for everyone. We have to deal with the speculative bubble that's there, we're watching her. We must equip the State and the municipalities with instruments and resources to regulate the housing market, both in terms of prices and in terms of the quality of supply. We need to monitor the evolution of housing prices compared with the evolution of family wages and incomes, because, Mr. Members, if we do not make this public relationship of housing prices, which the Constitution imposes on us, we are seriously affected by the policy of returns of income that we have defended and applied and which has been put into practice by this government. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members:To poor housing or to their lack are often associated persistent conditions of poverty and school failure, family conflict, social exclusion and even racial and ethnic discrimination. Public health policies and social cohesion policies cannot continue to ignore the issue of housing. Mr. President and Mr. Members, housing in Portugal is the only social right of the Constitution that has never had a basic law. We've been through a rough program, temporary programs. Therefore, the PS Parliamentary Group will publicly present at the beginning of 2018 a draft basic housing law, in which we will reflect all the contributions we are making throughout this legislature and, in particular, this participatory process that we launched on this new generation of housing policies. But what we want, Mr President and Mr. Members, it is only that all political forces and all citizens can make their contribution. We believe that democracy needs a vigilant and active citizenship. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us make the laws that we are able to make and that improve people's lives and that these, our hope, can last. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u183	Mrs. Helena Roseta, you have four Mrs. Members registered to request clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u184	at the end, together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u185	Therefore, you have the floor to make your request for clarification, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u186	Mr President, Mrs Helena Roseta has offered us in her political statement that we welcome, especially in the initial part, a very critical analysis and view on the housing sector in Portugal. I must tell you that the PSD shares this critical view and that I am not surprised at everything. As Mrs Depute pointed out, well, the previous Government approved a National Habitat Strategy ( ENH ) for the period 2015 - 2031, which was widely debated and attended by various public bodies and various civil society entities with recognised work in the areas of housing and spatial planning. It was a strategy structured into three key pillars — urban rehabilitation, housing lease and housing qualification — consisting of 60 specific and specific actions, which also listed the competent entities and monitoring indicators. With the new government, this strategy has not been improved, it has not been revised, it has not been changed. With the new government, this strategy was simply put in the drawer. In two years, nothing significant was done in this area, Mrs. And what has been done, or is intended to be done, such as the protection of the freezing of incomes, the launch of the famous Mortagua tax, or the discussion about the future of local housing, caused instability and mistrust in the housing and urban rehabilitation sector. They were two years of government without strategy and without planning. It was two years lost that forced the government, in an attempt to choose its responsibilities, to create the Secretary of State for Housing and to move forward with the so-called « new housing strategy », which does not pass from a recapitulated strategy. But no big results are expected. It is sufficient to note, Mrs Deputy, for the State Budget for 2018, that in relation to housing, it has less money than those provided for in the budget of the City Council of Lisbon. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u187	This is an elucidative example of not going there. Don't you think so, Your Honor? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u188	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u189	Mr President, Mrs Helena Roseta, I would like to thank you for the intervention and the subject you have brought here today, that of housing, which is undoubtedly fundamental. I recall here that the honourable Member, already in May this year, in an interview she gave to a seminary, had said that, in the Ministry of the Environment, which is the Ministry that protects the issue of housing, there was very little sensitivity to this issue. Subsequently, here in this Parliament, referring to the State budget for 2018, it also stated that the funds entered in this State budget, with regard to housing, were very small. Madam Member, I fully agree with what you have said. And today, in the intervention here, he added that we need more than has been done so far and that very little has been done. Madam Member, I can no longer agree with what you just mentioned here and with what you said in the past. But then the honourable Member goes into contradiction — and that is what concerns my question — by saying, at the end of her speech, that she applauds the New Generation of Housing Policies, which has been the great joke, the great chavão of the Government in this matter, which, by giving this name to new policies we do not know, says that housing is a political priority for this government. Madam Member, I do not understand where this political priority is, I do not understand what has changed since your May interview so far, because I do not see a change, except the creation of the Secretary of State for Housing, which has so far served nothing. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u190	Mrs. Member, I am speaking to you on a particular matter, not to think that I am speaking in abstract, and I remind you of the important issue of the National Fund for the Rehabilitation of Building (FNRE), which, as you know very well, was promised that it would be operating until October 2016, and it was not. Then the government announced that it was not possible after all, but that it would be operating until June 2017. He wasn't there either. We are in December 2017 and the National Building Rehabilitation Fund has not yet come out of the paper. I therefore ask you whether these are the great policies that the Government has carried out and which you applaud. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u191	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Paula Santos.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u192	Mr President, I also welcome Mrs Helena Roseta on the subject which brought the debate today in the Assembly of the Republic, housing, and there are aspects in the diagnosis that are, in fact, true. Access to housing is a problem today felt by many and many people. The high costs with housing, the continuing housing shortages and the lifting of these same deficiencies, which was recommended to the Government by the Assembly of the Republic, is not only concluded as we have also identified a number of housing shortages, such as those of families who have to leave their homes, because they have become unemployed, because of the increase in incomes, finally, for numerous reasons that they end up not to be considered in this survey, but are housing shortages. These families eventually have the help, the hand of their relatives, but they represent housing shortages that we must bear in mind and therefore there must also be an answer for these people. And we speak of inadequate and degraded dwellings, as there are, of evictions, of families pushed to the outskirts, because they cannot continue to live where they have always lived, due to the high costs and changes we have had in our country regarding the local housing, the golden sights, the law of rent. But, Mrs Deputy, I would like to raise a very specific aspect for you, because we believe that over all these years, and through the various governments of the PS, the PSD and the CDS, the State has been absent from direct intervention in promoting access to housing. We look at the document that the Government has put into public discussion on housing policies, and what we have found is that the direct intervention that the State should have, and not only in promoting access to housing aimed at social housing but also at all levels of the population, does not at this level have an answer, but continues to leave the intervention to the private and the result is what is being seen today.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u193	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u194	I shall finish, Mr President, with a question. We also note that in this strategy there is no reference to the law of urban rent. The honourable Member has referred to it and to its negative consequences in our country, with which we agree, in particular with regard to the price of income, but we note that in this strategy there is also a lack of intervention at this level, since the law, as it is today and as we all recognize, is negative and penalizing for the residents.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u195	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u196	So what I ask you is what answers to these questions and to the urgent need, which is what is crucial here, of the direct intervention of the State in promoting access to housing in our country, taking on its role and responsibility and not transferring them to others, much less to the private initiative. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u197	You now have the floor, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, to request clarification, Mrs Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u198	Mr President, Mrs Helena Roseta, first of all, I would like to thank you for your intervention, which allows us to have some debate on a matter as important as housing. And it is all the more important that, in recent years, our country has suffered an exponential increase in incomes and has reached a point where we have seen the withdrawal of people from city centers to the outskirts. This, coupled with the fact that income has been cut, especially during the PSD/CDS government, was an explosive cocktail for the desertification of our cities. And the legislation on housing has played a very important and also very negative role in this regard. Therefore, we are not surprised that, when we talk about housing, the only things PSD and CDS can say is that what they wanted, which was the liberalisation of the housing market, was effective — liberalisation, this, which had the disastrous consequences that it had and, even today, the data are being verified in people's concrete lives — but they cannot admit that it is necessary to radically change the direction that was being followed. The path we have already made with regard to the law of urban lease was an initial, still short step, it is necessary to go further, but the path is being made to go further. in this regard, he also questioned the fact that in Portugal, unlike other European countries, for example, the housing park held by the State is still very low and falls short of existing needs. And we know that this path of recovery of the housing park and construction of a new public housing park is a long way. That is why we would like to ask the honourable Member how she sees this issue, what specific deadlines and matters we can see here. It is that, in fact, when we talk about housing materials and the public housing park, and in recent years we have talked a lot about the municipalities, we also have to talk about the central state. Now, it is this joint that has failed, but from now on, the way is being made for this joint to be better made, so as to end the speculative bubble that, in fact, has never ended, especially in the largest cities of our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u199	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u200	I will finish, Mr. President. In fact, in Lisbon and Porto, we are witnessing an increase in this speculative bubble, which at present has a consequence that we will not achieve any reversal, which is the desertification of our cities. And if we do not start now and quickly counter this desertification, it will not be possible to reverse it as soon as possible. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u201	To respond to these various requests for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Helena Roseta.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u202	Mr President, I begin by answering Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, whom I thank for the questions. Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira already knows me, so I can't imagine that I would say that the opposite of what I say in the corridors, commissions, interviews or articles I write. I always say the same things, I do a critical reading of the events, and I do so with full awareness of what I am doing, because I have been doing it for many years. Mr President, it is a fact that at the end of the term of office your Government has approved the so-called ENH, i.e. the National Habitat Strategy, but it is also a fact that your Government has adopted measures, as I said in my political statement, which have completely disrupted the market, and the main part of them was the income law, Mr. by approving this National Habitat Strategy, with a view to urban rehabilitation, without any concern for social purposes, and at the same time liberalizing incomes, you put the ingredients for what we are watching, which is a complete deregulation of the market and a need for regulatory instruments on which I have never heard you speak. That is what you are at stake, Mr, and that is what I have tried to say. Mr Álvaro Castello-White asked me what changed. Mr President, the price of housing has changed, and it is changing every day and every week. This is what distresss me and worries me, and that is why we need to implement more measures. A general strategy is not enough, but the strategy of the previous government is not enough. Even this new generation of policies, which is important and different—if you read it, you will realize that you have differences... [[Prosthets of the Member of the CDS-PP Álvaro Castello-Branco.]] The first difference, Mr President, is the first programme there is called '1 '. the right — Programme of Support for the Right to Housing". This is the most important programme and it is not yet approved because it is under public discussion, as you know. So we have a lot of way to walk, as I also said, but we have to do. As for the National Building Rehabilitation Fund, let me tell you, Mr, that it was necessary to create the State Secretariat and to be appointed a person who has a gene date and a date of strength for the Fund to move from role to practice. The fund has already been approved...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u203	When? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u204	...and, moreover, I do not think that people have realized that the decision of all public buildings belonging to public entities has already been approved and that they are returned must be delivered to this Fund in order to be converted into housing, if that is compatible. This has never been approved, it's the first time it's been done. I have a great hope in this fund. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u205	But where's the fund?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u206	Members Paula Santos and Isabel Pires, of course, answer both together as regards the need to return to legislation on urban rent. The compromise of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, when we made the first amendment, already in this Parliament, was that this needed a new visit, still in this Parliament. There is something in the PS Government Programme that is not included in the amendments we have made, in particular one, which I stressed here, which is the relationship between the quality of housing and the price of housing. It was the law of liberalization of PSD and CDS incomes that broke this bond. An income can be established whatever it is, regardless of the state of the housing. The state of the dwelling may be good, bad or bad, that the income is the one that the owner wants. Now, this was a serious mistake and we are paying a high price for that mistake. That is why we need to re-examine this legislation. I would like to say to Mrs Paula Santos and Mrs Isabel Pires that, in addition to the State's direct intervention in promoting access to housing, is actually little, but that the Government intends to move from 2 % today to 5 %, i.e. of the 120 000 public fires that we have today for more than 175 000 years — to add up to 120 000 — in addition, we need measures to regulate the market.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u207	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u208	I will finish, Mr. President. That was the essence of what I tried to say today. We're with a speculative bubble on top, we need a strong state to regulate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u209	We turn to today's third political declaration, which will be made on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group by Mr José Moura Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u210	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: One of the most known and perennial injustices of our social protection system is the exclusion of workers who are independent of their coverage or the reduction to minimum guarantees. This injustice is compounded by the fact that many of these workers are victims of double discrimination: in addition to this lack of social protection, they live in precarious work, as is the case for workers with false green receipts. The step we are now taking does not solve the problem of the precariousness of workers to false green receipts. The Block has never given way to this fight, nor will it, as long as there are abuses to be committed against those who work. Moreover, in July, in this Parliament, we passed a law for the special recognition of the contract of employment and we proposed strengthening supervision in the field of work, but we do not abdicate to improve the levels of social protection of all workers, without excluding any one on the basis of the nature of their linkage. The social security contribution scheme for self-employed workers today is absolutely unfair: firstly, the worker does not pay according to what he is earning at every moment but what he has earned in the whole previous year; secondly, in the face of a very high contribution and an intermittent activity, many people choose to pay the minimum permitted and, even by closing up activity to not be forced to pay so much and the result is a very poor contribution career, which does not guarantee social protection, and in the future, a reform of misery; thirdly, independent workers pay social security today a rate of 29, 6 % because they pay all the contributions alone, while the companies that hire them, in most cases, do not contribute to anything. in the joint positions signed in November 2015, the Socialist Party, the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party entered the review of the basis for calculating the contributions paid by the workers to the green receipt. in the working group set up by the Government and the Left Block on the issues of precariousness, this was one of the issues we asked to address and develop. in the State Budget for 2017, the majority approved a legislative authorization on this matter, already marking the main lines of a fairer regime for self-employed workers. in the last year, we are deeply involved in technical work, deepening scenarios and hypotheses, and, after many months of negotiations, their results are now known. essentially, with the scheme now announced, workers will pay a lower rate on their income and will have a more protected career. The responsibility for social protection, which is extended, is shared with the contracting entities and the level of the discount is approximated to the level of income in each period. Thus, the new scheme now proposed promotes greater linkage of all workers to social security, ensures greater simplicity and enhances the sustainability of the public social security system. This agreement will certainly not be perfect but it transforms the regime that exists today, firstly, because it increases social protection: in order to have access to unemployment benefit, instead of being needed 720 days, 360 are needed and, rather than requiring an entity to be responsible for 80 % of the income, it is enough to be 50 %. The green receipt workers also enter the sickness allowance to 10. the day and, with this new regime, there is still a new right: the allowance for the follow-up of children and grandchildren, which already exists for workers on behalf of others and which is extended to self-employed. It is up to 30 days per year, without loss of income, to accompany the child in case of accident or illness, duly proven. For workers with social security debt there is also a change: at the moment, they lose any right to social protection for having that debt; with the new scheme, there is only a plan to pay benefits agreed to with social security and it is being fulfilled so that the employee in debt cannot be denied access to social benefits. In addition to social protection, this scheme also brings improvements to the worker in how to make their discounts: instead of being calculated as a function of the whole previous year, the contribution becomes calculated on the basis of the income of each quarter. In addition, the contribution of workers goes from current 29, 6 % to 21, 4 % and affects 70 % of what the worker earned in the last quarter and the worker can still change this reference income by increasing it or decreasing it by 25 %. How is it possible to have more protection by paying a lower fee? The answer is simple and corresponds to an essential political option: by sharing the contribution responsibility between the worker and the contracting entity. Currently, those who hire a service provision, who hire a green receipt job, are exempt from contributing to the social protection of the worker. in fact, only 23 000 contracting entities contribute and these entities do not pay, 5 %. Under the new scheme, this rate of contracting entities also duplicates and doubles the number of entities called to contribute. It is a matter of justice, as it is a matter of justice to move in the exemptions. They remain for those who are pensioners, they remain for the first 12 months for those who enter the system, they remain for those who have a contract of employment on behalf of others, with the exception of those who, despite having this contract, have either a salary or a income greater than €2449 / month, which corresponds to 1% of the self-employed. There are 9000 people throughout the country who will be contributing and who will benefit from strengthening their reform as well. This scheme, as I have already said, does not solve, nor does it aim to solve, the problem of the precariousness of workers to false green receipts. For this, the law must be applied and the contracts must be awarded due to whom it is not a true self-employed person. But for independent workers, this scheme brings justice, more social protection, adequate contributions to the oscillation of their incomes, accountability of contracting entities. It is a giant step for many thousands of workers whose rights have been forgotten. I shall finish by saying that for years now the Left Block has been fighting for a courageous change in workers' contributions to green receipt and, with this agreement, a very important step is now being taken in this direction. This is a victory for the green receipt workers, it is a victory for hundreds of thousands of people whose rights have indeed been forgotten for too long. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u211	Mr José Soeiro, the Bureau records the registration of three Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u212	Mr President, I shall first respond to two requests for clarification and then to the third.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u213	Mr José Soeiro, after all there is still another inscription to ask for clarification, making four in total. So, you answer in blocks of two?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u214	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u215	Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor for the first request for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u216	Mr President, Mr José Soeiro brought the issue of workers' contributions to green receipt. Mr Deputy, in 2016, you negotiated in the State budget a legislative authorization for the government to amend this regime. I do not know if you have already looked at the schedule, but we are at the end of 2017 — December 13 is today!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u217	I hadn't noticed it was December 13th yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u218	What's the matter?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u219	Now, the State Budget for 2018 has already been approved, and you make a political statement based on news reports, saying that they finally reached agreement with the government? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u220	You think we just agreed on a news report? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u221	Mr. Deputies, this is pure virtual policy! It's pure virtual politics! We do not know the proposals, we do not know what you were negotiating and what we fear is the worst. It is because you announced that you wanted to improve the lives of self-employed people so that the Secretary of State for Social Security would soon come to say that it was impossible to say that there would be no increase in discounts for some workers. For it is, Mr President, what we know is that in 2018 the end of the simplified scheme will make the lives of independent workers in hell and what you are doing with the change of the contribution regime risks adding to that same hell. We cannot fail to note that, for the Left Block, all independent workers are workers at false green receipts. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] What we see, again, is virtual policy. [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]] With regard to companies, what we have recorded is that the increase in contributions begins as of January 2018, already the reduction in rates that you have announced for workers...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u222	Sir, I will ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u223	... will be only in the last quarter of 2018, i.e. there for 2019. So, Mr President, may I ask you to clarify the following: is the Left Block again trying to deceive itself or is it trying to deceive the workers in the green receipt? It was good if I made it clear. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u224	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Rita Rato.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u225	Mr President, Mr Soeiro, I welcome the intervention you have made here because, in fact, the fight against false green receipts and the review of the social security contribution regime of self-employed people is a very important matter, which has deserved intervention and dedication from the CFP that is not behind what is the need for intervention in this area. in the State budget for 2016, the CFP presented a proposal according to which the Government should review the basis for calculating the contributions and contributions of self-employed workers to social security on the basis of the income actually taken by these workers. And that is not a small thing, because, in fact, what is in place today greatly harms these workers. It is important to say, on this subject, that we are talking about real self-employed people, because another parallel reality is the problem of using false green receipts to work.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u226	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u227	in this case, the only possible solution for a worker to false green receipts is the guarantee of an effective employment contract with rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u228	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u229	There is no other possible solution for a worker to false green receipts other than the guarantee of a contract of work and with rights. [[PCP applause.]] With regard to self-employed people, we are discussing another issue. On the independent workers, we are not surprised that the CDS Member, in his speech, has come to say that this is a hell and that improving the system is to create a hell because, when he was in the Ministry of Social Security, what the CDS did to the independent workers was to worsen his incomes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u230	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u231	...was to reap his goods,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u232	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u233	...was to pursue these workers, as if they were criminals. Therefore, the CDS, when it had the social security folder, never had the willingness to meet these specificities, from the beginning of the fight against work to false green receipts, but also the guarantee and revision of the social security contribution regime for true independent workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u234	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u235	The CFP will be in this fight, first of all, to combat false green receipts and precariousness and, secondly, to revise the contribution code and to guarantee fairer measures for these workers. This is a compromise of the CFP and it is a need for civilization. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u236	To respond to these two requests for clarification, Mr Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u237	Mr President, Mr António Carlos Monteiro, the CDS has a very black history with regard to the persecution of self-employed people for various reasons. Of course, he is sitting on his bench the former Minister Mota Soares, who was the greatest stalker of the workers the green receipt,... [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u238	It was the one who created the unemployment allowance for self-employed people!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u239	... it was the one who seized the goods of these workers because of their debts, it was the one who, on account of unfair debts, because of a scheme that is unfair to the level of contributions, made workers who, for example, had this debt and were already in benefit agreements to pay it could not access any social protection. For example, a worker who becomes pregnant and who has a debt because of an unfair regime, even though he has already made a performance agreement, with the regime that exists—and so it was also in the time of former Minister Mota Soares—is prevented from accessing any protection in maternity, parenthood.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u240	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u241	Does this make any sense? Oh, my God! Does this have any justice? Oh, my God! Not to mention a trick.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u242	Not to mention the detail of 15 days ago, when their taxes increased!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u243	... that has made Mr. Minister, former Minister Mota Soares — fortunately he is ex-Minister and is a relief that he is ex-Minister! — and which had a very obvious result: to put 40 % of the workers on a green receipt to be discounted on an incidence of €209, i.e. to build pensions and poor contribution careers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u244	The concern of the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u245	... that do not give access to social protection. So, honourable Member, I ask you: is it against or in favour of extending social protection to self-employed people? Is it against or in favour of adjusting the contributions to income periods corresponding to the quarters? Is it against or in favour of the most fair rules in the distribution of the contribution effort? On the concrete question of knowing why there is something that comes in January, another that enters in the middle of the year and another that enters in the 3rd. the quarter, the answer is very easy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u246	Since 2016 we are to know!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u247	Mr President, just think about this: how does a contracting entity look? It's only about the end of the year. How is it going to become the workers' regime? Per trimester. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member António Carlos Monteiro.]] Therefore, in order for the scheme to work in the last quarter of 2018 for workers, we have to assess which is its contracting entity since the beginning of the year. It's not too hard to understand.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u248	It's just for the CDS! [[Protests by CDS-PP Member António Carlos Monteiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u249	I just read the cover of the paper... [[Protests by CDS-PP Member António Carlos Monteiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u250	Mrs Rita Rato, the Left Block, like the PCP, entered into the agreement she made with the Socialist Party on this matter. The Left Block, such as the PCP, approved in 2016 the programmatic standard to be reviewed the basis for calculating the contributions of these workers. And the Left Block, like the CFP, was together with the Socialist Party also in the adoption of a legislative authorization which already contained the general features of this new regime which has now been agreed upon and which will be taken to the Council of Ministers. That is why we have this convergence on the need for this amendment, but we also have convergence on another subject which the honourable Member has brought here, which is the fight against precariousness, of course. The fight against false green receipts is essential and that is why, together in July, in this Parliament, we passed a law for the recognition of employment contracts, a law for the special action for the recognition of the employment contract. Mrs Rita Rato and I agree: let's do this fight without prejudice...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u251	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u252	...it is not an excuse for us not to improve a regime that is deeply unfair to independent workers. And, of course, we also agree on this. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u253	Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u254	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Soeiro, today is a happy day in this Parliament because I believe it is a happy day when we can debate more justice, more balance, more rights, improving people's lives, which is what really mobilizes us. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u255	This change that we are discussing today is a change that corresponds to a founding commitment of the current majority, a change that changes decades of unfair rules for workers to green receipts, which is therefore a very expected change and for which there was a lot of expectation on the part of these workers. What has happened at the level of green receipts shows well the result of the resignation of the State in the regulation intervention of the world of work, and the green receipts correspond, many of them, to deferred lives, precariousness, instability, to the impossibility of emancipation by these workers. Therefore, we have sought to balance duties, balance rights and improve the lives of these people. We did it around three great axes. First, the strengthening of social protection, the strengthening of social protection in the field of unemployment, the strengthening of social protection in health care, and, above all, in the care of parenthood, in the care of children and grandchildren. Secondly, we adjusted the contribution to the worker's income, particularly by lowering the worker's contribution effort; we changed the rate for economically dependent workers, lowering it. Thirdly, greater accountability by contracting entities, with the increase in the contribution rate currently in charge. Mr President, over the past few years — not specifically with this government but with the last governments — we have always heard a lot about structural reforms, the need to make reforms in the country and the need to change rules to make the country fairer, more balanced and more competitive. Normally these structural reforms on the right correspond to less rights, more cuts, more injustices. I would like to ask you whether this reform really corresponds to a structural reform, which allows us to change the rules we relate to in our society.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u256	For the last request for clarification on this political declaration, Mr Adam Silva has the floor on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u257	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr José Soeiro, this matter of the relations of self-employed workers with social security, whether in the contribution aspect or in the performance aspect, is a very sensitive matter and requires a great reflection and a great legislative effort to ensure that it is well prepared, thought-out, prudent and balanced. First of all, we must recognize that, for parties that made this matter the sacrosanct aspect of their political life, it took a long time to do something about it, because it has already taken more than two years of governance. But, after all, it's better to be late than never...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u258	For you, it was never!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u259	...and we hope, obviously, that what is being done will be done well. Obviously, I don't know what's being done. I hear some news, there's been conversations, but I'm really waiting for the bill to come...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u260	The time isn't waiting, it's fighting!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u261	... — it will perhaps be a bill which the Government will bring to this Parliament or then legislate by decree. Anyway, I'll wait to see the legislative diploma. It is because, believing in everything that you have brought here, you are aware that you are here promising a paradise for hundreds of thousands of workers and we have already seen how often paradises turn into hell. What is really being promised here is a set of benefits, a set of generositys, is a hand-opening to a horncopy of advantages and fabulous values that, truly, I do not know if they will be realized in a balanced way. Therefore, Mr President, I do not ask you any questions because the legislation will come and, when it comes, I will ask questions about the legislation which is published. But, in fact, I feel like there's a generalized offer here, an offer without pair of precedents and opportunities that truly seem to me to be unbalanced, imposed, reckless...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u262	Sir, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u263	...and, in the end, whoever will pay will be social security, because all the errors, however partial, made in these matters are paid for by social security and we have the greatest doubts as to the weight of these decisions which, by the way, will be made. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u264	To respond to these two last requests for clarification, Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u265	Mr President, Mr Adam Silva, information: this Parliament approved a legislative authorisation in the 2017 State budget. This legislative authorisation has not ceased, it will end at the end of the year, as we have approved. In other words, there is no bill to come to Parliament...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u266	You can come! Why can't you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u267	Sir, if you let me intervene... Parliament has already approved an authorization for the legislative government and has already defined the essential marks and traces of this new regime. in the case of social protection, as you know, it is also regulated by decree-law...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u268	There's a decree coming! Let us make a parliamentary assessment!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u269	...and, therefore, what we hope is that by the end of the year the Government will take the Council of Ministers of Diploma who can implement the amendments we are discussing here. Mr Deputy spoke about the need for balance and I ask you whether or not a system in which the contracting entity is responsibly...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u270	We'll see! We'll see!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u271	... by contributing effort for the social protection of the worker. Is it more balanced to say that the worker ship alone with the full contribution rate of 29, 6 % or is it more balanced, as is proposed in the agreement that has been disclosed today, the worker pays a portion of 21, 4 % and the contracting entity pays 10 %? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u272	It depends!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u273	The honourable Member spoke of caution and I wonder if there was any caution in the amendment your Government made so that people would have bases of incidence, contributing careers on the basis of the 209 € monthly? Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u274	If they wanted to! If they wanted to!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u275	I wonder if that's any caution? Oh, my God! The honourable Member also said that this looks like a miracle or a paradise. There is no paradise or miracle, there is a political option, which is to distribute the contribution effort. It is possible to alleviate the contribution of workers because the contracting entities are being co-responsibility and because there are people — 1 %, 9000 people out of the total of more than one million independent workers — who will be called to pay and who are now exempt. What are we talking about? of people who, in addition to their employment contract, accumulate more than €2449 monthly self-employment income and it is very fair that they are called to contribute. Therefore, to extend social protection, to create a fairer system, to create rules that do not put self-employed workers in a condition of second-class citizenship, it is — to respond to Mr Barbosa Ribeiro — of course, a structural reform, a real structural reform. The construction of a new regime, the profound reform we want to make to the green receipt regime is one of the most important structural reforms in the field of work. But there are still others, such as, for example, recovering the rights of work that were shaken in the time of the troika and that we need to re-enrol in our labour legislation. These structural reforms of valuing work, of valuing those living in their work, of dignity of work, of social protection, of densification of the social contract that is worth it, are the structural reforms to which this political majority has to respond. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u276	We turn to the last political statement this afternoon, which will belong to the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, by the voice of Mr Pedro Mota Soares. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u277	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: How many times have we not heard that Portugal needs more than one Autoeuropa? Oh, my God! Because of the strategic importance for our economy, Autoeuropa has placed Portugal at the centre of the automobile cluster; because of its importance for our exports, because the total value of factory exports represents about 1% of the total wealth produced in Portugal; because of the employment it generates, because we are talking about more than 5000 jobs, many of them qualified, in a climate that has always been a climate of flexibility, of labour peace, of huge dialogue between the Committee of Workers and employers and, above all, a climate that is exemplary for many, within and outside Portugal, even though many do not enjoy the Autoeuropa work model. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u278	Now, in 2014, when the previous government announced that a new investment contract for a new assembly line had been managed to be brought to Portugal, we were talking about some 700 million euros of investment, which could represent the hiring of 1500 new jobs, almost doubling exports from Palmela’s factory –, which was really being treated to Portugal another Autoeuropa, due to the importance that this factory has for our country. This investment is indeed vital for Portugal. This investment ensures that Portugal will have a presence in the car sector, a sector that is in rapid transformation, and that this presence will remain in the coming decades. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u279	This investment ensures that around 100 Portuguese companies — qualified companies, companies with a lot of innovation and development, companies providing Autoeuropa — can maintain their productive capacity. This investment guarantees the possibility of creating and maintaining 1500 additional jobs. More: this investment is often a reference, saying that Portugal can be a stable, reliable, reliable country for foreign investment. at this moment, this is at risk. at this moment, these values are being questioned, uniquely and exclusively by a political-party guerrilla who puts before the national interest the internal interest of some political parties of this House. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] It is the factory and the investment that can come out and we are not the ones who say it: it is the representative of the Committee of Workers, who fears that the production of the new model may go to other factories of the group, outside Portugal ; it is the Minister of Labour, who in idle hours also has to take the money of the economy, who claims that this impasse puts the company at risk; it is the President of the Republic himself, who has already appealed to social peace in the company, with all that it represents. Autoeuropa, due to the irresponsibility of some political agents, cannot have the same end as Opel de Azambuja had: to close the doors and go to other latitudes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u280	But they signed the deal!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u281	That is what may be at risk of happening and the consequences for Portugal would be too serious. That is why we appeal very vehemently to the government and the parties that support it, the Socialist Party, the Communist Party, the Left Block and the Greens : do not use the employment situation of Autoeuropa to have advances or retreats in agreement with the Government, this would be totally irresponsible; do not instrumentalize a company and its workers... [[Protests from BE and PCP MP Miguel Tiago.]] ... at a time when the future of an investment of more than 700 million euros is at stake, able to double its productive capacity, as this would be to address national interests; they do not call into question more than 5000 jobs, a significant part of our exports, a large portion of national production, only to force the government and the social partners to surrender elsewhere. That would be to have a burnt land policy. [[Protests from BE and PCP MP Miguel Tiago.]] That is why the Government's highest priority at the moment should be to ensure that the situation of Autoeuropa is freely defined by its workers in social dialogue and not by interference from political parties or trade union forces outside the company;...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u282	Strange, how? With three heads and four arms? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u283	... ensure that the investment in Autoeuropa and the production of the new model remain in Portugal, without this having to mean more concessions to the Communist Party or the Left Block... [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] ... ensure that the image of Portugal as an investment-friendly country, with modern, flexible labour legislation, which values that social peace, does not go out belliscated. That is why, very directly, I say: Mr Minister for Economic Affairs, be where you are, Mr Minister for Labour, Mr Prime Minister — who whenever there is bad news prefers to be far and wide — between the interest of Portugal and the interests of the Communist Party or the Left Block, always choose the national interest, do not allow this factory to lose this investment or leave Portugal. It is the interest of Portugal that is being placed here above all. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u284	Four Mrs have signed up. Members to make requests for clarification. For the first request for clarification, Mr Luís Testa, of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u285	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we speak today in a country that has a balanced model, especially in labour management, between companies and workers, a model that resides in commitment, participation and agreement. It is not possible to achieve levels of success without commitment, without participation and without agreement. It is this model that exists throughout the country, and especially in Autoeuropa, and that explains well the success or, at least, much of the success of that company. Autoeuropa is one of the largest and most important companies in the country and has an absolutely significant contribution to the national economy. It is a company that creates employment and wealth and promotes exports. It is, therefore, a remarkable company and a large part of its notability remains and resides in this commitment culture that has years, has history and has success. Today, we live in cartoon times, times when those who were accused of being the incendiaries are those who try to promote agreements and those who accused others of being incendiary are themselves the incendiaries. Today, in the Assembly of the Assembly, we have a party that has a matrix and, above all, a history of political action which systematically underestimated the need for agreement.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u286	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u287	Such contempt may exist only because there is contempt for one of the parties. If this model does not serve the CDS, propose you to Ex.a a model that serves the Country and not only to one of the parts of the agreement. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u288	Mr Bruno Dias, from the CFP, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u289	Mr President, Mr Pedro Mota Soares, when you hear the unfortunate provocation brought here to the workers, and to those of Autoeuropa in particular, there is an inevitable question: are you talking about automatons, machines that are the cheapest in the factory or are you talking about free men and women, who decide for themselves, who exercise their freedom consciously and who choose to say 'no' when they understand or 'yes' when they understand, in defence of their rights and dignity? [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]] [[CDS-PP protests.]] It is that this sobriety of enlightenment, of the "heritage of the stop" with which workers are concerned as if they were included, without their own will, in whose orders they are, is something that says much more about themselves than about the workers, and it is very revealing and demonstrative of the contempt with which you, in the CDS, look at the people, the workers and the people. [[PCP applause.]] No, Mr President, no one defends more jobs, production and national production than workers and the CFP. It was only lacking that those who directly and actively contributed to the dismantling and degradation of the national production apparatus, to emigration and unemployment would now accuse anyone who would threaten jobs and economic units! Do you know what has changed in Autoeuropa? We tell him. What changed in Autoeuropa was the attitude of the administration, and it was not now, there were four referendums in which workers said no to the measures that the administration intends to apply, two this year, 2017, and two last year, in 2016. But the honourable Member, with his experience of politics as he does, reduces all of this to a party game, as if it were a taboo or a dogma, this idea that there is only production if there is an attack on rights. Since when, Mr President, has the defence of production and the productive sectors gone through unbridled exploitation, inhumanization, denial of rights? Since when is there only work at the factory if workers stop seeing their children? It is right that for the CDS, family values are very important, but only for some families. [[CDS-PP protests.]] Mr President, what the Committee on Workers and the most representative union of workers in Autoeuropa have repeatedly advocated is that the administration should return to the negotiating table. That's what's needed, but that's not what's happening.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u290	Mr Bruno Dias, you asked him to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u291	I will finish, Mr. President. This line of confrontation and imposition of the company's administration may have two answers: ours, that of the CFP, is to reaffirm the conviction that it is possible to find an appropriate solution, which allows production to be compatible with workers' rights; yours, that of the CSD, is to make complaints from the workers and to require the government to put the workers in order and help the boss to impose his law. For many years now, there has always been someone in this Chamber who has been doing this, and today the honourable Member has come here to do so. Today, as in the past, this is not what will frighten those who work and refuse to "eat and shut up" before exploitation, intimidation and blackmail. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u292	You have the floor to answer these first two requests for clarification, Mr Pedro Mota Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u293	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by answering Mr Luís Testa, whom I thank for the question. The honourable Member asked what model we have, and I reply to him that it is the model that is in current labour legislation, which you have just praised. It is good to remember that the Socialist Party in the opposition did not say that and that the Socialist Party daily tells the Communist Party, the Left Block and the Greens that, after all, does not like this Labour Code so much and that even wants to change some things in this Labour Code.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u294	You've got days!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u295	You know what they tell us!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u296	Therefore, I perceive this duality of the Socialist Party's discourse, but I confess that I prefer this Realistic Socialist Party, which realizes that this investment is structural for Portugal. Mr Bruno Dias, allow me to say, firstly, very frankly: «inheritors of the stop », keep that language to your colleagues of government, to your friends of the government that you can every day here in Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u297	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u298	This language of the heirs and political families seems to be better applied to this government than to any other government. Secondly, the honourable Member presents himself here a little as if he were the legitimate representative of the workers. I will read to you what the most historic unionist of Autoeuropa, whose name is António Chora and who worked in that company for almost 30 years, said about the Portuguese Communist Party, about this same process: «Yes, it is clearly the assault on the castle and the attempt of the Portuguese Communist Party to press the government for some concessions elsewhere». [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u299	You should have scheduled another political statement!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u300	Mr President, we know very well where the Communist Party was when the Opel of Azambuja closed and went elsewhere. We went from 4000 workers to zero.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u301	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u302	I know very well where the Communist Party was and where the Communist Party is now using Autoeuropa as the stage of a political guerrilla.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u303	That's how you see politics!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u304	Let the Committee of Workers, which is negotiating with the legitimate representatives of employers, be able to truly represent workers. She represents them. I know that you have never liked a model of social development, of labour peace, which exists in Autoeuropa. Why? Because in this model it is the workers who speak for themselves, it is the workers who represent themselves, there is a committee of legitimate workers, which does not often need trade unionists who do not know companies, who never go to companies, who have not entered the door of a company for more than 20 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u305	That's how you see politics! [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u306	This is a model that the Communist Party does not like because it gives workers freedom, and you fill your mouth with the workers, but then at the time of truly defending jobs, they are on the outside. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u307	To ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Mercês Borges of the Social Democratic Party. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would be grateful if we could hear Mrs Mercês Borges quietly.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u308	Mr President, I don't know if it will be quiet, but that is what I certainly wish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u309	It is up to me to appeal, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u310	Thank you very much, Mr President. I begin by greeting the CDS, in the person of Mr. Pedro Mota Soares, for bringing the issue of Autoeuropa to the colloquium in this debate, because it is truly important not only for the country but also for the Setúbal district. It is in this sense that I am also addressing some questions to the honourable Member here. Indeed, the years I've spent in my life allow me to have several experiences. I remember when Autoeuropa settled in the Setúbal district, it was the era of black flags, unemployment and poverty. It was that time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u311	Are you talking about the troika?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u312	No, I am not, Madam Member, but it was good for you to know this time, it was good for you to know the time when Autoeuropa came, which, 20 years ago, was a reference, an example for many workers, for the trade union movement — what respect — and where it was possible to build social dialogue, dialogue and peace, produce and create wealth, contribute to the development of the Setúbal district and the country, create numerous jobs, leave qualifications, leave paid jobs above the average.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u313	And referenda aren't part of that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u314	This is what we want, and this is what we are defending here: dialogue, dialogue, and not confrontation, as is the ideology that today prevails in that factory and which imposes on workers, which is the lack of dialogue, the lack of consultation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u315	They want dialogue!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u316	If, one day, the unions that you so well orient — I stress, orient — take that factory to the extreme, you know the consequences.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u317	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u318	It will again be a district of misery, a district of poverty, a district of black flags. [[PSD applause.]] If that happens, you're not taking...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u319	Is that a threat?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u320	It is no threat, we are calling for consultation, dialogue and continuation of the model that has so far prevailed. They generate jobs, they generate wealth to be distributed, so that we have a country and a district with well-being. [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u321	Aren't you ashamed to applaud this? Oh, my God! Threats! Threats!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u322	Get in a factory! Have you worked at a factory yet? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u323	Do you applaud this? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u324	Get in a factory!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u325	I appeal again to the Members and to the Members. Members so that they create conditions for the debate can be more serenely. For the last request for clarification, Mrs Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u326	Mr President, I shall begin as soon as conditions are created.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u327	PSD wants the return of hunger to Setúbal district!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u328	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for listening to Mrs Joana Mortágua with serenity. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u329	Mr President, Mr Pedro Mota Soares, there are two things that all workers and businesses in this country know: the first is that the Bloc has never instrumentalized any workers' organisations, the second is that they do not have the CDS to defend their rights. They're two certain that all the workers have. In view of this, the debate on Autoeuropa needs to be refocused. Autoeuropa has always submitted the production model to negotiation and referendums at the factory. It was this model that gave rise to the tranquillity that everyone praises and that even the CDS here praised. This model served even when the factory had to decrease production with down days. Now comes a new model, which we all want, comes a new investment for Autoeuropa, and we need to increase production. What is at stake is the terms in which workers accept or do not work on the weekend, are the terms in which they accept or do not find their schedules of their family schedules, in which they accept or do not disorganize their whole life.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u330	They want to know about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u331	What is at stake here is that the administration of Autoeuropa, which is in trouble because of the scandals of emissions it has had all over the world, is using an unfair Labour Code, which you helped to approve, to impose continuous work at the factory, unilaterally ignoring the will of workers. That's what's at stake here. It's not about relocation. Dislocation is a shameful blackmail that you use to instrumentalize workers and to intervene within the factory. If you want to talk about interference within the factory, we're talking about the threat of relocation with which you want to blackmail workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u332	Another «inheritor of the stop»!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u333	And there is also no dispute between the Committee of Workers and Trade Unions. Moreover, the pre-agreements which were plunged by the workers were signed both by the Committee of Workers and by trade union representatives who were part of this Committee of Workers. Here, what is at stake is that the Labour Code, which you have helped to build, is killing dialogue in Autoeuropa ; it is not the rights of workers, it is not the respect for workers' rights, it is not the respect for negotiation as a principle of intervention within the factory that is killing dialogue in Autoeuropa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u334	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u335	What is killing dialogue in Autoeuropa is the fact that the administration is unilaterally imposing the unfair Labour Code that you have approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u336	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u337	I'm done now, Mr. President. We therefore need more companies like Autoeuropa, we certainly need more factories that respect rights and negotiate with their workers. What I would like to ask you, Mr President, is which side you are on, if you are on the side of this negotiation that Autoeuropa has always had and has always given workers rights or if you are on the side of the Labour Code, which is killing this negotiation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u338	To reply, Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u339	Mr President, Mrs Maria das Mercês Borges, I ask you not to take me to harm but I will start by answering Mrs Joana Mortágua, to whom I, of course, thank the questions. Mrs. Joana Mortágua, I still remember when the Left Block said that the Labour Code was the dismissal code and that with this Labour Code more people would be fired.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u340	And they fired!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u341	Mrs. Deputy, have you ever looked into reality? Since the Labour Code was approved and entered into force in 2013, unemployment has come down every year...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u342	It's not your fault!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u343	...and going down in a very significant way. That means that the Labour Code that you said was the Labour Code to fire has been curiously the Labour Code to hire. And now, Mrs Chora, it was exactly with this Labour Code that the last agreement was made in Autoeuropa, that the Committee of Workers, at the time led by trade unionist Antonio Chora, was able to make an agreement in Autoeuropa. Therefore, Mrs. Member, if you want to know the reality, a little bit to the Left Block, get out of these walls, get out of the little world that often the Left Block has and goes to reality. Do you know why, Your Honor? I am going to read a sentence on the relocation of production of the new model: « We fear that Volkswagen will pass part of the production of T-Roc to other factories in the group in Europe. Fear is stronger after yesterday's lead." Do you know who said this, Your Honor? He was the representative of the Committee of Workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u344	After blackmail everything's waiting for what?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u345	And for that reason, Mrs Deputies, I don't mind but, among what Mrs Deputies says here in Parliament, sitting comfortably in a chair, or what the employee representative is saying in Autoeuropa - it seems to me that the reality is on the side there, is next to Autoeuropa, she is not with Mrs Deputies. Until, once again, the Left Block demonstrates the ignorance it has on these matters and on these issues. If Autoeuropa has 26 years of social peace it is because it is an exemplary model, it is a very important model, which could even be applied in other sectors, in other companies. at this moment, Mrs Deputy, if social peace in Autoeuropa is at issue is not because of the Committee of Workers is, yes, because of the instrumentalization that political parties are making of those workers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u346	Especially yours!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u347	... is the instrumentalization that is happening, and this instrumentalization can give small political-party dividends to the Communist Party or the Block of the Left but questions the national interest, and it is in the name of the national interest that we raise our voice here. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u348	Mrs. Members, we are now taking part in the third item on today's agenda, which consists in a joint assessment of petitions Nos 214 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — They call for the defrosting of the progression in teacher careers and the remuneration positions of non-teaching staff ( FNE — National Federation of Education ) and 272 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — They request the restoration of non-teacher careers ( FNE — National Federation of Education ) and draft resolutions 1170 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the counting of all time of service for the purpose of remunerative valuation resulting from career progression ( CFP ), 1171 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the valorization of non-teachers in public school ( CFP ), 1175 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Assessment of the consequences of the merger process of public administration careers in schools ( BE ) and 1180 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Counting of all service time for career progression ( The Greens ). To present the legislative initiative of the CFP, and to introduce this debate, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u349	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like to begin by congratulating the representatives of the trade union structures present here to attend this debate, as well as the Members. Petitioners. I would like to say that the CFP today brings to plenary a set of projects that contribute to the valorization of public school and its workers, whether they are teachers or not, because they are all important to the teaching/learning process. One of the most striking aspects resulting from the approval of the State Budget for 2018 is the fact that for the first time in more than 10 years, the right to career progression to public administration workers is restored. in fact, it is not a blessing that we speak of, on the contrary, to fulfil the rights of workers recognized in law and conquered precisely by the struggle of workers. With regard to what was planned in the Budget, I would also like to point out that the CFP has been particularly active, contributing decisively to the progress achieved. But if it is true that there have been advances it has not been clarified, as the CFP argues, that all the time of service counts for the purpose of the remunerative valuation resulting from the progression. If we consider that it is precisely within the framework of negotiation with trade unions or with professional associations that must be found the form and the timetable to give expression to this appreciation, we also do not preclude the claim that all the time of service relates to the promotion and progression of all careers, positions and categories, including those integrated into special bodies, but, as is evident, the case of teachers is safeguarded. As for non-teachers, the CFP greatly appreciates the fundamental role they play in public school. They always had specific functional contents and had a specific career, with their own developments, until they were badly integrated into general careers. following this that was an authentic devaluation, the truth is that there have been situations of disrespect for the functional content and use of these workers often « as a stick for the whole harvest», if I allow the expression. The importance of these non-teachers and their intervention in the student's own follow-up, in the most varied situations, deserves to be taken measures for their fair valorisation and the CFP today proposes that a negotiation process be opened for this purpose in conjunction with the unions, discussing a specific status and careers, without forgetting the necessary compliance and respect for the functional content of each career of non-teachers and the existence of specific training and programmatic content for each career. These are some of the proposals that the CFP brings here today to defend and value the public school and all its workers. [[PCP applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u350	Mrs Ana Mesquita, I thank you for the precise fulfilment of time. Mrs Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u351	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I want to congratulate FNE, as responsible for these petitions we have discussed here now, and all the workers and workers in the public school who have signed it. We have two petitions that we are going to discuss today on this point, and one has to do with defrosting the careers of teachers and non-teachers and repositioning in the career. However, defrosting was finally guaranteed by the State budget, so this matter is now resolved happily for the rights of these workers and of these workers. Regarding the time count of the teachers and the proper replacement, it is one of the subjects that will be in trade union negotiation, still this week. The Left Block has a well-known position on this and has presented a proposal for the full accounting of the time of service in the repositioning in the State budget. This proposal has not been adopted in accordance with the terms in which the Left Block proposed, but we will be attentive to negotiations that take place with the unions and we will bring here a new proposal, if we think it is necessary, to ensure the right of these teachers to fully account for their time of service for the purpose of career progression. There is a second issue, which has to do with the restoration of the careers of non-teachers, which calls for a negotiation process to be initiated for the establishment of special careers for non-teachers. This is a very serious matter, on which Parliament should look carefully and without prejudice or sectarianism at the outset. Therefore, in its project, the Left Block, first of all, proposes to evaluate what were the consequences on the quality of education and on the attention given to students of the merger of careers of non-teachers in public school. It must be understood that within a school there are people who are responsible for the students—for everything, from their education to their well-being from the moment they leave the classroom door. And these people are these workers. Thus, if we think of the consequences of the absence of specific careers for these workers, we can immediately reflect on two: on the one hand, the so-called school meals, with the need to grant privates with damage to food quality, with damage to food education, because it ended with the specific career of cook, one of which would be so necessary to recover, and on the other hand, the follow-up of students with special educational needs, a function that we all recognise is so particular, that it requires such specific training, attention and care that it should, of course, correspond to a career and recognition of career as specific. Now, these workers are not indifferent to the work they perform every day and cannot be indifferent to the way we look at them.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u352	Mrs. Deputy, you've outlived your time. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u353	Therefore, given these identified needs, the Left Block proposes what the petitioners are asking for, i.e., that a negotiation process be opened for recognition of these specific careers and that they also have access to specific training for the functions they perform. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u354	Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u355	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, the Parliamentary Group of the Greens would like to welcome all petitioners from petitions Nos 214 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and 273 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and also direct a special compliance to the FNE for the mobilisation of these petitions. In fact, these petitions focus primarily on the issue of defrosting career progression and also on the specific careers of non-teachers. With these petitions, The Greens understood to drag to discuss a draft resolution entitled « Counting all the time of service for career progression ». As it is from public knowledge, it has been almost a decade since the public service workers are under this terrible maximum of the freezing of careers, a profoundly unjust measure, which was promised, still above, as temporary and which has been dragged, dragged, dragged, as it is from knowledge, and these people are effectively victims of this measure that has been taken. in this sense, one of the great battles of The Greens since the beginning of the Legislature is to proceed to defrosting careers, which is of the most elementary justice. Thus, the State Budget for 2018, approved recently by the Assembly of the Republic, foresees this thawing. However, there are careers where time of service is, among other factors, determining for progression and for its remunerative valuation. at first, as is also known, the government sought that time of service would not be accounted for. However, the expressive struggle, particularly of teachers, forced the Government to generate a dialogue with its representative structures. in the context of the discussion of the State budget, in the specialty, The Greens presented a concrete proposal that determined that, for the purposes of career progression, it would be considered all the time of service provided by workers during the freezing period of their careers. The Greens presented this proposal because it is deeply unfair to intention and to make a "clash" about this time of service provided. The proposal was, however, rejected and the great argument for the rejection of the Greens proposal, which was put forward by the PS, and also endorsed by the Government, was intended to dialogue with the trade unions on this issue. The Greens recall that the unions have never abdicated this dialogue, they have moved forward with the possibility that this time count may be phased but not deleted. Therefore, the opening and continuation of negotiations and this process of dialogue with the trade unions are required at this time, with a view to finding just solutions for counting all the time of service for the purposes of career progression. What the Greens say and repeat is that freezing was a brutal injustice, but it's important that the solution...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u356	I would ask you to finish, Madam Commissioner, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u357	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I said, it is important that the solution, which is the thawing, does not also turn into a deep injustice.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u358	Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u359	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by welcoming the petitioners and the parliamentary groups who present initiatives in this debate. This legislation has been a time of bet on education and, for the PS and for the government, investing in education is also investing in its professionals. I would like to recall just a few moments: the end of the retraining for teachers; the end of the school contract; the continuous strengthening of the number of operational assistants, now with prospects for future linkage; the new portfolio of ratios, which is allowing structural strengthening of non-teaching staff in schools; the creation of the Portuguese Gestive Language Recruitment Group; the revision of the intervals of 1. the cycle; the harmonisation of pre-school and 1 calendars. the cycle; the return of investment in continuous teacher training; the revaluation of monodoc; we started the fight against work precariousness; the extraordinary linkage that covered only about 3400 teachers; the improvement of the norm-work, being that the State budget for 2018 already has the means for new extraordinary linkage, once again with very relevant numbers and again will be improved the norm-work; confidence in teachers as professionals, which is in itself a bet on educational improvement, as shown by the project of autonomy and curriculum flexibility; and, from the next day 1 January, the defrosing of careers, which will be done because this government has placed this measure in its programme and will comply with it in the promised time frame. Others would do different, or they wouldn't! A PSD member had been talking about a cost-free defrosting situation for some time. We know what that means in the PSD lexicon. For what this government is going to do is to freeze with expenditure: a significant part of what the state will invest in careers through thawing will be invested precisely in education professionals. Almost half of the teachers will always have a development of their career already in 2018 and the thawing of the general careers of Public Administration positively affects non-teaching staff of education. Now, there is a new question here: is it possible to instantly recover the past time? Only those who do not understand the seriousness of what has happened in this country in past years can think of doing so from one moment to the next. The former government has chosen education to cut more than EUR 1000 million from the Memorandum of Understanding, which well reflects the scale of the path we have to do. As for the concrete model of career reconstruction that will allow us to regain lost time, we have already taken steps in the State budget and will start negotiations between the government and the trade unions on Friday, which start with the commitment already reached on 18 November. We hope that these negotiations will work well for education, for professionals and for the country and, therefore, we will not follow any initiative which aims at interfering with these negotiations at this time, because such interference could only harm the negotiations that we want to succeed. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u360	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u361	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by greeting the petitioners of petitions Nos 214 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and 272 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), present here, both of the initiative of the FNE ( National Federation of Education ). with regard to the petition on the defrosting of career progressions of teachers and non-remunerative positions of non-teachers, although it is a 2016 petition, the subject could no longer be on the agenda. This discussion, it is recalled, was resumed in July, with an announcement of intention of defrosting careers in the public service, in which the government allowed teachers to create the expectation of counting time for the purposes of progression. And this discussion gained the current, well-known proportions when the same government and the parties that support it presented a proposal for a State Budget, negotiated among all, which excluded teachers from counting time, deleting the years of service provided. I am saying again, without wheels, the position of the CDS is clear: in the light of the current Statute of the Teacher Career and the way the Government has managed this process, teachers have a legitimate expectation. This legitimate expectation must be considered in the light of three criteria: the guarantee of relative justice within the Public Service; the budgetary restrictions present; and future budgetary restrictions, in particular if necessary reforms are at risk or the development of educational programmes for students. For this weighting, the Ministry and teachers' representatives, from the beginning of FNE, have several negotiating variables: time and the issue of progressiveity; form of payment; possibility of retirement under conditions that may be a relevant option for a particular group of teachers; career terms and many other hypotheses that the CDS does not have to define. in the CDS, we also said from the outset that this is a matter of government and that only the government has all data, including the financials, to decide. We therefore look forward to the next round of negotiations that will take place on Friday, until it is clear what is going to happen, taking into account the many statements made by the honourable Members. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretarys of State and Prime Minister who do not agree. in this perspective of inconsistencies, I can not fail to make a note on the Bloc, the PCP and the Greens, who have accepted a proposal for Budget that has left out of this issue and who have approved, in general and in final vote, an Budget in these terms, thus guaranteed another year of government solution, but who now present themselves as the great advocates of the teachers, claiming their rights that, in time of negotiation of balances, they have chosen to leave behind. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] The truth is, like up here, you can't get out of here anymore! They are now as involved in the problem as the PS and the government. A final note to say that on the part of the CDS we reject generalizations and demagogies that devalue the role of teachers and we hope that, precisely to defend their importance also in the lives of our children, trade unions and government find solutions as demanding as fair to all. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u362	For an intervention, Mr Amadeu Alberbergaria has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u363	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would like to begin by congratulating FNE and saying that the subjects we are now discussing require seriousness and rigour. The PSD is in favour of defrosting careers and defending the principle of fairness and justice, but this principle has not been safeguarded by the government and all the discussion we had during the State budget around the progress and defrosting of teachers' careers has shown it. The government wasn't serious. He tried to hide that the extent to which he determined the freezing of careers and that he decided that this time would not count for the future was taken by the Socialist Party. But since the lie has a short leg, the government has ended up in contradictions that have proved that it has not seriously, transparently and thoroughly analysed the matter. So, in this regard, we have seen the Minister of Education flee from the teachers, refuse to negotiate, lay down responsibilities for the Minister of Finance ; we have also seen the Prime Minister say that the accounting of time was not possible and that it was an impossible problem ; we have seen the Secretary of State deny Mr Prime Minister ; and then we have seen the Minister of Finance deny one of the Secretaries of State. Finally, we have seen everything and to its contrary to it to end up having a government forced to negotiate and that will now be confronted with the illusion that it has created that everything is possible for everyone. The implementation of the declaration of commitment signed between the Government and the trade unions will be under discussion from next Friday. We cannot anticipate the outcome of these negotiations, and much less because we do not have the actual data, we can propose, in a serious and sustainable way, a solution to the problem that has been created. In fact, that is a responsibility of the government. This government must also defend the principle of fairness and justice, with which the PSD is concerned and which has been absent, and must be concerned about the present and, above all, about the future. The PSD does not promise, in the opposition, what it does not know if it has the conditions to comply when it becomes government again. That is also what distinguishes us and the Portuguese know - well. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u364	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of this point. Let us then move on to the last point of our agenda, which consists in the joint assessment of petition No 256 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — They call for measures to be taken to resolve the precarious contractual situation of specialists in schools ( Ana Margarida Carvalho Maia et al.) and draft resolutions 1172 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — It proposes measures to combat the precariousness and effective recruitment of specialists in public school ( PCP ), 1173/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the establishment of recruitment groups corresponding to the teaching functions of specialized technicians ( PCP ), 1176 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Valuation and dignity of the specialized technicians of public schools ( BE) and 1179 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Combating contractual precariousness of specialists in public school ( The Greens ). Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u365	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like, from now on, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, to welcome the petitioners and those who are present today in the galleries to attend this discussion, as well as to welcome the fight that the specialized technicians have developed and that has been essential for the defence of their rights, a struggle with which the CFP has always been and solidarity. When we speak in specialized technicians we speak of a very large set of professionals, including psychologists, speech therapists, occupational therapists, physiotherapists, social workers, social educators, social educators, socio-educational animators, Portuguese gestual interpreters, and we also speak of technicians who perform teaching functions, teaching the most diverse disciplines in the areas of music, dance, arts and professional courses. There are thousands of specialists in schools who continue to be hired year after year, as if they were responding to transitional and temporary needs but satisfying, yes, permanent needs of schools. These workers have been in danger for years, many of them 10, 15, 20 years in this situation. They concluded a contract to then start another one, often filling out exactly the same vacancy of the previous school year. It adds to this situation the recurrent late placement in schools, harming these workers and also harming children and young people in schools who have the beginning of a school year negatively affected. It is therefore important to find a solution for these professionals who respect their labour rights. This year, the automatic renewal of specialized technical contracts has been authorised, but not for all specialist technicians, which means that it has actually fallen short of the needs, so it is important to resolve the situation for all, for the future and for the final. The CFP has intervened, in particular within the framework of PREVPAP (An extraordinary programme for the regularization of precarious links in public administration ) to find a response to the situation of specialized technicians, arguing that PREVPAP, being a party to combating precariousness and guaranteeing employment with rights in all public administration services, is an instrument that can and should also respond to this reality. We are again speaking today about the need to solve the problem of these workers. Thus, in order to respond to the reality of specialized technicians with teaching functions, we propose the creation of recruitment groups in the various disciplinary areas currently corresponding to teaching functions performed by these technicians, with a view, of course, to their linkage in the teaching career. For the other set of specialist technicians, we insist that measures be taken to integrate them into schools under PREVPAP and propose that conditions be created for effective recruitment of all specialists in appropriate numbers to meet the needs felt in schools. The integration and linkage of specialized technicians is indeed urgent. These workers are an integral and indispensable part of the public school and must be duly valued and respected in their rights. The PCP will be here to defend that. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u366	For an intervention, Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u367	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the petitioners and petitioners here present and tell them that they have been tireless in fighting for the quality of public school. These workers who signed this petition are psychologists, occupational therapists, speech therapists, physiotherapists, Portuguese gestual interpreters, cultural mediators, sociocultural animators, social educators, social workers, and are this and many other things within the school. What we should think about is this: in today's school, in the schools we have today, who is indispensable? Which of these professionals can abdicate the school of our children, our brothers or the school of our friends? In which school are these technicians not present, is it that we trust the people we like? What inclusive school exists, what intercultural school exists, what healthy school, what quality school exists without any of these professionals? None! We cannot abdicate from any of them for the simple reason that students in this school cannot abdicate from the skills and work they do at school. And we cannot abdicate neither today nor ever, because if students sometimes have transitional needs, because of the success of the intervention of professionals, and if these needs are to be confirmed transitional, that does not mean that in the future there are no other, new, intervention needs for which these professionals must always be attentive. So the system needs and will always need them, always. however, they are of the most precarious workers in public school, they are hired annually. For example, we have psychologists, like many other technicians, who have been hired annually for 20 years. Now, this has two problems: it has a problem for itself, which deserves a career, they deserve stability in their lives, they deserve rights at work, but it also has a problem for the students who accompany them. We must realize that it is a drama if a Portuguese Gesture Interpreter arrives too late at school to accompany the student who should already be studying and who does not have until the interpreter arrives. It's a drama for that student. But it's also a drama for a psychologist, a cultural mediator or a social educator who changes school every year and doesn't get to know the community. And working with families is often as important as working with students and meeting students is essential. That is why the stability of these technicians' links to school is so important. It is not up to us to see that PREVPAP (An extraordinary program of regularization of precarious links in public administration) does not integrate all technicians who are today precarious in school. We want to ensure for the future — and I will conclude, Mr President — that these technicians have access to two things: the right to career, with performance evaluation, with continuous training and appreciation of service time and also a standard of binding, as the teachers have, three successive contracts and a tender for binding. It's fair and it's necessary! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u368	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u369	Mr. President: It is in the public school's perspective as a centre of integral education for individuals and in the need for a work carried out with this aim that we should consider the importance of all its professionals. in this sense, The Greens, concerning petition no. 256 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) which is presented to the Assembly of the Republic and whose petitioners avail themselves of greeting on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Greens, have presented a draft resolution that aims, precisely, to combat the contractual precariousness of specialists in public school. The fight against precariousness is, of course, a matter that we have to deal with carefully. What should be an exception has become a rule and what is absolutely shocking is the way the State over time has been using this mechanism to provide the services it owes to its citizens. An example of this is the widespread precarious contractual situation to which specialized technicians in schools are subject. These specialized technicians include professionals as fundamental as psychologists, gestal-language interpreters, sociocultural and educational animators, social workers, speech therapists, occupational therapists, among others. Some of these technicians, ladies and gentlemen. Members, they have been working on a contract in the long run for 10 and 20 years. It is a sufficiently enlightening time of the undeniable permanent need that they assure but for which they have no suitable contract and bond. In fact, it is not possible to say that these professionals are guaranteeing temporary or punctual needs in our schools when they are placed year after year. The problem is that they are placed under the school contract, which is not, in fact, an appropriate contractual instrument for their duties. Of course, this creates enormous insecurity and instability in the lives of these professionals, and often it is also necessary to say that, they are put late at the beginning of each school year and at the end of each school year they are told the unemployment situation. When, in the academic year that now takes place, the Ministry of Education determined that schools and groupings could retrain the specialized technicians who were there, however, did not include a very significant number of these professionals, especially those who were placed late. For the vast majority of specialized school technicians to respond to those who correspond to teaching functions, it is to create a recruitment group in the areas that correspond to these functions to be applied in competition from teachers, as, moreover, the Assembly of the Republic has already recommended that it apply to teachers of the general language. However, in relation to all others, the Ministry has responsibilities to ensure a stable professional situation, taking into account those that are the permanent needs of schools, as I said.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u370	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u371	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. I would just like to draw the attention of the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greens draft resolution has three points for us.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u372	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u373	I will finish, Mr. President. I could choose now to make an appeal to the Bureau but I will not do it, I just wanted to clarify the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, to say that what counts for the purposes of what we are discussing is only point 3 of our draft resolution. Points 1 and 2 appear over time. That's where you ask the ladies. Members who, when it is time for the vote, take this matter into account.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u374	Mrs Susana Amador of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u375	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group the more than 4000 petitioners who have exercised the constitutional right of the petition exercise and who request that measures be taken to resolve the precarious contractual situation of specialists in schools. This petition was joined by a series of draft resolutions, the authorship of the Portuguese Communist Party, the Left Block and the Greens, which deal with this issue. The successive budgets of the State of the Socialist Government and the policies adopted for the replacement of incomes of families, for the fight against precariousness, for the extraordinary linkage of thousands of teachers, for the revision of the labour standard, among other measures, well reveal the paradigm change and the importance given to the quality and sustainability of the education system, the equity in access and compulsory education that cannot be alien to the valorization of human resources of the same system. We all know the importance of specialized technicians. They are fundamental to the quality of public school and to the promotion of the integration and success of students. Contrary to what happened to the previous Government, it is a commitment of the current Executive, through the Ministry of Education, to provide the necessary solutions to respond to the due recognition of these professionals, as well as the implementation and improvement of the mechanisms necessary for this purpose. That's what we're doing! Evidence of this was that the Ministry of Education guaranteed the timely placement of these technicians in the current school year, as requested in the petition, and the contracts of the specialized technicians who met the legal requirements to allow renewal were renewed, prevailing the stability and continuity of educational projects, always desirable. The 21st Government and the PS have set up as a major imperative the fight against precariousness, dignity of work and the creation of more and better jobs. It was in this perspective that the extraordinary linkage of more than 3000 teachers took place and in the coming year the linkage of more than 3,500, the regularization of the groups for the recruitment of music and dance and the completion of the process of the formation of the group for the recruitment of Portuguese gestual teachers, already in the pre-project of decree-law, has been prepared — even today the report of the working group has been known — and that results from a process of permanent dialogue of the government with trade union representatives. According to PREVPAP, public school specialists representing permanent needs will be linked under that Programme. in the case of specialized technicians with specialized teaching functions in the field of audiovisual and visual arts not covered by this Programme, they will be linked, as teachers, in the framework of the extraordinary external competition, to be negotiated with trade union structures. The public, universal and quality school that we defend and affirm daily needs of all who add it and add results in social and human areas and multiply student inclusion and integration responses. Therefore, we are, with the measures and solutions we have just mentioned, to value and to dignify consistently, consequently and fairly the specialized technicians of our schools. They're counting on us! They count on the Socialist Party! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u376	For an intervention, Mrs Ilda Araújo Novo, of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u377	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the CDS, I should like to congratulate the subscribers of the petition. It should be said that the CDS unequivocally values the role of non-teachers. He has done so before, in hearings and hearings on this matter. It is therefore natural to recognize and defend that a career and even the definition of its functional content will, above all, constitute a form of dignity. To dignify the professionals of education implies valuing their mission, defining their role. Non-teachers, hired as « specialized technicians », are subject to variable frameworks in each school. Some do the same teaching but are not considered identical in terms of terms of employment and status. The administrative rules governing teaching staff are not the same as specialized technicians. however, the hours of work are often similar, the evaluation meetings, the failure regime, the times of preparation of teaching materials, the non-formal school hours, even though they are separated from school to school, given the different areas of professional nature in which they perform their activity. They are considered and included in the category of « specialized technicians », often placed in school after the beginning of the school year. In addition to the alleged submission to non-uniform selection and recruitment procedures. The CDS Parliamentary Group has no doubt: it is necessary to find a solution for the timely placement of these technicians in schools, i.e. at the beginning of the school year, because it is necessary to seriously consider the negative impact of the delay in working with students, as well as so little will be to neglect the transparency of the selection procedure of these teachers. It is also important to consider a way of stabilizing these human resources in schools in view of the pedagogical continuity of their action. In this regard, the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens intended to present draft resolutions, each with their very particular vision of the matter. There are some common points that undoubtedly touch on some of these issues we have already mentioned. For the CDS Parliamentary Group, the reality resulting from the government's report on the precariousness and consequent proposal for regularization through PREVPAP — the Programme for the Extraordinary Regularization of Pre-Care Links in Public Administration — gives us the expectation that it can effectively contribute to ensuring the stability of these professionals. However, while paying attention to the opinions of some of the entities heard about this petition and the issues raised in it, we have found that the solutions proposed are very divergent. The answers that have emerged, which may be feasible, cannot, in our view, ignore the needs and specificities of each territory. And we must always bear in mind the objective of ensuring these more than 2000 technicians the best way to continue to provide quality public service, which is recognised. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u378	Mr Álvaro Batista, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u379	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I begin by congratulating the 4200 petitioners who, in a citizenship exercise, have magnificently exposed the hypocrisy of this government and of the parties who support it when they speak in precarious terms. Having seen the precariousness to be referred to since the beginning of the Legislature, you ask yourself: PS, PCP and Block wanted to end it? Don't! First they required a study to "make sure they did nothing". We ask: Was the study worth it? Don't! The study was wrong, because of the announced precariousness there was only one room. A room, but already counting on the precariouss created by the champion of precariousness, which is the current government, not the previous ones. It is noted that it is the government itself to confess that the precariouss have increased, says in the summary of the Public Employment of the Ministry of Finance, where it is read that between September 2015 and March 2017, only the future contracts have increased from 63 000 to 80 000. We are talking about another 16 000 precariouss of the responsibility of this government, only future contracts. Having received 28 000 regularization requirements, it is clear that the champion of the creation of precariouss, after all, is left. Mrs. Members of the PS, the PCP and the Block are not ashamed of the majority of the precariouss created by the current government that you support here? You should have, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. And they should also be ashamed to want to integrate, without competition, all the deficiencies that you have put into the state until May 3rd of this year—May 2017—because that is exactly what remained of the proposal for a law on regularization, which you have approved. One could think, "It's done, it's done", but the left ones "conformed" are sure that they will now solve the problem. It is all the more wrong, 'to wash and last', because the 'programme for regulating precarious links' is neither fast nor free. What the PSD says is that if there are illegal situations of precariousness in schools, these have to be resolved and quickly. There must be speed and there must be morality, not being admissible to treat in the same way the situations of real precariousness and those of the boys, those of the clients put in the state by the left until 3 May this year, because these are not true precarious, are the immorality with which the left is dealing, once again, those who want to believe in justice and equal rights. The petitioners and young people in this country deserve more: they deserve justice and equality!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u380	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u381	I'm done now, Mr. President. They deserve seriousness from the conchadas left. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u382	Mr, you need to take care of the adjectives that are used at every moment. « Undisclosed» is not an adjective which is often used in this Parliament, fortunately, I would say to the left or right. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u383	Not to call 'criminals'!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u384	Mr President, if you will allow me to answer, I have heard much worse in this plenary and no one has made any repairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-12-13.u385	Mrs. Members, we have reached the end of the joint debate on petition No 256 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) and draft resolutions 1172 / XIII ( 3. ( a ), 1173 / XIII ( 3. ( a ), 1176 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) and 1179 / XIII ( 3. ( a). The next plenary session will be held tomorrow at 3 p.m. and will have the following agenda item: the general assessment of Bill No 104/ XIII ( 3 ) is the first item. ( a ) — transposes the amendments introduced by Directive ( EU ) 2015 / 1794 to Directive 2001 / 23 / EC and Directive 2009 / 38 / EC as regards seafarers. in the second point, the proposed law No 105 / XIII ( 3 ) will also be assessed in general. (a) — Authorizes the Government to create the national system of vessels and seafarers. The third point is followed by the joint assessment of Bill No 106 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves measures to promote equal pay between women and men by equal or equal value, in general, of draft resolution No 1168 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the submission to Parliament of the new action plan on the promotion of equality in the labour market and the fight against wage inequalities ( PSD ), of Bill No 693 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves measures to promote equal pay for men and women by equal or equal value of work ( NAP), also in general, and draft resolutions Nos 1177 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures to promote equal pay for men and women by equal or equal value ( NAP) and 1181 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — To promote equal pay between women and men ( The Greens ). of the fourth point is the joint assessment, in general, of the projects of lein.os 667 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — 45. the amendment to the Criminal Code, qualifying the crime of murder committed under a dating relationship ( PSD ), 688 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Includes murder in the context of dating relationship in standard examples relating to the crime of qualifying homicide ( PAN ), 689 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Qualification of the murder crime committed in connection with a dating relationship ( 45. the amendment to the Penal Code ( CDS-PP ) and 690 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the Criminal Code, making the murder in the context of violence in the qualifying homicide ( BE). Finally, together and in general, the projects of lein.o 692 / XIII ( 3 ) will be appreciated. ( a ) — Done at 45. the amendment to the Penal Code, strengthening the legal-penal protection of journalists in the exercise of functions ( PS ) and 691 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the Criminal Code by making the attacks on journalists public in the performance of their duties or because of them ( BE ). We have thus come to an end, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 20 minutes.]]
