ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have quorum, so I declare open the sitting. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. There are no announcements to be made to the House, at least for now, so we can move on to the first item on our agenda, which, as you know, consists of political declarations, the first of which is the CDS-PP. I therefore give the floor to Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto. As the honourable Member addresses the rostrum, I would like to remind the parliamentary groups that registrations for requests for clarification should be made until the end of his speech, a procedure which I thank the honourable Members for. Ladies and gentlemen. Mrs. Member, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS has been closely monitoring the health situation. I have been afraid to do so through multiple initiatives in this House, field visits and reports that have come to us. Unfortunately, contrary to what some people want to believe, we have no reason to be calm and satisfied and there are many reasons for concern for the Portuguese. The debts of the SNS ( National Health Service ) to pharmacists and suppliers continue to increase at an increasing rate of over EUR 1 million per day. Only to Apifarma ( Portuguese Pharmaceutical Industry Association ), and according to the latest figures we know in March 2017 the debt of hospitals was more than EUR 890 million. In order not to mention the increase in sales to storage, a residual mechanism so far and that the suppliers themselves have reported to have increased by 40 %. It is not enough to say that it is normal to have debts in the SNS, that the problem is underfinancing. Debts undermine, and much, the functioning of the SNS, the functioning of many small and medium-sized enterprises and access to health care. Action needs to be taken. [[CDS-PP applause.]] There are reports of the cancellation of dozens of surgeries due to the lack of anesthetists in hospitals that, right here in the district of Lisbon, work with contingency plan, performing only emergency surgeries. There are reports of lack of basic material at a high percentage of the USF ( Family Health Unit ). in the area of mental health, it is the associations of patients themselves to say that the so-called pilot experiments do not come true and do not see increased access of patients to this much-needed response. No obsolete equipment is restored and no replacement is required. It is factual that the cancellation and subsequent postponement of supplementary diagnostic examinations, including imaging examinations in cancer patients, clearly compromises its surveillance plan. Hospitals in the West stop treatment to cancer patients due to lack of minimum conditions, with commitment to access to the care they need. We are clearly faced with uninvestment in the SNS and, contrary to what the government is anxious to proclaim, access to health care is compromised. No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, it's not all right in health! And, at the end of a year and a half of your governance, you have to take responsibility. [[CDS-PP applause.]] But we're not talking only about the limitation on access to health care. Human resources in health are unhappy — doctors and nurses have been on strike, still for days, seeing that there have been problems reported for more than a year, and they speak of a « Minister for Public Relations», a minister who makes promises and does not comply, a minister who, despite his recognized sympathy and competence, cannot, together with the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance, overcome the serious problems faced by the health sector. The professionals, who know reality and care about the situation of their patients, are not satisfied. They have legitimate reasons to complain much more than promises, to claim responsibility and concrete answers, which are already taking place by this government. We did not have access to health care being compromised, we also have the questions of dissatisfaction of professionals, the issues of lack of investment, the underfinancing of the sector, which persists, watching cuts in spending and investment in health, in view of what was even budgeted. at the end of a year and a half, the government and the banks that support it cannot continue to do political juggling and tell the Portuguese that everything is good in health. They cannot even point their finger to what is wrong, to try to satisfy their supporters, but then do not remove effective political consequences and not be consistent with what they promised. It will be worth remembering here that, in the rhetorics of other times and much less, what we heard from these benches was to talk about destruction, dismantling and disinvestment, which also deserved noisy protests at the door of health centers and hospitals. Where are those now? Can the Portuguese count on them? More: don't want to, ladies. Members and Members of Parliament, persist in telling the Portuguese that what is good happens in this period of time is your merit and that the serious problems that the reality of health evidence is always the fault of the past and that nothing concerns you. Enough of « pass blame game», the Portuguese do not let themselves be forgotten. For the CDS, it is time for the government to assume responsibilities, it is time to show that they know how to govern, with concrete and effective answers to the most vulnerable. Enough promises that are not fulfilled, enough delaying our hope. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u3	To ask questions to Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, four Mrs are registered. Ladies and gentlemen. In the meantime, the Bureau was informed that the honourable Member will respond to the first two requests for clarification and then to the other two. That is why Mr Luís Graça has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto brings us here, once again, the debate on health and starts with debt. Mrs Debt, the debt is in line with the approved budget plan and what separates us from the last four years on the right is that the four years of PSD/CDS government are characterized by the deviation: budget deviation, debt deviation, deviation in social indexes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u6	And this has been the time to meet, fulfill the budget goals, fulfill the debt and invest in improving health care. This has been the big difference in the last year and a half. And the 2% deficit was not a miracle, it was the result of the Portuguese effort and the government's work. unlike the PSD and the CDS, which, when they were in the government, complained about the unions and found all the unfair strikes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u7	Now until they say hello!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u8	... the Socialist Party and the Government consider that the strike is a fundamental right in democracy. And in this case the strike of doctors is even a justifiable right, in many of the claims they bring here. From then on, because between 2011 and 2015, not being doctors the most disadvantaged class, they were one of the most whipped classes by the governance of the PSD and CDS. From 2011 to 2015, Portugal was one of the countries of the European Union that have further reduced public spending on health, it is said, contrary to the rest of Europe. These cuts in health left very deep marks in doctors, of course, but also in nurses and particularly in Portuguese. Surely you can't rest one day what the right cut in four years.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u10	Oh! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u11	Still, the Ministry of Health guaranteed the replacement of the value of extraordinary time, with retroactive effect on 1 April, which had been reduced by VV. Ex. 50 %;...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u12	You've reached your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u13	...has already guaranteed several measures, is open to dialogue and has renegotiated with doctors. Mrs Isabel Galriça Neto, the question I want to ask you is the following: if the CDS no longer cares about the strict management and sustainability of the SNS, as it defended in the past, and today comes here to defend, I do not say 20 metro stations for Lisbon but to give everything, and all at the same time, that is, to make rain in the nabal and sun in the air simultaneously? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u14	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor also to put questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u15	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to greet Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto on the subject that brings us. Madam Member, my first word is of surprise to the content of your political statement, because it frightens you to hear the CDS-PP talk about under-financing and de-investment in the area of health. Perhaps you do not remember, but I can ask you whether you remember that the CDS-PP voted, for example, a State Budget for 2012 which provided a reduction of EUR 639 million for the National Health Service, or you remember that you voted the 2014 Budget, for example, which provided a further reduction of EUR 219 million for the National Health Service. Therefore, to come now to talk about de-investment and underfunding can only be a public declaration that the CDS-PP only serves this country when it is sitting there, in opposition. It is that when you are in the government, you really don't serve this country. And now, Mrs Deputy could also explain in this debate to Portuguese and Portuguese, if she is so concerned with de-investment and underfunding, why the CDS-PP abstained in a draft resolution of the Left Block that proposes a multi-year commitment to greater investment in the National Health Service. See what this project of the Left Block said : «... that a commitment is made and presents a multiannual plan for the increase of funding to the National Health Service...». How did the CDS-PP vote? Stay away from me! The project also said: ‘...in the framework of this multiannual plan, investments for intervention in buildings and acquisition of equipment for the SNS...’. How did the CDS-PP vote? Stay away from me! And why? Because, really, at the base is a great difference in how to face and deal with the National Health Service. It is that the CDS-PP, both in the past and now, looks at the National Health Service, detects a subfinance and has as a solution cut and privatization. The Left Block detects a subfinance and has as its proposal the increase in funding and growth of the National Health Service. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u16	In reply, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u17	Mr President, I would like to thank you for your questions. Mr Luís Graça and Mr Moisés Ferreira, my colleagues from the Health Committee, and tell Mr Luís Graça that it is always good to talk about health.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u18	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u19	Therefore, the CDS has spoken countless times and, Mr, does not lose hope, because we will continue to follow and talk about this theme, because it is relevant to the Portuguese. I believe that it is not a nice subject neither for Mr. Deputies nor for the Government,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u20	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u21	...but, despite that, we will continue to talk about it. I wanted to tell you that the CDS is indeed very proud of what you've been doing, because it was in a government that paid millions of debts that you left...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u22	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u23	... and obviously tried to leave the National Health Service with a health that you cannot say today exists. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[PS protests.]] In fact, we cannot fail to be surprised when Mr Graça says that it is normal to have debt, that it is normal not to pay and you are satisfied with it. Therefore, companies or institutions in the sector have to live with a debt that is growing, contrary to what happened in our governance, which has been reducing it. You live well with the debt and even announce that you won't pay it. But there is one thing that is important for you and for Mr Moisés Ferreira: you really have to understand. They were government two years ago,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u24	A year and a half! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u25	...for two years they have the responsibility and the possibility to take action. What do we watch? When we grow, what's great for the country, whose merit is it? It's yours! When we have serious health problems, whose fault is it? It's from the past! [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, your problem is really growing.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u26	That's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u27	Grow up! They grow up, they become mature, they are in the government, because in fact your problem is that they do not take responsibility for what governance is. Finally, Mr Moisés Ferreira, what we wanted to say is that it should not be with the CDS that you have to articulate, I think it is more with the benches that I can support this government. With regard to the questions he raises, I propose that he discuss them with the doctors and nurses who have been on strike for weeks, because they accused this Minister of having made the Minister of Public Relations over a year, of not responding to the legitimate aspirations that we are no longer in the period of financial assistance, we would have the opportunity to respond differently. Therefore, I challenge you to hear what doctors and nurses say, such human resources that you said would be perfectly satisfied... No, you are not, Mr! And we need to hear what they tell us, because they are close to the patients and because, indeed, there are conditions today to end a problem that you say exists, which is that of underfinancing. You have budgeted health money that you have failed to meet, and this is underfunding, which you have made worse. Health can't count on your benches. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u28	For a second round of questions, Mr Luís Vales has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u29	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, I would like to begin by welcoming her for the opportunity of her political statement. In fact, contrary to what has been propagated by the government and by the parties that support it, our SNS lives in troubled times. The investment was cut by 34 % in 2016, and in these first three months of the year more than 20 % fell. The acquisition of goods and services in public hospitals was reduced and the hospital offer did not increase in 2016. Mrs. Members, in four years of full economic and financial crisis in Portugal the former Government built seven SNS hospitals. The expense of SNS with professional doctors was the highest in the last three years. From north to south of the country, the degradation of health services increases and spending with PPPs (public-private partnerships) in health is increasing. This government ended with the experience of the family nurse and the share of generic drugs stagnated. The response of emergency care services worsened. Only in the last year were 9705 calls lost due to the delay in attending INEM. In March of this year, late payments in SNS hospitals increased 157 million compared to 2016. It is that, in a year and a half, the PS, and its allies, did more than a third of the road to the disaster that led the SNS six years ago. Mrs. Members, if in 2015 SNS debt to Apipherma was EUR 625 million, in March this year it is already EUR 892 million, and what is truly dramatic, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, only more than 300 million euros are needed to reach the unsustainable situation that we arrived in 2011. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, tomorrow two PSD resolution projects will be voted on in this Chamber to recommend to the Government to increase investment and reduce SNS debt and reduce recourse to occupational doctors. Madam Member, I ask you the following: how will the CDS vote on these draft resolutions, thus showing the Government, the Socialist Party and its allies, who support you here in this House, that it is time for the government to catch up on its way or, then, will they continue to destroy, dismantle and disinvest in the SNS? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u30	For a question, Mr. João Ramos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u31	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, you started your speech by referring to the visits that the CDS has made to various health units. Certainly, during your visits, you had the opportunity to verify the effects of the policy that you and the CDS have practiced and that you have defended in the health units. On the subject of the debt you brought here, the CFP has recently put this concern here, in particular the effects it can have on small and medium-sized companies providing the National Health Service and on the capacity to respond to health units. But the honourable Member does not want to talk about underfunding, and she said right after the rostrum that it was not worth talking about. Yes, Mrs Deputy, the debt is due precisely to underfunding and we are not surprised that Mrs Deputy does not want to talk about it because the CDS has strong responsibilities in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u32	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u33	The underfinancing of the National Health Service is chronic throughout successive governments, but was greatly increased by the PSD and the CDS. The transfers that the PSD and the CDS have made to private units do not go away from the problem of underfinancing and the problems of the National Health Service. The honourable Member has now come here to talk about health professionals when they have increased working hours using free work, when they have reduced wages, when they have pushed professionals into emigration. I give you here the example of radiology technicians, which put problems in the IPO because technicians went abroad. The honourable Member is speaking — and very well, it is worth it — in the strikes of doctors, operational assistants and many professionals who are on strike and whose demands are very fair, but what is the answer to their demands is also included in the State budget, which, by chance, the CDS did not approve, against which it voted, and which allowed the resolution of these problems. That is why what is also required is that it be fulfilled and that the government should put these matters in order.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u34	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u35	I will finish, Mr President, by saying that it sounds a little fake that the CDS is now talking about concerns with professionals when it did all this. Mrs. Member, of course it's not all right in health, for many years it's not all right in health, and so investment is needed...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u36	It really needs to be done.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u37	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, investment is necessary and to do so it is necessary to face the constraints of the European Union, of debt, and these are not available for you to deal with. what does the CDS regret that it led the National Health Service to the situation in which it is? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u38	In reply, Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Luís Vales and Mr João Ramos, I am grateful for the questions you have asked and I would like to say to Mr Luís Vales, as I said from the gallery, that only those who do not want to see are who deny the current serious problems of the National Health Service : it is in access, it is in underfinancing, that it is not corrected, it is in dissatisfaction with professionals, it is in increasing indebtedness. Obviously, we will vote in favour of your proposals, because what we expect is that those who are in government and assume their responsibilities. Mr. João Ramos made several comments, but I really liked to challenge speaking to the medical strikers and nurses who are with the patients...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u40	Now! Crocodile tears!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u41	We've been there with them!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u42	... and remove effective political consequences from that presence that you say you have.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u43	We've been there with them!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u44	This is because what I wanted to tell you, if you let me continue, is that these strikers are actually waiting for your replies and your government, the government that you support. [[CDS-PP applause.]] So don't ask us questions when you are in government, you have power! They cannot, on the second, Wednesday and Friday, submit proposals from which they have no consequences and then vote alongside the Government on what has to do with maintaining conditions that, over a year, the Minister for Public Relations has not been able to solve, much less to engage the Prime Minister and the Minister for Finance in solving these same problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u45	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u46	I therefore conclude by saying that you support the government and that your bench has difficulty explaining to the Portuguese that a few days is yours, in other days it is no longer, that is, the day when everything goes well and there is growth is yours, the merit is yours, in the days when there are health problems you wash your hands like Pilate and there they are no longer from the government. What are we in, Mr. Deputies? What are we staying on? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u47	For a political declaration, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u48	Mr President, Members : In the 21st century, in 2017, the wealth of the eight richest men on the planet is equivalent to the income of the 3, 6 billion poorest people in the world. This gruesome aberration has nothing again. in fact, poverty and exploitation have nothing of a modern nature, perhaps even more than the millennium exists in the history of humanity, and that is why the fight is so urgent and current. The scientific and technological advances that mankind has known have not had as a first objective nor a direct translation in improving the living conditions of millions of human beings around the world. Therefore, the question we ask is who has served the significant evolution of science and technology. in the service of whom have been the surprising scientific and technological discoveries of the last decades and centuries? What is its impact on a fairer distribution of wealth, on reducing working hours, on improving living conditions? After more than 131 years of the first May 1, the struggle for the fixing of 8 hours of work and the reduction of working hours is an incredible moment. Unbelievably unhappy, actually. This was the claim that it was the basis of the creation of a new working day, which constituted the historical framework of a more just society. The capital never accepted this civilizational advance and created archdulous instruments to remove the law: it transformed the entire normal working period into effective working time; it eliminated pauses; it imposed various flexibilitys and increased the intensity and working rhythms. Today, the working hours, their fixation and compliance, respect for rest times, their payment and compensation conditions and the link with family, personal and professional life take on a huge deal. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, last Monday, the CFP held a parliamentary hearing, largely attended, on "Working hours: combating deregulation, 35 hours, respecting rights". The reports of workers and their representative organizations prove that these subjects are one of the targets of greatest attack by the patronage. In addition, the reports clearly confirm who used the changes to labour legislation promoted by the PSD/CDS government in 2012. Following this competitive cycle, successive changes to labour legislation have always resulted in the degradation of workers' rights, corroding new concepts, which only recover old ideas of dehumanization of work (adaptives, hour banks, among others). Today, in our country, about 75% of workers are affected by the adaptability of hours, the abuse of shiftwork and nightwork, the generalization of disrespect and the extension of schedules, with profound negative consequences. Examples are loud: in the mines of Somincor, in Castro Verde, there are administrative pressures to impose concentrated hours of 12 hours of work in the basement, in Tyco and Kemet, in Évora, where for several years the 12 hours of daily work have been practiced, the administration of Kemet imposes the marking of holidays on a concentrated regime and six days of free work, even after the conviction of the Evora Court. in the REN Group, where there is a lack of workers for full performance of shifts, the right to compulsory rest is denied and the schedules are organised for five years, obliging workers to permanent instability. in the National Siderurgia, in the Sixal, the administration imposes 12 hours of daily work, including on Saturday and Sunday, with reflection on the increase of work accidents, physical and psychological wear of workers, dismissals and subsequent subcontracting through temporary work companies. in the area of hotel and restaurant, in many workplaces the minimum rest times are not respected, there are workers coming out of the workplace at 1 hour in the morning and coming back to work soon the next morning, 6 and 7 hours. in Lisnave Yards, in Setúbal, workers are obliged to provide 1800 hours of effective work, divided into two semesters, where 270 hours in the adaptability regime are provided from Monday to Saturday, but also on holidays, which can go up to 15 days of weekly rest and supplement without any increase in pay. in the context of the National Health Service the lack of professionals, especially nurses, leads to unacceptable situations, where thousands of hours of rest are due to these workers. in cleaning companies, the imposition of 35 hours per week is a file not to guarantee the payment of the minimum wage and its increases. in fact, Mr. President, Mr. Members, the increase in working hours is directly proportional to the increase in profits of the economic groups. It is urgent to combat the deregulation of working hours. It is urgent to ensure respect for their daily and weekly limits, to ensure two days of rest per week, and to revoke the hourly banks, adaptability, concentrated hours and to combat the prolongation of the daily journey with the abuse of extraordinary work. It is urgent to ensure 35 hours for all workers, whether in the Public Administration or in the private sector, by reducing working hours to 35 hours a week without any loss of pay or other rights, in the private sector, as a contribution to creating jobs and combating unemployment. It is urgent to strengthen workers' rights by shift. It is unacceptable to place scientific and technological advances at the service of the country's growth and development, the reduction of working hours and penosity.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u49	You've reached your time, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u50	I will finish, Mr. President. It is urgent to put science and technology at the service of not the profits of a minority but the living conditions of the majority. It is urgent to transform technological achievements into social achievements. The CFP does not give up this fight and knows that the workers and the people do not either. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u51	Mrs Rita Rato, the Bureau has registered, to request clarifications from four Members. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u52	Two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u53	Thus, you have the floor, first of all, Mrs Maria das Mercês Soares.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u54	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I should like to begin by congratulating Mrs Rita Rato of the Portuguese Communist Party on bringing this issue up to debate, a subject which is true to say, that the CFP always brings the debate and that, in a few days, has already been debated several times, either in plenary or in Commission. [[PCP protests.]] Take it easy, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen. Take it easy! However, Mrs Rita Rato, let me remind you that you are in government. Whoever was listening to you and didn't know, I'd think they were in opposition. They're not opposition, they're power! They're part of power!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u55	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u56	You are a case of failure at school!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u57	Let's decide! You know why? It is that, yesterday, in committee, they asked Mr Minister this question. What was your partner's response? It was precisely the following: « We will not move, nor will we change labour legislation ». So what do you want? What are they? Oh, my God! Are they or aren't they a coalition? Oh, my God! Do you understand or do you not understand? Oh, my God! Or is it always «the struggle continues», whether they are in power, whether they are on the street? Oh, my God! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u58	You still don't get it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u59	If you were told that you would not change the legislation, what do you want with this political number?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u60	It's just making the number!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u61	They only want to tell the workers "look, we are in the government but we are not, it is an account, because we will continue to slaughter and always say the same"? Oh, my God! Or, then, it's more complicated. Do they simply intend to imprison the Socialist Party and condition it so that, in the name of power and to preserve it, they will come to favor what they want? Oh, my God! For us, workers deserve our respect.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u62	You want to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u63	What was done was at the heart of social consultation. If you want to change, change in this plan, in consultation, something that the PCP, the CGTP (General Confederation of Portuguese Workers) and others do not consider, respect and do not value. For us, it's worth a lot. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u64	Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u65	Mr President, Mrs Rita Rato, I begin by resting Mrs Maria das Mercês Borges. Madam Member, let me rest it: no one imprisons the Socialist Party. The PS is a party to freedoms and is a party to freedom in the political conduct of its strategy and its political orientation in and out of this Parliament. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Rice from PSD MP Maria das Mercês Borges.]] I congratulate Mrs Rita Rato on the topic which she brings here today, a very important issue and which is of fundamental concern to what should be the priority that all political parties should have in this House: dignity. The dignity of people and work is at the forefront of any other values, it is at the forefront of the values of profit, it is at the front of the values of inequality in wage accumulation, it is at the forefront of inequality in what represent irregular working hours, lack of employment contracts, lack of collective bargaining, lack of regulation. We know that this dignity has been violated over four years by the PSD/CDS government and have done so in various ways. They have done - by cutting wages directly and indirectly, they have done - by attacking unions - still today, the Deputy Assumption Cristos spoke of the institutionalization of the cou by the unions in the plans for regulating precariouss in the Public Administration -,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u66	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u67	... did so by weakening the collective bargaining, they did it by extending the range and deadlines for term contracts and to pre-empt, thus reducing unemployment benefit benefits and the extent of our social protection system. With this, they have not solved any productivity problems in our economy. With this, they have aggravated the dualization of our labour market. With this, they condemned more than a generation to limbo of precariousness and hell of false green receipts. We know what we are doing and we know that we are well inverting the course that was followed by the previous government. We know that the right, in opposition, continues to resonate with the strategy that followed when he was in government. That is why, in view of reality, he continues to talk about his propaganda rather than what is actually happening in the country. Today, we know that we have to regulate, we know that we have to intervene in the labour market to prevent precariousness, because there is no emancipation with less social rights and less labour rights. Precautionaryness is a limited absence of freedom, it is a lack of rights and it is a lack of capacity to assert individual rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u68	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u69	I shall finish by stressing the work we are doing in the fight against precariousness in the public administration with the PREVPAP ( Programme for the Extraordinary Regularization of Precincts ), and stress how we can thus give an indication to the private sector that there can be no good precariousness and that a permanent need must correspond to a contract of work. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u70	In reply, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you for your questions. Mrs Maria das Mercês Borges, having asked no questions, we are not surprised that on the situation of the Siderurgia or Lisnave, which by chance are even companies in the district by which the honourable Member was elected, said zero.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u72	Lisnave's safe!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u73	But it wasn't by any chance that I said zero. It is that the PSD and CDS were responsible for changes to labour legislation that had an impact on the lives of those workers that we heard on Monday. She therefore preferred to bring here other ideas which she considers to be brilliant but on the answer to concrete problems she did not say anything. Madam Member, it is unacceptable that the last amendment to the labour legislation that you have promoted, facilitated and offered to the employer aimed at replacing workers with rights by workers without rights. That was the goal.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u74	Make another proposal!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u75	on Monday, the CFP heard the workers say—and this confirms the fairness of our proposal—that, rather than more time and less pay, more wages and less time are needed. And the proposal we have put forward to combat precariousness and to reduce working hours is decisive. The revocation of the hourly banks, adaptability and concentrated schedules are proposals which the CFP has given to this House and which it wants to see discussed and approved. Madam Member, we are not surprised that the PSD and the CDS do not say anything about the issues of precariousness. It is that precariousness was the political option of the last amendment to the Labour Code, which came to replace contracts with rights by contracts without rights. That is why the CFP's commitment is to ensure, also at the level of the Assembly of the Republic, that political measures are taken and that it is the Assembly of the Republic that has to take, because the PSD and the CDS always stand behind social consultation. [[PSD protests.]] Whoever has to make political choices is the Assembly of the Republic, it is not social consultation. The Assembly of the Republic has every power to decide on changes to labour legislation. So the CFP will be here in this fight.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u76	For us, it's not a cattle fair!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u77	Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro, on this subject I would like to say that the CFP has proposals which he wants to see discussed because he believes that the words must correspond to acts.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u78	Oh, yeah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u79	The fight against precariousness must therefore have concrete measures to fulfil this commitment. from the PCP, another important step has been taken within the framework of the Public Administration, but it is necessary to go further, particularly within the private sector. For this reason, we will be here to repeal more serious rules of the Labour Code that facilitate and promote precariousness but that do not guarantee dignified living conditions and therefore that is the contribution of the CFP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u80	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u81	Mr President, Mrs Rita Rato, I welcome the subject that brought the debate, but I must say that I cannot congratulate or accompany...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u82	Stay for the next one!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u83	...the tone and much less the content of your intervention, which clearly seemed to us out of time and inadequate. Mrs Rita Rato made a political statement in which she is allegedly concerned about the situation of the workers, but she starts from the outset by attacking the capital.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u84	Are you referring to Karl Marx? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u85	Now, does the honourable Member think that there are some Portuguese people who consider it to be attacking the job-creating capital, opening up businesses, dynamising the economy, defending what the workers need most right now in our country? Oh, my God! Does the honourable Member think that there is a country in Europe and in the world that achieves a gain for workers in this way? Oh, my God! No, Mrs Deputy, your vision is completely outdated, and I believe that not even some of the unions that support your party position can see themselves in this position. In addition, she made a political statement lamenting the interventions of the previous Government, saying that they attacked labour legislation and that this meant a major attack on workers. Madam Member, this happened at a time when the unemployment rate was falling and job creation was increasing. And what did you say at that time? They said: « This will mean an increase in the unemployment rate, that is the end of workers' rights ». What now? Oh, my God! And now where are they? Oh, my God! [[Protests by MP of PCP Rita Rat.]] Mrs. Deputy, you're wrong! More, Madam Member: if these claims you have invoked here are so important, why did you not include them in the coalition agreement with the current government? Why is it silent that this government is putting that agenda aside? Why did the CFP, in the last legislative agenda in which it presented proposals — and the honourable Member was present — not all those proposals?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u86	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u87	Why, Mrs. Deputy? Because, in fact, not even the honourable Member believes deeply in what you are saying here, and still well. That is good news for the Portuguese, because they will not actually move into labour law. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u88	Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u89	Mr President, Mrs Rita Rato, it was on Thursday 1890 that about 8,000 workers paraded and crossed the city of Lisbon to the Cemetery of the Prazers to defend a simple idea in front of the statue of José Fontana: 8 hours a day at most. That is, limit working hours and have time to live. However, more than 100 years have passed since that date, there has been much technological progress, there has been much increase in productivity but has not been converted into a proportional reduction in working time. There are even many situations in which, today, Portuguese work more than 8 hours a day. And what happened in the troika years was the reverse of the limitation of working time, it was a deregulation of working hours. With the amendments to the Labour Code made in 2012 there were basically two movements and two objectives: on the one hand, to increase the unpaid working time through the cut of the four holidays, compensatory rest and holidays; on the other hand, to lower the price of the paid work, either at the level of compensation, or to reduce the amount paid for the additional work or on the day of the holiday. This embarassment of the value of work not only meant a huge transfer of workers' wealth to capital, it also meant a policy to attack employment. In Portugal there are more than 13 million overtime hours per year, corresponding to more than 60 000 jobs. I therefore welcome the intervention and the subject which the CFP brought here and tell Mrs Rita Rato that today we have immense challenges. Let us reverse the cuts of holidays but we need to return to the workers the time that was stolen from them with the elimination of three days of holiday or compensatory rest. We need to « destroy» the Labour Code, which rests on the values of overtime, because this is a fundamental dimension of the recovery of income, and we need to relaunch collective bargaining, move in the bank of hours and respond to new realities such as those resulting from shiftwork, which we have already had a debate on, or the informal extension of the working time through technological devices and by defending the duty of professional disconnection by companies. We need to reduce working time so that we can create jobs and distribute the jobs that exist. It is around time, it continues to be around time and, in particular, about working time, which play the main civil challenges. It is on behalf of those who, in the past, have defended the limitation of working time and those who work today and have the right to have time to live that we do this fight. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u90	In reply, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u91	Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the questions raised. Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia said that it is not attacking the capital that favours the workers, but Mr Deputies, it is attacking the workers who favor the capital. And the truth is that the last few years have shown this very clearly. in the last amendments to the Labour Code there was not one measure, Mr President. — to encourage workers. They all aimed to become pregnant and facilitate dismissals, to cut into extraordinary work, to cut three days' vacation, to cut four holidays, to give a week's work to the bossate, to increase working hours, to make it difficult to connect family life and personal life. And, Mr President, there are no major doubts! In fact, it seems clear to us, and even of life, that this bench is not on the same side as us, that it cannot accompany us in the content, because the PSD and the CDS are responsible for a revision of the Labour Code which has put labor relations at an unacceptable level, deeply fragile for the workers, and therefore more admires us that a Christian democrat does not care about the articulation of family life and professional life.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u92	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u93	We are concerned that a Christian democrat does not have such concerns when I gave examples of several companies with 12 hours of daily work here. Where's the family? Where is the CDS' birth policy, when they live well with 12 hours of work? Oh, my God! [[PCP applause.]] Where is the discourse of birth, the importance of the family, when what they promote every day is the destruction of the families of others?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u94	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u95	It is the destruction of those who do not have the conditions to accompany their children, who do not have the conditions to follow their family life. That is why it is very clear to us that, in fact, what it costs the CDS and the PSD is to understand a path of development in the country that foresees the existence and strengthening of workers' rights. You don't agree with this. You do not agree with the fact that our Constitution guarantees and takes part in the rights of workers. You do not agree with the fact that our Constitution provides that there is a weaker part of the working relationship that needs to be protected. We're admiring this too! It must also have been why the CDS voted against the Constitution in 1976. So this is just consistency! [[PCP applause.]] on our part, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very coherent that we continue to beat ourselves for 8 hours a day. The PSD recently said that the PCP brings back the questions of working hours. Mr. Member, would you like us to bring what? Oh, my God! If the questions of schedules and wages are the ones that mark people's daily lives, if they are the ones that most create difficulties in their lives,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u96	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u97	...if they are the ones who create the most difficulties to their subsistence conditions, would you like us to talk about what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u98	We wanted more action! More action!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u99	Working hours are crucial. Respect for working hours is crucial. That is why the replacement of 35 hours of work in the Public Administration, which cost both the PSD and the CDS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u100	That they voted against!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u101	Now you are power, more than talk, do it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u102	... was achieved, it was because there was a change in the correlation of forces in the Assembly of the Republic, but today the public administration workers would be working 40 hours a week. It was also important that we defeated the PSD/CDS government. That's enough! It's all done, isn't it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u103	Just talk, talk, do!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u104	It takes a lot more than that, but, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u105	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u106	Finally, Mr President, saying that for us too, it is very clear that for everything that needs to be done for the development of the country, we cannot count on the PSD and the CDS, we count on the workers and the people and we know that this path must be done. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u107	Let us now move on to a new political statement, giving the floor to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u108	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Unfortunately, it is not for the best reasons that the Greens bring back the theme of the Almaraz nuclear power plant to the plenary of the Assembly of the Republic. The recent history is a very simple one: the Almaraz nuclear power plant should have already closed at least in 2010 ; in the previous governments of this country there was no firm position and, if we had to qualify it, eventually we would qualify it - as indifferent to this matter of the closure of the Almaraz nuclear power plant ; the Spanish government has already postponed the operation of this nuclear power plant by 2020 and the longer it is obsolete this nuclear power plant is. However, there was and there is a project for the construction of a temporary landfill for nuclear waste at the Almaraz nuclear power plant, clearly with cross-border impacts, but the Portuguese Government was neither had nor found by the Spanish Government regarding this project. For this reason, the Portuguese Government has opened a complaint with the European Union, to be duly heard and to have a study on environmental impacts in Portugal. In the meantime, there was a European Union, and an agreement was established between the Portuguese Government and the Spanish Government for a technical re-analysis to promote a public consultation on the impact of this project in Portugal. This technical report has been produced, and here you and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the end of the work. And why? This is because this technical report concludes that landfill is safe and appropriate. However, it is the report itself that there are essential issues that have not been studied, such as permeability tests, which have been conducted in very small numbers and which have not been carried out, even on a continuous basis. The report assumes that there may have been no adequate characterization on the permeability of soils, which has not been detailed characterization of underground aquifers, and says that the opinion of the Nuclear Security Council identified gaps in matters that may be relevant in the consideration of potential impacts, including on Portuguese territory. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, The Greens ask: in view of these objective and clear considerations, how can one come to the contradiction of claiming that this project is, then, safe and appropriate? So, Mr. Members, The Greens have taken the initiative to call the Government and the APA (Portuguese Environment Agency) to the Committee on the Environment, Land Planning, Decentralisation, Local Power and Housing so that they can provide clarification on this matter, because one thing is the technical report, another is the political position to take before the reality it is created. What we have heard in the Committee on the Environment is, in the perspective of the Greens, deeply worrying, in particular what we have heard by the members of the Government, either by the Minister for Foreign Affairs or by the Minister for the Environment. And why? Because the Government reaffirms its position of rest with the technical report that has been presented. Therefore, and there is no other way of saying, the Government is preparing to validate the construction of nuclear waste landfill near the Portuguese border. On the other hand, we all know that this landing may have implications for the prolongation of the operation of the Almaraz nuclear power plant. Now, what we needed was for the Portuguese Government to be determined either in demand or in a very clear position before the Spanish Government to defend the closure of the Almaraz nuclear power plant, but the Government was never able to state with this clarity, particularly at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment. What Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs has repeated is that the Government will seek to influence other countries for new energy policies and options, based on renewable energy sources. This is not clear, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! The Government has never been able to say periodically that everything will be done with the Spanish Government to put an end to the closure of the Almaraz nuclear power plant, which affects the Portuguese territory, which affects the Portuguese population and our ecosystems, at most in 2020. If you remember, ladies and gentlemen. Members, The Greens questioned Mr. Prime Minister during the last half-year debate on this issue, saying that the Government could no longer « stand on a wall » on the issue of the closure of the Almaraz nuclear power plant. What did Mr. Prime Minister say? Nothing! Absolutely nothing!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u109	He fell off the wall!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u110	And this would, in the perspective of the Greens, be the only way to defend the country's interest, i.e. to defend the closure of the Almaraz nuclear power plant. There are, therefore, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, a firm struggle must continue to be waged. I would also like to tell you very quickly that the Greens have been collecting, in a campaign that has promoted, a series of postcards, already in significant numbers, addressed to the Portuguese Government and also to the Spanish Government, in order to ensure that the Portuguese citizens are an active voice of pressure for the closure of the Almaraz nuclear power plant.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u111	Madam Member, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u112	I will now finish, Mr President. Citizens have been very receptive to this campaign and therefore this requirement will be made very firm with the delivery of these postcards to the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u113	You really have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u114	But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow this House of the Republic must strengthen its position by returning to voting again, which in a very unequivocal way determines the will of the Assembly of the Republic towards the closure of the nuclear power plant in Almaraz. We have to be very firm, very vicious. The Assembly of the Republic is not a resonance box of the Government and has an obligation not only to monitor but also to pressure. [[Applause from The Greens and Members of the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u115	First of all, I would recommend again to the parliamentary groups that they should not forget to register until the end of the speech of the speaker concerned. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I inform you that four Mrs have been registered. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u116	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u117	Mr. João Torres has the floor, then.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u118	Mr President, first of all, I congratulate Mrs Heloísa Apolónia on the intervention she has just spoken and I would like to convey, on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group, that it is obvious, of course and of course, that we would all live better without the existence of nuclear power stations, both in Spain and in Europe, and in any country in the world. We recognize the sensitivity of this issue, which is particularly sensitive, because it mobilizes fear and fear in people, and should therefore deserve the best attention from the Assembly of the Republic. As citizens and representatives of the Portuguese people, I believe that we must recognize that it is not up to the Portuguese Government to approve or authorize the construction of a landfill in Spain. We all wish that the Almaraz nuclear power plant, which has been active since the 1980s, had simply not been inaugurated, had not started its activity. We all agree with its closure, but the truth is that what we must demand, in view of what is the responsibility of the Portuguese Government, is that we mobilize the best technical, human and scientific means to determine the consequences for our country and the environment of the construction of the landfill that will store the toxic nuclear waste we are talking about. I believe that, from this point of view, the Government has been doing well in safeguarding the national interest and leaving this process in an increased level of confidence, in view of the information that we had a few months ago and which was very small. Today, we have the opportunity to participate in this process, we have access to the information that has, of course, led to the establishment of a working group to better assess the consequences of the construction of the landfill. Therefore, on the part of the PS Parliamentary Group, I would like to convey to you that our position is unequivocal in the follow-up to all the missiles and dynamisms that go to Portugal to make its best diplomatic efforts to close the Almaraz nuclear power plant. Finally, I would like to ask you, Mrs Commissioner, if you do not in any way consider it dangerous for society to stand out from the population by turning on a path of excessive and excessive alarmism on this matter, when today, in fact, we have more information than a few months ago. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u119	You have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u120	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I welcome and congratulate her on the subject which she brings here today and I must say that I have listened with great expectation to her political statement, and I have heard her on this matter is relevant since, being the Member of a party that supports and supports the Government, it is interesting to know here, in plenary, what is the position of the Greens. [[Well, no more!]] [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u121	It must mark an appeal to the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u122	It is interesting to know whether they continue to support and support a government that has had a completely erratic and irresponsible position and action on this issue of the Almaraz nuclear power plant. Erratic and irresponsible because the contradictions between the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for the Environment are many and because the various statements by these ministers contradict themselves. The Government began by submitting a complaint to the European Commission based on illegality because there is no cross-border impact study on the construction of the new warehouse. The government is now saying that the study is no longer necessary and that the study coordinated by APA is sufficient, this study which, as you know, does not refer to the issue of cross-border impacts. So now the government says, we can all be rested, because it's all right, and the warehouse will be built with the welcome of the Portuguese State. We therefore have the Government concerned about the safety and health of the Portuguese and that it believes that everything will normally run, considering that the unexpected, which are always the causes of the major accidents, in this case, will not surely happen. So, honourable Member, the question I put to you is this: is the Greens Ecological Party available to accept this enormous responsibility of the Government in this matter of enormous responsibility and concern to the Portuguese? Or does the Greens Ecological Party follow its conscience, as we have heard here, and rethink the support and support it gives to this government, which takes as dramatic measures as these? In conclusion, Mrs Deputies, as regards your challenge for the approval of the vote which you say will present tomorrow in this House, I would like to tell you that we will vote in favour of it from now on without knowing the text...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u123	That's trust in The Greens!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u124	...because we know what the intention is and, even more so, if the honourable Member is willing to do so...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u125	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u126	... and if we understand that this is useful, we will also subscribe to it in conjunction with the Greens Ecological Party. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u127	There is always hope in the future of humanity!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u128	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u129	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I welcome, first of all, the Greens Ecological Party for bringing to the debate a subject that indelibly marks our present situation. The issue of Almaraz and essentially the construction of the individualized temporary warehouse. In fact, the report of the technical working group consisting of the administration and independent experts who conducted the study on the construction of the ATI (individual temporary warehouse) recently put the discussion by the Portuguese Environment Agency, leaves a contradiction of the APA itself and even the Minister himself when it decided to consider the construction of the landfill, the ATI, from then on, the position assumed by the exposures made to APA, about the report of the working group, and which are all opposed, and there were nine positions, to the construction of the ATI, adding arguments that we consider valid and that they deal specifically with the need for protection and control measures on the occurrence of extreme events and other problems. The technical working group also pointed out weaknesses and weaknesses in deepening some issues, as well as the absence of permeability tests, significant impact analysis, even with impacts in Portugal. in this sense, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I would like to leave you three questions. First: do you think that people can be as calm as APA and the Government itself, with regard to the conclusions presented in this report? Secondly: does the Working Group consider that the recommendations are sufficient to ensure safety, public health and environmental protection? Finally, ladies and gentlemen, will there have been any precipitation on the part of the Portuguese Environment Agency and even the Minister of the Environment himself in relation to the taking of a position, considering the project safe and appropriate? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u130	To request clarification, Mr Jorge Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u131	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I begin by congratulating her on her speech and saying that the Spanish State has given, in this process of Almaraz and then in the interventions which the Portuguese Parliament has launched by the Portuguese side, a response to the Government which can be synthesized, in popular language, such as : the Portuguese State has sent « to turn around the large billiard». And the worst thing is that the Portuguese Government was even « turning around the big billiard». He made a complaint in Brussels, which was, after all, a complaint to be withdrawn, he presented his findings in a public summary « decaffeinated », and when we read the conclusions of this report we found what is most worrying and that the honourable Member summarized in her speech very well, some of which I would stress. First, in the studies of the Spanish State there is no study on the possibility of an accident, all studies are summarized in the construction phase and normal operating phase. Therefore, the possibility of an abnormal occurrence, an accident, which is the greatest danger of an installation like this, was not included in the studies, is not part of the expertise. Secondly, the widespread recognition that this structure is intended to prolong the useful life of the Almaraz nuclear power plant, as we all know, because this power plant to operate beyond the expected time frame needs to have such infrastructure. This is what has been written and is recognised by both the technical report and the Spanish side. Today we find in the speech of Mr. João Torres of the Socialist Party, the repetition of a very negative speech by Mr. Minister for Foreign Affairs in the Commission, which is the attempt to establish a certain unanimity on this subject, which has so far existed in the work of the political forces in this Parliament. Introducing this differentiation, trying to contaminate anyone who opposes the construction of this landfill, who opposes the continuity of the Almaraz nuclear power plant, and pasting the label of alarmism is the worst service, Mr. João Torres, which can lend itself to the anti-nuclear cause in Portugal. What we have to do today is to maintain in Parliament the strength of consensus and convergence against the development of nuclear energy in the Spanish State, and that is why the Portuguese Government had to act and should have, in its diplomatic action, brought into the Iberian Summit the topic of the Almaraz nuclear power plant. He did not, he did not succeed, and this is a diplomatic failure that should have been noted, which should have been recognised by the Minister for Foreign Affairs and also in his speech, Mr João Torres. Mrs Heloísa Apollonia, it is precisely about the Iberian Summit that I want to ask.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u132	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u133	Madam Member, what is your view of the absence of this item from the agenda of the Summit? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u134	To request clarification, Mr Bruno Coimbra has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u135	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, we are all really in agreement with the danger that the Almaraz power station represents. In fact, since the 1980s the PSD has marked the political agenda and the national option for non-nuclear, by the hand of Carlos Pimenta, and therefore this is a matter that is dear to us. Today, in fact, we all understand that, either by the proximity to our border and the river Tejo, either by having greatly exceeded its life span or by the fact that several incidents have already occurred that have come to the public, the nuclear power station in Almaraz should even be closed. In this way we all agree that we unanimously adopted in this House a resolution to recommend to the Government to intervene with Spain for the definitive closure of the nuclear power plant in Almaraz. by the way, we all agree, only the Minister for the Environment does not agree. First, and this has been there for several months, denied and devalued the incidents; then he tried to blame others; then he fled from a position consistent with the position of this House ; then he recognized the problem of the warehouse; then he filed a complaint in Brussels ; then he removed the complaint in Brussels ; and now he does not give the ok to the warehouse, but he goes on to say that he is much more relaxed with regard to Almaraz. It's so much of Mr. Minister's skepticism that I think he even pretends to himself. Madam Member, listening to your speech, I really have a few questions to ask you. First: in your understanding, is it or is it not, or may it be, related to the construction of a waste store to a new extension of the life of the plant? Second: today, are we in a worse situation than we were a few months ago in demand for the closure of the Almaraz plant? Thirdly, how does the honourable Member assess the performance of the Portuguese Government in this area? Finally, ladies and gentlemen, allow me also to tell you: if you differ with so much conviction, as you have shown us, from the positions that the Government has taken, how is it able to put up with politics in these matters too? It is true that the convictions are very large,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u136	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u137	... but the conveniences have surpassed, with regard to the vote of the Greens. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u138	In reply, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor, which is available for this purpose for 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u139	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to give a common answer, if I may, to Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco, of the CDS, and Mr Bruno Coimbra, of the PSD — and let me know why, to these two, is it not true?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u140	Then explain it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u141	The truth is that they put the question in a completely sent-off way. And that's because we're already in the middle of the mandate and the gentlemen. Members have not yet understood how the Assembly of the Republic works, but I understand why they do not understand. They do not understand why the Assembly of the Republic, for you, in the previous Parliament, worked as a resonance box of the Government and therefore when the Government said "Alas! », the gentlemen here cried out "Alas! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” So they do not understand how parliamentary groups can assert their positions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u142	It's democracy. Get used to it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u143	You know something, gentlemen. Mr Bruno Coimbra and Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco, all that benefits the Portuguese, whether or not they are proposals from the Government, everything that appears in the Assembly of the Republic, come from wherever they come, will have the favourable vote of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u144	Supported! A PCP supports!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u145	Everything that has come to harm the Portuguese will have the unfavourable vote of the Greens. You're getting used to it, Mr, because that's the way it is. The benches are autonomous in their positions, in the presentation of initiatives and you have to get used to this thing called 'democracy'. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]] [[PSD protests.]] With regard to the other questions, and those, yes, were on the subject that is at stake, I would like to say to the honourable Members. Mr João Torres and Mr Jorge Costa and Mrs Ana Virginia who, when the issue is denounced and demands the closure of the Almaraz nuclear power plant, is not a matter of creating any shock, nor is there any alarm. Perhaps, Mr President, this is about raising awareness among Portuguese people about the danger that is at our door at our border. The Greens held their parliamentary days in the districts of Castelo Branco and Portalegre and at the time I gave this information to the Assembly of the Republic: the people are aware, but they do not know what to do in the case of a nuclear accident. When you ask them what they would do, they don't have the slightest idea. It means, Mr, that you are aware of the danger that is at your door. Do you want to know what to do and basically want that danger to be eradicated is an alarm and an alarm? Oh, my God! No, it's a conscious population claiming their right. So what I think is that the government is not being a proper spokesperson for these interests of the Portuguese population, for the defence of our territory and our ecosystems and is not actually going the right way. The honourable Member said: « The Portuguese Government must not endorse». We know that the Government does not have to authorize, it is not him who licenses the landfill, but, Mr. Member, it is very different for the Portuguese Government to turn to the Spanish Government and say, "Yes, sir, what a great safe and appropriate project" or say that, in fact, we definitely want to eliminate the risk of nuclear at our door...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u146	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u147	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that we will do everything we can to ensure that this nuclear risk is eradicated. Therefore, Mr Jorge Costa, we consider a loss of opportunity for gold to be the fact that this matter is not at the Iberian Summit. Mrs Ana Virginia, of course, we believe that the APA report has many gaps and contradictions, which could not sustain a solid position on the part of the Government, in order to express itself resting on this issue. [[Applause from The Greens and Members of the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u148	Mrs. Members, before giving the floor to Mrs Berta Cabral, for a political statement, and it is not because it is this in particular but because it should still be for procedural reasons, I remember that there will not be even precedents with regard to out-of-time registrations. So I ask you to consider that I have warned in time. Thank you very much for your understanding. You now have the floor to Mrs Berta Cabral.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u149	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Portugal opted in 1983 in a government that the PSD was part of, for the non-production of nuclear energy. It was a historic and very courageous decision that determined all the energy policy adopted by Portugal until today. Despite this option, Portugal remains exposed to nuclear threats from our neighbouring Spain, which less than 100 km from our border installed the Almaraz nuclear power plant in 1981 and 1983. A power plant to complete 40 years of activity, which was due to have been closed in 2010, which was extended until 2020 and all points to be renewed. The construction of a nuclear waste store in Almaraz and the subsequent prolongation of the life of its nuclear power plant are faces of the same currency. The extension of the life of the central is the real reason behind the construction of the individualized temporary warehouse.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u150	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u151	A situation which is in sight of everyone, denounced by all parliamentary groups in this House, by environmental associations, by the authorships and by the people and which only the government does not want to see. We are three years away from the end of the power plant's lifetime and it is obvious that the implementation of an investment of this size can only indicate that the power plant will continue to produce beyond 2020. This construction is undoubtedly a decisive step in a process that is becoming increasingly irreversible and in relation to which the government continues to « put its head in the sand ». And it's not, nor has it, for lack of warning! The Government was alerted to this problem in February 2016 — more than one year ago — following two failures in the engines of the cooling pumps of the Almaraz Central, reported to our country and to the general population by the Spanish Nuclear Security Council, which led the PSD at that time, and at that time, to propose the establishment of an interparliamentary committee of Luso-Spanish to follow this process. In April of that same year, Parliament adopted draft resolutions of the various parties, which gave rise to Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 107 / 2016, which it objectively recommends to the Portuguese Government that « (...) intervene with the Spanish Government and the European institutions in order to close the Almaraz (...) ». The government has continued to do nothing. We have questioned the Minister of the Environment on this subject throughout the year 2016 at all hearings in the committee responsible and even during the debate on the Budget. We asked him in April, June, September and November. The Environment Minister continued to devalue the issue and even assumed that he was not concerned about it. It has not listened to Parliament, nor has it developed a single attempt to comply unanimously with the resolution adopted in this House, which is very serious. Only at the end of December 2016, faced with the official and public announcement of the construction of the ATI, realized that he had to do something, or be careful. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u152	What did the government do? He complained to Brussels...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u153	A little complaint!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u154	...and then withdrawing, confirming our suspicions that it was only about "throwing sand for the eyes" of the Portuguese. He then made an agreement with Spain to appease public opinion and published — a good agreement for Spain, as we said at the time, because Portugal brought nothing again. Then, in order to hide behind a technical report, he created a working group coordinated by a senior administrative officer, by himself, Minister, protected. It's all said! Here you come, what have we got? We have a hand full of nothing! We have a country hostage to the government's inaction and we still have what we didn't want: a landfill in construction, with the support of the Portuguese Government, which is exactly half a way to prolong the life of the central Almaraz. [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members: This situation, if not tragic, was comical. The negligent way in which the government has dealt with this matter has no forgiveness. It must be borne in mind that the consequences of a possible nuclear accident are irreversible and irremediable. The government was clearly not up to its responsibilities. But it may still be time to do something, and that is the challenge here. The Government must act immediately to halt this process of prolonging the life of the Almaraz power plant. And the Iberian Summit is the opportunity that the Government has to show the Portuguese on whose side it is, whether it is on the Portuguese side or whether it is on the side of the Spanish energy industries. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u155	This is the opportunity of the Government to comply with the recommendations adopted by this Parliament, of course... [[In the meantime, President Eduardo Ferro Rodrigues took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u156	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u157	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I was saying, this is the opportunity of the Government to comply with the recommendations adopted by this Parliament, from the outset of the resolution already mentioned here, adopted by this House, proposed by the PSD, to ensure that the matter is placed on the agenda of the Iberian Summit. The PSD will take this matter to the Iberian forum that precedes the Iberian Summit and will not lower its arms in monitoring government action and in defending the vital interests of Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u158	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u159	Yeah, because it's about the lives of the people we're talking about. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u160	Madam Member, the Bureau records entries of five Members. Ladies and gentlemen, to make requests for clarification. I don't know how you want to answer...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u161	I shall first respond to a set of three and then to one of two, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u162	So the first set of three is composed by Mr. Deputies Jorge Duarte Costa, of BE, João Torres, of PS, and Álvaro Castello-Branco, of CDS-PP. Mr. Jorge Duarte Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u163	Mr President, Mrs Berta Cabral, I would like to begin by welcoming her on the subject she has chosen and by stressing the content of the unanimous resolution we have adopted here in the Assembly of the Republic. at that time, the resolution stressed not the need for technical studies but, rather, the risks of the presence of the Almaraz nuclear power plant ; it did not stress the need for accurate and successive reports but, rather, the risks present in the operation of the Almaraz nuclear power plant and the extension of its useful life well beyond what is recommended by international standards. Therefore, today, it is important to remember this content, because it was unanimous and, at the time, alarmism did not arise as a shadow in this debate. We were able to be unanimous in what was most important: prolonging the operation of the Almaraz nuclear power plant is a danger, it is a threat and it is an abuse that the Spanish State commits on the border and on the river Tejo, in front of the Portuguese people. But I would like to concentrate on two concrete issues that I wanted to leave to Mrs. Deputies. At the end of his speech, he referred to giving up on the power and lobby of the Spanish energy industries. We well know that Endesa, Iberdrola and Fenosa are leading players in the Portuguese energy system, have very relevant positions in the electric plane, in the gas level and are even market leaders, in particular in the provision of large electricity consumers. So I ask: do you consider the weight of these companies in energy, considered energy as a highly regulated sector, where the State has such a large decision-making capacity that measures would be relevant for the Portuguese State to take, in the context of negotiations which, permanently and necessarily, occur between the State and these large operators in the electricity and gas distribution system, so that Portuguese pressure can be made and results can be achieved at the level of the direct relationship between the Portuguese State, the Government on the one hand, and Endesa, the Fenosa Natural Gas and the Iberdrola on the other side? Should or should not the Portuguese State place on the table the conditions of privilege in which these companies today operate their business in electricity and gas in the framework of negotiations on the closure of the Almaraz nuclear power plant? This is the first question. The second question has to do with the Spanish Government. The PSD and the CDS had been in government for four years, and this was not an issue that, at that time, had raised concerns, but this is behind us and today, fortunately, we have convergent positions. However, in front of the Spanish Government and with the intention of prolonging the functioning of the Almaraz nuclear power plant, the People's Party, which is one of the main parties of the PSD political family. The question I ask you, Mrs. Member, is this:...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u164	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u165	I'm finishing up, Mr. President. Mrs Deputy, what initiatives have you planned or have you already taken the PSD, together with that brother party, to raise awareness to the head of the Spanish Government, initiate the closure process of the Almaraz nuclear power plant? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u166	Mr. João Torres has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u167	Mr President, Mrs Berta Cabral, I would like to convey to you on behalf of the Parliamentary Group that the PS continues to monitor the content of the resolution adopted in this House with regard to the completion of all the proceedings with a view to the Almaraz nuclear power plant. On this matter, we never had, nor have we, two faces. But I would also like to tell you, with all honesty, and this is a very important issue, that today we have no more reason to be concerned about this matter than we had two months ago because, following the process conducted by the government, we have today all the technical information that enables us to prove with credibility an assessment of the impact of the construction of the ATI in the nuclear power plant in Almaraz. But, Madam Member, the Portuguese Government will not resign from continuing to follow this issue. And the Minister for Foreign Affairs has already taken over, in committee, which takes as the guidance of the Government the resolution which was adopted in the Assembly of the Republic. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to tell you, with all honesty and sincerity, that, in terms of energy options, the Socialist Party does not accept moral lessons, neither the PSD nor the CDS. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And, Mrs Defensa, much less accept lessons from you, who now comes to title almost a champion of environmental issues, when, as Secretary of State for Defence, he did not have the ability to solve the problem of soil contamination in the Lajes, in the Autonomous Region of the Azores. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But I would still like to tell you the following: tomorrow, seven years have been noted, perhaps, on one of the last public statements that the then leader of the opposition, which, coincidentally, is the same today, Dr. Pedro Passos Coelho, did on the issue of nuclear energy. And at the time, what the opposition leader — the same as today — defended was that Portugal should seriously debate nuclear energy in Portugal. It wasn't in the 1980s, it was in 2010! Therefore, Mrs Deputy, the question I put is the following: on the part of the PSD, we can have an absolutely unequivocal answer in this House about its inability to continue to deepen this debate or, in fact, the PSD rejects the Almaraz nuclear power plant but makes it possible...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u168	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u169	...or, at the bottom, does he admit that one is built in our country? This is the question I ask you. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u170	Mr Álvaro Castello-White has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u171	Mr President, Mrs Berta Cabral, I would like to congratulate you on bringing this issue from Almaraz to this House, because, as I have just mentioned, it is of the greatest importance and it is a subject which is of great concern to the CDS. As you know, the government is in a mistake that is stubbornly maintaining and that it is to consider that the construction of a new nuclear waste store does not mean the Spanish Government's intention to extend the life of the power plant by 2020. Not even having the APA report in its possession, which, in one of its considerations, says textually, how all Portuguese could read yesterday in a media agency, which, and I quote, «the construction of the new waste store makes it possible to extend the operation of the Almaraz nuclear power plant, in addition to the current operating authorisation which ends in 2020 », not even reading this excerpt from that report, the Government loses the fear of insisting that one thing has nothing to do with the other. It is clear to us, CDS, that this warehouse, to be built, is the fundamental step towards prolonging the life of the power plant by 2020, as the honourable Member has just mentioned in her speech. By 2020, this power plant has long exceeded the reasonable limits on safety and accident risk. Therefore, the CDS, being against the prolongation of the life of this power plant - which we are very concerned about, with the tacit agreement of the Portuguese Government - is, of course, also against the construction of the new waste store. I take this time to say the following: we have heard the answer Mrs Heloísa has given us recently. I ask, Mrs Berta Cabral, if you do not think that the position of parties such as the Greens Ecological Party, rather than democracy, is a simulation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u172	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u173	The question is this: they speak, they speak, they speak, but they are not consequent,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u174	« There was no need...»
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u175	Tonekas again? Oh, my God! It's the lecture of the Tantec lessons, but they don't learn!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u176	...it's not democracy, it's simulation. I would like to ask you, Madam Commissioner, if you agree with this statement. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u177	You have the floor to answer, Mrs Berta Cabral.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u178	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the honourable Members. Deputies Jorge Costa, João Torres and Álvaro Castello-White the questions they asked. Mr Jorge Costa, indeed for us, this issue of the Almaraz power plant and the construction of the ATI was never technical, it was always political. It was always in this plan that we believe that this discussion should be put, because on the day when it was put in the technical discussion—as the Minister of the Environment did when he appointed a working group, but coordinated by an official of his, that he would guard—there would be a thousand and an apology and a thousand and a way of starting to discuss this issue, leaving aside what is essential. And the essential thing is to discuss, politically and diplomatically, between Portugal and Spain, the resolution of this issue, because we cannot permit the extension of the useful life of this power plant in 2010 in an Eng Socrates government —...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u179	All right! Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u180	... and I mention this fact for the PS to remember and remember, because they have arrived recently and still have no memory... the truth is that it is in the political and diplomatic field that this issue is resolved, and it is the state. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u181	Therefore, to me, whether it is possible for companies to agree or not, whether they are in these negotiations or not.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u182	We leave the operators alone!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u183	in these negotiations, there must be a firm Portuguese government before a Spanish government, in order not to give in to the interests that Portugal does not care about. On this point, I think that we have always maintained unanimity in our Commission and, on my part, I am asking it to remain. I am only sorry that other parties seek to whiteen the government's performance, that they think they must bear at any price. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. João Torres, as I said recently, I realize that he has to whiten the performance of his government, because he effectively managed this process in an absolutely disastrous way. She's a mess! It was staged and then it was unable to be consistent, it was just zigzag around this issue. The most certain thing is that we will soon have the request to extend the life span of the central government and this government, with all its work, has no room to go back. This government will take over to a power plant over 40 years old and continue to produce when all over Europe — for example, in Germany and France — are closing down all power stations over 40 years.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u184	All right! [[Protests from PS MP João Torres.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u185	I'll answer your question. I realize you don't like to hear my answer. [[PSD applause.]] As for contamination at the Lajes Base, I mean...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u186	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u187	Mr. President, you can discount the next time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u188	I didn't understand what I was saying, but I ask you to conclude, Mrs Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u189	As I was saying, as far as contamination at the Lajes Base is concerned, I realize that Mr. João Torres has been through this yesterday's debate, but I will now quote...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u190	I didn't stay, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u191	You didn't stay, but you remained your parliamentary leader because in 2008 you hid that there was a contamination problem. But I must say, quoting the President of the Regional Azores Government, Vasco Cordeiro, that the only good thing that has been done, since it began to reduce the effects on the Lajes Base, was the reduction of staff, which has been done in my time. From there there was no single reduction,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u192	Thank you, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u193	... nothing else has been done strictly. Nothing else! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u194	You have the floor to ask for clarifications by Mrs Ana Virginia of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u195	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, you are again in this House, and on the roll, the nuclear power station in Almaraz and again, without being for the best reasons. this time it is the construction of the individualized temporary warehouse, which opens the way to a possible prolongation of the life of this obsolete nuclear power plant and which poses risks to populations and the environment. The recently published report of the technical working group set up following the complaint to Brussels by the Portuguese Government and subsequent developments, including the tripartite meeting promoted by the European Union, with Portugal and Spain, seems to have left both APA and the Minister of the Environment alone. The analysis of this report, however, cannot leave the people at ease, who fear for their safety, their health and the environment. From the time of the public consultation of the document, the nine exhibitions — already mentioned today — received, which were all against the construction of this ATI, presenting arguments covering different situations, from the need for protection and control, the occurrence of extreme events, the possibility even to break up the dam of Valdecañas, among others, which are not provided for in this report. The conclusions of the working group also point to failures: lack of depth of some issues, reduced number and lack of continuity of permeability tests, which may even imply inadequate soil characterization. The Spanish Nuclear Safety Council itself identified gaps which may be relevant in the consideration of potential impacts, including on Portuguese territory. in this scenario, the CFP considers that there are contradictions between APA's position and the tranquillity of Mr Minister, when they are not in possession of all the elements that enable them to make a final decision, as proved in the conclusions of the working group of technicians. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Berta Cabral, we have all demonstrated here our concerns about the issues of Almaraz, about the construction of the ATI and about what could be the harmful consequences for the people and the environment.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u196	Mrs. Member, you've outlived your time. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u197	I conclude immediately, Mr President. Consequently, according to your position — the position of the PSD and the CDS — on these concerns, I would like to know what has been done during the Government to which the party belongs that Mrs Berta Cabral is part, at a time when perhaps temporarily could have solved this situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u198	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u199	I will now finish, Mr President. I would also like to know what they intend to do before the possibility of prolonging the life of the Almaraz nuclear power plant and respecting the sovereignty of States and the principle of non-interference. What positions do you intend to take? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u200	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u201	Mr President, Mrs Berta Cabral, because I have been asked directly by Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco, I ask for your understanding to respond immediately to the question which Mr has put to me. Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco, do not take the others for what you do, because you and your party take positions depending on the circumstances.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u202	Oh, oh!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u203	The gentlemen, at a certain point, when they were in opposition, said that they were the taxpayers' party, they were the farm party, they were the pensioners' party...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u204	So what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u205	They've come to the government and they've forgotten all these people. They forgot, they sneered, they loaded on all the Portuguese. [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u206	Oh, now you don't want to hear? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u207	Now, in the opposition, they recall again the taxpayers, the farm, the pensioners and Almaraz. [[CDS-PP protests.]] And from Almaraz, take a good look, Mr. Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u208	And there's something to say? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u209	Mrs Berta Cabral, this to say exactly what? That the previous governments were not exactly proactive in relation to the requirement, so let us say a firm position towards the closure of the Almaraz nuclear power plant. [[CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u210	Hey!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u211	And it wasn't just the previous government, PSD / CDS. The former PS Government has not done anything rigorously either. If these positions had been taken in a firm manner, it would most likely be conditional on the following and the current government's need for a consequent stance on what had been done. But what did we check? Successive governments, half indifferent and completely passive, regarding a danger that looks at our door and that deserves a more proactive attitude from the government. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS, we do not strictly simulate anything, we are absolutely coherent and consistent in our positions. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] This is how the Green Party acts in politics: with firmness, determination and coherence.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u212	Less to Friday!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u213	in the past, we demand the closure of the Almaraz nuclear power plant and today we will continue to demand it and we will do everything, with the government, here in the Assembly of the Republic, to be actually accomplished. Our objective is that there is no extension beyond 2020 of the life of that nuclear power plant. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u214	In reply, Mrs Berta Cabral has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u215	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco, I apologize to you for not having responded but I did not have time to do so. Obviously the construction of the landfill, of the ATI, is indicative of the prolongation of the life of the central. And it's not just us who think so. [[At this moment, the speaker displayed two articles from the Public Journal.]] On 22 February 2017, the Minister of the Environment admits that the landfill serves to prolong the life of the plant and next in April 2017, the Minister says that Portugal accepts the construction of the warehouse of the plant because it is much more relaxed after the technical pseudo-study.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u216	Are there any questions? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u217	So there are doubts that everyone, including the government, will know that there will be an extension of the life of the Almaraz Central and nothing do? Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, on our part, I have asked to describe all the heritage that we had on this subject at this Legislative Session, and in previous legislative sessions only in 2010 when the Government was of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u218	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u219	You were there in 2011 and 2012!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u220	in this measure, what I have to say is that, even though Mr. João Torres is seeking to deepen the debate, debate is not to be in favour; debate is simply to debate. Just know how to use the words and the meaning of them. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u221	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I would also like to say the following: there is the idea—and I think that in some way the left parties would like this idea to be maintained—that these environmental causes are heritage on the left. But you are not, Mrs. Member. And fortunately they're not! It's good for your parties, it's good for us and it's good for the Portuguese people.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u222	So what about your decisions? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u223	The practice does not turn this into serious statements!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u224	They're national causes. And national causes are neither left nor right, because national causes have no share. [[Protests by BE Member Jorge Duarte Costa.]] That is our position and it is in this position and in this coherence that we will continue. You can be sure of what I'm telling you. [[PSD applause.]] Mrs Virgínia Pereira, I should like to say that, with the answers I gave to you. Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco and Mr Heloísa Apolónia, I think the issue is duly clarified. In 2010 it was Prime Minister José Socrates who authorized the extension of the Almaraz power plant. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u225	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, from the PS, has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u226	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: « A company in which rights are not guaranteed and the separation of powers does not have a constitution ». This passage from the 1789 Declaration of Human and Citizens' Rights provides a clear picture of the importance of a constitutional text in the creation of mechanisms to control the power and protection of citizens and citizens. however, the mere existence of a text formally designated as a Constitution does not effectively guarantee a framework of values such as inclusion and freedom, as, in fact, was the case in Portugal for many years, under the rule of the Constitution of 1933. Between us, almost imperceptibly, last week, we pointed out a particularly relevant milestone in the history of our Constitution, when it superseded the validity of the previous constitutional text, temporarily prevailing over an authoritarian constitution and that for 41 years provided a purely formal layer to the legitimacy of the dictatorship. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The ladies and gentlemen ask. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the importance of historically evoking this moment and this constitutional efemeride? It is, however, a milestone in the history and life of the 1976 Constitution that must be emphasized by its symbolic impact and by its relevance to what we do every day in this Parliament. Firstly, it is a clear framework for the stability and vitality of the democratic regime. It is not a question of proclaiming that it is a perfect democratic regime, which is a complete and fully achieved political regime in its objectives, but of highlighting the obvious success of the first constitutional text approved by a democratically elected Constituent Assembly. Many of the founders of our democracy looked with particular concern over the course of the 16-year period, which corresponded to what had been the first Republic's reign and, perhaps, an insurmountable goal in building a stable and solidified democracy. That is why, secondly, it is important to remember how we achieved this milestone and how the 1976 Constitution met the challenges it faced. It was during this 16-year period that exceeded the transitional regime, in which it lived in its original version; it was during that 16-year period that extended its basis of consensus and effectively became a constitutional text with less ideological burden, but not with less axiological burden and with less valueful burden and that allowed us today to conclude a number of positive things about our experience. We have a consolidated democracy, capable of experimenting with numerous governmental solutions, ensuring democratic alternance and, in fact, in the present, testing even new formulas that guarantee the participation of all parties with parliamentary representation in day-to-day management, which makes it more inclusive and more capable of reflecting the pluralism of our society. We have a robust model of protection of fundamental rights, thanks to the performance of the Public Administration, the courts, the Ombudsman and other constitutional bodies and that, over the 41 years of its operation, has always been able to enhance its quality. Today, women, LGBT people (Lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transvestites, transsexuals and transgenders), persons with disabilities, members of minority religious confessions, all have full access, on equal terms, with full respect for their right to the free development of personality, to the "gates which April has opened" and which keep open. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We also have a social protection regime that ensures the country's development and well-being, based on public school, in the National Health Service, in a social security system, which, once again, fortunately, the current government was able to put back in the centre of the political agenda, valuing public services and creating conditions so that they are effectively a factor of cohesion and guarantee that we are a cohesive constitutional community. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There is only real democracy if there are social rights, and social rights are part of this genetic code of democracy in April. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We also guarantee — and we must highlight — the autonomy of local power and the political and administrative autonomy of the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira, crowning a long aspiration of the island peoples who also guarantee in the Constitution a text that finally gives them the aspiration and the response to ensure development, in accordance with their specific interest. We could be tempted to think that having a government and a Parliament that fulfills the Constitution is just one thing, something that is not worth remembering. But I think it is important, for recent history, to say it again: social rights are not mere state fats capable of being suppressed; labour rights are not a detail to sacrifice on the altar of precariousness; the principles of criminal proceedings are not instruments of populist intervention; and the Constitutional Court, above all, is not a blocking force, whose judges need to be taught or disciplined when, eventually, they contradict what is not suitable for the minds of some. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, thirdly, at a time when liberal democracies face challenges that extremism, populism, xenophobia, a little around the world, it is essential to reaffirm the importance of democratic constitutionalism and its role in creating cases of success and balance. Close to us, in the European framework, European partners, such as Hungary, undermine their constitutions and constitutional protection of fundamental rights. Along with the borders of the European Union, Turkey is going through a dangerous process that leads to authoritarianism, which cannot leave anyone indifferent. on the other side of the Atlantic, for example, Venezuela has democratic institutions that live with serious and dangerous consequences for its citizens and for those who reside there. Therefore, in this context, in a challenging international context, we must view constitutionalism and the idea of constitutional patriotism as a particularly valuable asset to cherish. As several political thinkers do, it is the construction of an identity around the values that are reflected in the Constitution, values that build an inclusive and open political community, which must continue to motivate us, to remember why it is important, because in 2017, as in 1789, it is essential to have a constitutional text. Our experience, simply in a small country, at the planted seaside, has been to give the example of being able to affirm itself as an alternative in a world in which apparently there were no alternatives and to give the example of consolidating democratic life, through a constitutional framework of values that all the parties represented in this House recognize and adhere to, despite the differences of the moment. Despite what certainly separates us from the text of the Constitution and the fundamental triad of values, we are all able to review and from it we can all be proud of. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u227	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, the Bureau records the registration of three Mrs. Members to request clarifications, one from the Left Block, another from the PSD and another from the PCP. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u228	I shall answer together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u229	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Left Block, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u230	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, I would like to congratulate you on the intervention you have just made and to remind us of this historic framework which is today the validity of the 1976 constitutional text beyond what was the validity of the New State Constitution. Yesterday, in the debate in this Parliament, a Member of a political party on the right of parliament said that we have a problem with the Constitution. in fact, what I wanted to say is that we have a requirement in the Constitution, which is that we assume entirely that the Constitution is both a statute and a programme for our democracy. It is a statute, because it contains a set of rules that, through repetition, govern imperatively what our democratic life has to be. Rules such as the inviolability of communications or the main task of the State to ensure national independence and to promote the conditions for this, but also a programme of complete democracy—political, economic, social and cultural. So what a huge path we have already made in the recovery of income, in the recovery of rights! I would not get the fingers of both hands to find declarations of unconstitutionality during the mandate of the PSD Government and the CDS under the authority of the troika. I'm glad that road has been spooked! The truth, Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, is that this programme is always about to be implemented. We look at the housing and we see the evictions that are being made in Amadora or Mouraria. We look at education and see how it is necessary to reduce the number of students by class and establish democracy in schools. We look at social security and see how we need to raise pensions. We look at health and see how it is necessary to have a family doctor for each citizen or citizen. And above all — on this which I would like to ask — we find barriers that are of great size and of enormous gravity to the fulfilment of the constitutional programme. in fact, these tasks that are before us will hardly be fulfilled if we have to be tied to the fulfilment of totally absurd structural deficit requirements or the so-called 'European rules'. That is why, Mr President, this imperative of endless austerity which is imposed on Portugal as part of its membership of Economic and Monetary Union is something that cannot fail to be reflected when we talk about the validity of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u231	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u232	I will finish, Mr. President. In welcoming him once again for his intervention, the question he wanted to leave is precisely whether our Constitution is truly fundamental law or whether it is something that goes beyond it. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u233	Mr Hugo Soares, from the PSD, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, I would like to congratulate Mr Pedro Delgado Alves on his political statement and the subject which he brought to the House today and to join him in the celebration of the efemeride he has registered. Mr President, we, the PSD Parliamentary Group and the PS Parliamentary Group — let me go further, the Socialist Party and the PSD — have always been together in the major, necessary transformations that the country has suffered over the past 40 years and we have also been together whenever it was necessary to change and transform the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves, let me say that we miss this Socialist Party! [[EB and CFP Members' laughs.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u235	If you want the room just for both of us, we're out!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u236	We miss the Socialist Party that was a reformist, that looked at society and wanted it to evolve, that it valued the private initiative, that looked at the balance of powers and that respected the separation of powers. [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Pedro Delgado Alves today, the Socialist Party — I do not want to use the expression « jumped the wall» because on the side of the wall it is and will always be that radical left with us, that is, with the Socialist Party and with the PSD, never changed the Constitution, never made the reforms that the country needed — it is not the same as the Socialist Party of its founders. Let me say, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, with a special emphasis, how important social rights are and how good they are provided for in our Basic Law.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u237	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u238	However, Mr President, it will be up to me to follow up on the reflection that they — social rights — in the Constitution, do not go beyond the express forecasts of constitutional precepts that we all value. But the important thing is to do them, to realize them, to take them to people's lives, and they were never as far away from people's lives as when in 2011 you left the country in bankruptcy. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u239	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u240	It was not the Constitution that guaranteed them, it was the government of then that realized them, saving the public finances of the country. [[PSD applause.]] Mr President, I shall end by leaving a question to Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, which is why these petitions serve.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u241	It is appropriate that you be quick, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u242	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, do you think it is to respect the Constitution and celebrate it the way you have demolished the Banco de Portugal, the way you have dealt with the question of the Council of Public Finance and finally — and I will conclude immediately, Mr President — the way you constantly disregard practices, traditions and even rules in our Parliament? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u243	Mr Jorge Machado, from the CFP, has the floor to ask for clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u244	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, of course we associate ourselves with his political statement in what constitutes a greeting to the 1976 Constitution. in practice, that was the case. We therefore accompany this greeting to the 1976 Constitution, which enshrines the values of April. in the background, the 1976 Constitution gave shape to the achievements that were already under way in our country, resulting from the 1974 Revolution — this Constitution that we so valued — and at the same time defeated the 1933 fascist Constitution. It is therefore a historic landmark of great importance, as has already been pointed out, to which we want to associate ourselves. The 1976 Constitution, as has already been mentioned here, enshrines a set of rights: economic, political and social, rights, freedoms and guarantees, among many others, but also labour rights, the dignity of workers' rights, to which constitutional dignity has been given, and that is something we would also like to point out.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u245	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u246	It was clear not only the progressive charism of the 1976 Constitution but also the umbilical relationship with the 1974 Revolution and the achievements that followed it. in our view, the importance of the Constitution was well demonstrated in the PSD and CDS-PP governments. That is why we have the silence of the CDS and an agricultural intervention of the Democratic Social Party bench,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u247	That's good. Thank you!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u248	... because these two parties, during the period of their own government, have 13 times — I repeat, for 13 times — declared unconstitutional standards, measures, proposals, budgets, which have been approved in this Assembly of the Republic. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u249	For 13 times it was the struggle that defeated them, but for 13 times it was also very important to our Constitution, which prevented a way of cutting and attacking the rights of the Portuguese. We therefore greatly appreciate the April Constitution. But there is a long way to go. The 1976 Constitution enshrines a source of rights, social justice, which must be consecrated and given body in concrete terms. Why is it important to move from words to actions, the question that we leave to you is this: what path will we go and what measures will we take in this matter? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u250	In reply, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u251	Mr President, I was beginning to correct a short time ago and to greet Mr President precisely on the initiative to commemorate the 200 years of constitutionalism, in which I think we can also frame the way in which we celebrate the present Constitution, which is a factor that we should put on the table and remember in this House. This is the greeting I recently forgot to make. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u252	Going to meet two of the questions put by the honourable Members. Members Jorge Machado and José Manuel Pureza, I understand that, above all, the Constitution is also a challenge for us to be permanently dissatisfied. And, in fact, we are dissatisfied. at the same time that we are satisfied and we rejoice with the absolutely overwhelming results of what we achieved at the level of social protection, education, what this country was in 1974 and what it is today thanks to what the Constitution forced what it was to be, we must continue to have a feeling of permanent dissatisfaction. That is why the Constitution must also be a permanent challenge for us to mobilize and alter the state of things. It is not just a starting text, as it has to be the goal, but it must be the arrival that we should seek to look forward to. It is in this sense that things are complicated because the resources to do so are, in fact, a factor that must be first in the equation. Mr. José Manuel Pureza raised a very relevant question, on which must be the role of our European integration in this same process. Let me point out that Europe is part of the constitutional text and our commitment to the European project is included in the Constitution. This does not mean that we accept it acritically, or that we have to accept what is imposed on us or what we are seeking to impose on us when this contradicts the spirit we seek to realize, which is that of the Constitution. But this must indeed be the way of a combination that I think the current majority of parliament is trying, with what it is possible, to achieve at national level, demonstrating that we are able to deepen the protection of social rights, return dignity to workers, return dignity and income to families and, at the same time, seek to fulfil our obligations with our European partners and, more than that, modify how our European partners view these same obligations, polluting them with the spirit of the Constitution of April and polluting them also with such constitutional patriotism, which is needed in Europe and which, fortunately, we have the ability to mobilize among ourselves. Now, if I may, Mr Hugo Soares, I would give you a note of two things. If you miss the PS, and do not want to make this romantic—we will have Salvador Sobral in Parliament tomorrow to ensure the romantic dimension—we also miss the PSD. We miss the PSD that was social-democrat; we miss the PSD that actually placed...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u253	PSD is here!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u254	He's here, but he's quiet, sir. Don't say it! You don't have the voice you had when it was fundamental! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The constitutional text that we have today has been evolving and, therefore, I dared to say that it is today a constitutional text not only of some parties but of all, because the axis of approval of the Constitution was the PS, passed through the PS, passed through the Portuguese Communist Party and went to UDP. The constitutional review axes were already different: they included the CDS, which is also part of this constitutional majority, despite having voted against the Constitution. In fact, I leave this note: although there is no intervention, I would like to stress that the CDS is both part of the current constitutional majority and all the other parties that are represented in this Parliament. Now, returning to Mr Hugo Soares, what we need is a Social-Democrat PSD, which places priority on education, which places priority on social protection and does not hide behind the idea that saving austerity has saved the social state. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]] When we went to look for what, indeed, almost destroyed the backbone of social protection in our constitutional text, we found that unfortunately it was the action of the previous government. But fortunately and in good time, the Portuguese had the good sense not to give him the majority... [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]] Mr. Deputies, for some reason you are sitting on the opposition bench! It was because the popular will, translated into the electoral result, thus embodies it, also showing that the Constitutions give us a program and a method and that, within this method, we can use it to achieve our objectives. If, today, we have the privilege and the possibility of working with our partners on the left to achieve these objectives, we do not exclude that one day we can work with the partners on the right, if perhaps they change their attitude and political options. That's the virtuality of what we've always done over the 41 years of democracy... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u255	...and that, I think, all the parties here have done it, because I think that no party in this House will shield itself and refuse to collaborate with any other. I believe that there is an opening in the CDS to occasionally vote with the Left Block, in the PCP to, occasionally, vote with the PSD and the Socialist Party to vote with all, whenever this achieves the principles and objectives that are in the Constitution, obviously with the differences, which are also part of the constitutional text, of our philosophy and of our democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u256	For a political statement, you have the floor on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Isabel Pires.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u257	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: 16 families will be cleared between August and the end of this year in the Mouraria district. They are more than 40 people who live on the street of the Lagares, in the heart of this historic neighbourhood of Lisbon, famous for its fairies, for its marches and for its life and so desirable for the millions of tourists who pass by and leave its brand. Some of these people have been living on that street for 50 years; others, younger, were born, grew up, and there were families; and others were still received there after having been cleared from other places in the same neighborhood. Now, we witness the destruction of these ties and these experiences. Tourism exerts brutal pressure in the historical areas of Lisbon. Tourists look for what is authentic, but we run the risk of, in the very near future, they end up visiting a ghost city in an artificial setting where they only come to each other because the life of the neighborhood no longer lives there. on the same street where you want to clear these people, there are luxury buildings, hotels and local accommodation. The daughters and the children of the neighborhood are expelled out of the city because income prices keep rising. Meanwhile, the buildings of the Santa Casa da Misericórdia continue to be engulfed. These buildings have been sold for decades by residents of the neighborhood, hoping that the houses could be used to serve who needed them most in the future, but that day has not yet arrived. The popular neighborhoods from which Lisbon was born and which today name it for the world will be only a memory in the future. The present is a process of decharacterization not because of modernity nor even because of tourists, but because these neighborhoods are being emptied of their people, our people. This portrait of the street of the Lagares in Mouraria is unfortunately not a unique case in the city or, at least, in the country. We need to point to those who are responsible. The portrait of this and so many other streets shows the consequences that are still felt by the law of Crystal Assumption evictions, as Minister of the CDS in the former government with the PSD. The New Urban Rent Scheme, a real law of evictions, has created too many injustices. It was one of the laws that most exposed the social insensitivity of the previous government, which showed that it was not able to approve a law that protected the elderly and placed thousands of families at the mercy of real estate interests. As early as 2016, the Assembly of the Republic managed to partially curb some of the injustices of this regime. With the amendment to the law, as a result of the working group between the Left Block and the Government on housing policy, we have been able to protect people over the age of 65 or with disabilities for another five years. But, as we also said at the time, that does not happen and is in sight of everyone and everyone. [[Congratulations from BE.]] on the street of the Lagares, the amendments that I mentioned and that we made ensured that the inhabitants aged over 65 did not receive the eviction letter. however, the law also allows real estate speculation to take their neighbors and neighbors from time to time and leave them isolated. It is therefore necessary to go a long way in the urban lease regime, to ensure that we do not witness the destruction of social relations, nor the expulsion of people and, ultimately, that we do not continue to deny the constitutional right to housing. It is not only the Left Block that sees this problem, it is the inhabitants of Lisbon who also complain. A study published today by the University of New Lisbon notes that at the top of the complaints of the Lisboa is the price and availability of housing in the capital. in this line, it is obvious that the New Urban Rent Law did not dynamize the market, as predicted, nor did it respond to people's problems, but, yes, only to the needs of tourists and tourism.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u258	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u259	It is, without surprise, one of the areas where the municipality's greater intervention is claimed to regulate the market and ensure affordable income. A city or country that responds to its citizens and its citizens must be able to find a healthy balance between one of the most important economic activities in the country — tourism — and the right to housing. One cannot and should not be the reason for the exclusion of the other. We don't start early, but we're still in time to stop the real estate speculation. It is time to start making cities and cities, having people at the center of housing policy. That is what is in the hands of the Assembly of the Republic: to make policies that protect people, such as the inhabitants of the street of the Lagares and so many others who have been expelled from the cities. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I end with a quote by Alberto Caeiro from the poem I am of the size of what I see: « in the city the big houses close their eyes to the key / Hide the horizon, push our gaze away from all the sky/ Make us small because they take away what our eyes can give us/ And make us poor because our only wealth is to see». Mrs. Members, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot let the city make its inhabitants so small that we no longer see them, as is happening not only in the city of Lisbon but in many other cities throughout the country. It is therefore necessary to deepen the amendments to the New Urban Rent Scheme. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[In the meantime, Vice-President Jorge Lacão resuscitated the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u260	The Bureau recorded the registration of four Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you intend to respond, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u261	I will answer two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u262	All right. To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Emília Santos of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u263	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Isabel Pires, I welcome, democratically and on behalf of the PSD, the Left Block Parliamentary Group for the choice of the issue which is indeed of greatest importance, as I welcome too - and allow me to do so - all those who accompany us in the galleries, in particular my fellow citizens of Maia. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we recognize the sensitivity of this issue and it is never too much to talk about housing policies. It is true that the country needs the lease market, because only it offers us alternatives to access to housing, but what the Left Block wants to do is precisely the reversal of the rental policies. No country in Europe affords the luxury of freezing the lease market, but the honourable Members. Parliamentary left-wing Members are still trying to destroy him. They burned or not, the gentlemen. Members are continuing Dr. Salazar's policies: let's freeze the rents! [[BE's protests.]] But it is good to note that, as it was very visible from the intervention we have just heard, this little government has done nothing or nothing about housing. The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen are good at talking about the problems, but we need to find solutions. Where are your solutions? There are almost two years of government, supported by your party, a third of the mandate has passed, and what we continue to watch is the announcements. Finally, many ads; fewer houses to rent; more expensive income; and a generalized escape from investment in housing for tourism. More, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen: they have done little and what they have done is not satisfactory. They were prepared to amend the law of the supported lease, which had been approved by our Government. A law, of course, that the gentlemen were tired of saying wrong. But, now, they are the residents of the social housing centers who say that your law does not provide and does not solve the problems. I recall, for example, a meeting that we had last week at the Urbanization of Our Lady of Conception in Guimarães, in which all the residents expressed their discontent with your law, not making excuses to hasten a set of amendments. I ask, Mrs Isabel Pires: what do you have to tell us about the fact that your law is not accepted by the residents? What do you have to tell us about the fact that residents do not agree to pay the income resulting from the application of your law?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u264	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u265	Finally, what solution do you have to present to them? Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u266	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u267	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Pires, I welcome you for the political statement produced and for the importance of the problem. Mrs Deputy mentioned the problem in Lisbon, in a very specific area of Lisbon, but this is a problem that clearly goes beyond that location, it is a problem that extends to the country and to which we are all sensitive. The Socialist Party, as it is well known, has fought for the defense of all those who face the lack of housing and who, to this difficulty, also associate serious problems of economic deficiency. Mrs Roseta has also been the face of this fight and the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group is developing work and efforts to find solutions, from then on, for emergencies, such as those mentioned here. We understand that this is not just a question of housing need. The problem is broader and more transversal, from the point of view of training and employment, which is why the policies to be implemented should include these aspects. But while building measures that are in the future, it is also necessary to find solutions that apply immediately, so that families, which, thanks to various adversitys, can face imminent evictions, can be protected. And an articulated measure may be the allocation of a temporary allowance, through social security or other entity, at the same time that the houses that the IHRU (Instituto da Habitação e da Rehabilitation Urbana) has available, although some of them needing works, and can thus solve cases where the risk of eviction is also associated with economic shortage. at the same time, we argue that a new national resettlement plan is needed, bearing in mind that only the local power has been intervening in these situations after 1993.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u268	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u269	At the same time, the liberalisation of the lease did not lead to incomes more compatible with the possibilities of families. I would say until, in many cases, it aggravated this problem. I therefore ask Mrs Isabel Pires whether the Left Bloc is available to accompany the Socialist Party in the efforts we are making with the Government and in the initiatives we are preparing, so that — and I would say this is the case with the creation of the basic lease law — to overcome much of these difficulties. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u270	In reply, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u271	Mr President, I would like to thank the honourable Members who have asked questions on this matter. Mrs Emília Santos, on what has been said here regarding the New Urban Rent Scheme (NRAU) and the effective consequences of emptying city centres, real estate speculation and the brutal increase in income, the PSD said nothing. Indeed, the social insensitivity that has been witnessed during your governance is currently being maintained in this debate. Want to ignore that historical centers, such as Lisbon, which was the example given, but also from Porto, Guimarães or Braga, are not under pressure, the result of real estate speculation which, in turn, was fueled by this new regime, approved by the previous government, is completely ignoring what has happened and what is happening today in cities and is not wanting to respond to the emergence of these people's lives. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u272	But, Mrs Deputies, on the issue you have raised, what is actually going on is not that the residents are against the proposal made; what is the fact is that the residents want and want us to go further in deepening that lease law. And in fact, what is needed is that these citizens are able to pay less income. And on this way, the Left Block, in Guimarães, but also in other places, accompanied and heard the citizens, was in the neighborhoods listening to people. Indeed, we want this deepening and we are working towards that deepening. But the PSD and now the CDS have never even followed these proposals that have been made. [[Protests by PSD Member Emília Santos.]] Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha, also thanking you for the questions raised, I would like to say that during this whole process, the Left Block has been, and is obviously committed to working and deepening all the legislation that has to do with housing policies that effectively respond to the citizens. He also gave some examples. The fact is that the liberalisation we have seen has not led to the improvement of the market, but rather to the expulsion of people — this is an acquired fact and a point of departure that we have together. So, looking at the problem and understanding what the problem is, we need to deepen. We have always been and will be available to deepen these same policies, because we are at risk of, in a few years' time — and I am not talking about decades, I speak for too few years — having historical centers that have no one who had been at the origin of these same neighborhoods and that is extremely serious. We cannot let this situation go away. And it is good that these debates also serve to deepen this. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u273	For another round of questions, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u274	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Pires, I would also like to congratulate you on your statement on this matter and to tell you that what you report well reflects the current reality of the city of Lisbon, which is, in fact, similar to what happened in other European capitals. This, by itself, should also serve to ensure that public institutions do not allow what has already happened in other cities to happen and that action is taken in this direction. This did not happen and, indeed, today, the city of Lisbon, but also the city of Porto and many other cities are faced with the problem of the impact of tourism on the right to housing and other rights, such as the issue of mobility and public transport. It is true that the problem of housing in the city of Lisbon is not now, but it is also true that, with the impact of « tourism», it has experienced very significant aggravations. It is obvious that this work was well prepared and that then the Minister of the CDS made an invaluable contribution. at the time, he didn't need to wear his rag pants, but he made a clear law. And, by making a law of the evictions that prepared this way, allowed the city centre, and the city as a whole, because the increase of costs had reflected throughout the city of Lisbon, clear its elderly and, with this, allow the brutal increase of the cost of incomes. Today, any young family or family who wants to buy or rent a house in the city of Lisbon encounters many difficulties, because prices are deeply inflated. For this reason, there is a direct responsibility of the PSD and the CDS with the approval of a law of evictions whose aim was not to protect the right to housing but rather to weaken the right to housing, transforming housing, which is a right enshrined in the Constitution, into a business for the economic groups, who knew how to take advantage of this offer of the then, Minister Assumption Cristas, who today is a candidate for the City Hall of Lisbon, comes to say that, after all, it is necessary to change clothes to visit social neighborhoods. We understand that this is a very important matter. In fact, immediate measures must be taken to prevent the impact of tourism from further removing citizens from the city of Lisbon and to enshrine the right to housing.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u275	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u276	I shall conclude, Mr President. The CFP is obviously committed to pursuing this path with proposals which we have tabled in the Assembly of the Republic, but which we want to continue to take, because there is a dimension of the approach to the problem that is local and that is authentic, but there are public responsibilities, on the part of IHRU and the Government, that cannot be left behind. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u277	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u278	Mr President, Mrs Isabel Pires, first of all, I would like to congratulate you on the importance of the subject that has brought us here, which is not today, and which must all be concerned. The desertification of historic centres, as well as the problem of housing, is surely a matter of concern to us. We are concerned throughout the national territory. We are concerned, for example, Mrs Rita Rato, the state in which the historic centre of Setúbal is completely abandoned, where no one, after 21 hours, risks walking,... [[PCP protests.]] ... or the historical center of Almada, where, with the Tejo Southern Metro — and with CDU mandates years after years of absolute majority of the CDU — repeat the clashes of the elderly,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u279	That was in the Far West!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u280	...because the South Tagus Metro, in Almada, is poorly signaled.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u281	You go little to the historic center of Setúbal!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u282	If Mr. João Oliveira let me speak... it is that we too are concerned about the historic centers of Setúbal and Almada, as we are with Lisbon.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u283	But don't go too far!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u284	The honourable Member did not resist talking about Lisbon and the desertification of the historic centre of Lisbon. Moreover, it is still curious that it is a chamber previously governed by the Socialist Party, indeed by the current Prime Minister that you support, and today also governed by someone from the Socialist Party who you back support. It seems that the Left Block has realized that the « Zé no longer needs». Let us, then, talk about what Mrs Deputy wanted to talk about, because her concern was not the historical center, nor her desertification, was Mrs Deputy Assumption Cristos. Let's be clear, let's be frank, here between the two of us that nobody hears us! Open... Madam Member, with regard to the reform of the Urban Rent Regime, made in 2012, because of the bankruptcy brought by a party that you support today, I must say that the 2012 reform has, as we have already said—and it is not worth saying otherwise, because a repeated lie does not become true—the most fragile and the most disadvantaged,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u285	I'd say! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u286	... that is, those over 65 years old, those with a degree of disability above 60 %, and those with incomes less than 35 000 € / year.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u287	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u288	In conclusion, Mrs Deputy, I also want to say, with regard to local accommodation, that, contrary to what Mrs Deputy said, most of the apartments and residences for tourists and the hostels are today installed in buildings that were unemployed. But this is a matter with which the Left Block does not seem to care. Madam Member, my question is this: do you really think it is a cause for the Left Block and the Left Block to defend what ultimately results from your speech, Mrs Deputies? It's just that, first, it looks like you guys are. Members of the Left Block are in favour of isolationism and against tourism and tourists and, second, and most extraordinary — and I give you here an opportunity to deny it - it seems they are, but are not sure, defending the binding regime of Prof. Oliveira Salazar. I don't want to believe the Left Block is defending this binding regime! That is why I give you the opportunity, Mrs Commissioner, to be able to deny it here. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u289	In reply, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u290	Mr President, I begin by thanking the questions raised. Mrs Rita Rato, in fact, what we have, when we talk about housing and housing policies, is a very important conjugation between housing policies at national level and housing policies at local level. And it is this conjugation that will certainly improve people's lives. And also taking as an example other European cities, which are both model for other things, but which, of course, are not an example for anything, and considering the solutions that are needed in this housing problem, what we have in Lisbon is that real estate speculation is currently swallowing city centers and throwing people out of cities. And I'm not talking about the outskirts of Lisbon itself because whoever has an income of about 600 € or 700 € and has a family can't find a T1, the more a T2, in the municipality of Lisbon. Just search anywhere that has houses available to rent.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u291	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u292	So what this means, and what the data also indicate, is that the historical center of the city is where prices are rising even more and where real estate speculation has had a stronger expression. What we are saying with the debate we want to have here is that public investment in IHRU is in fact necessary to enable it to make available the number of fires necessary for housing. We need to have a rental policy that is not a landfill law, sir. Ladies and gentlemen. It is that, at the time the law was passed, the Left Block was effectively not only in the social neighborhoods but also among many elderly populations of this and other cities and what you saw and heard was that people were being cleared. Therefore, it is not worth continuing to say that this was not a law of eviction. They're facts, the Left Block was there and talked to these people. If the CDS didn't talk to the people at the time and only remembered now, all right, but the Left Block was there and made a political proposal from that time up to now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u293	Did you? Oh, my God! Then tell me where it is!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u294	Therefore, what this debate highlights is that we cannot have a serious debate about housing with the CDS and the PSD,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u295	No, you have not put forward proposals!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u296	... that they have never been able to have serious policies on this subject and have always shown insensitivity to these populations. Therefore, the Left Block maintains its position of defending the right to housing, of public investment for housing, not only at the national level but also at the local level. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u297	Mrs. Members, at the end of the period for political declarations, we shall proceed to the stage of intervention under Article 76 ( 2 ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. The Bureau recorded the registration of three Mrs. Members for interventions in this point and determines Article 76 ( 2 ). what interventions should be alternated according to their parliamentary groups. Therefore, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira of the PSD will first have the floor, then Mr Renato Sampaio of the PS, and finally Mrs Angela Guerra of the PSD. It was also admitted by the Bureau, in accordance with the opinion requested by 1. the Commission, the principle of the possibility of requests for clarification in accordance with Article 71 ( 6 ). the, that provision which also prevails for political declarations, will therefore be admitted a request for clarification by each parliamentary group. It will also prevail the same methodology for the inclusion of Mr. Members who wish to ask for clarification, i.e. the Bureau will accept the entries until the end of the speech of the speaker. I think we're completely clear. You then have the floor, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u298	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is called the National Road No. 14 and binds Porto to Braga, crossing the municipalities of Maia, Trofa and Vila Nova de Famalicão. To talk about EN14 is to talk about the main transit distributor axis for access to seaports, airport and the trans-European motorway network for thousands of companies; it is to talk about one of the largest foreign direct investment concentrations; it is to talk about a route that serves approximately 1 million people, that crosses 30 industrial poles where about 128 000 people work; it is to talk about a road that supports 45 000 vehicles daily, including 6000 trucks. To talk about EN14 is to talk about a completely exhausted, unsafe and intransitable way. in this context, the construction of a road alternative is assumed as an absolutely structural, necessary and urgent work. Only with its construction will it be possible to increase the high industrial index located north of the Port Metropolitan Area and south of the Vale do Ave. It is worth recalling that when funds were available in abundance for this purpose, the socialist governments of Eng.o José Socrates preferred other roads, other highways, other investments. Today, as you can see, many of them are little or no use. It was the time of the highways without cars and the airports without planes, which had the order of heavily indebted the country. On the other hand, reproductive road infrastructures were forgotten, facilitating the export process and capable of reducing the costs of the business context. The alternative to EN14 is a good example. With the country going through a serious crisis, with no external financing adjusted and with the exhausted public safes, the former Government, PSD / CDS-PP, had to find, and found, a infrastructure solution other than the initial, realistic, concerted with the authorships, less expensive for the public record, but equally efficient. For various reasons, the work was phased out in its execution, a solution that deserved the widespread applause of the autoarchs, entrepreneurs and populations. Even in the last government, PSD / CDS-PP, the Infrastructures of Portugal cabimento, opened competition for the implementation of the first phase of the work and also began the expropriation process as well as studies and projects for the other phases. Unfortunately, with the takeover of the Government of Antonio Costa, Catarina Martins and Jerónimo de Sousa, it was soon realized that the greatest barrier to the advancement of this very important road infrastructure was exactly in the government itself — yes, in the government itself! — which, through the Minister for Planning and Infrastructure, did not delay giving the kick-off for a cycle of lies which seems to have no end. The current government lied; it lied when it said that the work was not up to date, knowing that it was running a public contest for its execution; it lied when it claimed that it needed to reassess the project — curiously, this statement was made at the end of the deadline for the submission of tenders for the first stage of the public contest —; it lied when it said that the work could only be done in full after it was assumed as good its execution phased. The truth is that since the end of June 2016 the current government has been — and is — able to award the first phase of this work, but it has preferred to launch it by March 2017 in the meantime to drop; the fact is that the government could and should have awarded the execution of the second stage, but has chosen to leave the competition in « swimmer ». It is a fact that, in March, the Government presented, with a pump and circumstances, the Valuation Programme of the Business Areas, where the — I quote — "improvement of accessibility to the areas of business location of the South Family / Ribeirão and Lousado". The Government has never fully clarified the scope of this intervention — and, we should say, it does not need to do so. by the summary description, it is clear that that intervention corresponds to a small part of the project prepared by the previous government. This means that instead of the 20 km of intervention designed, at best, we will have to be content with an alternative less than 4 km; it means that the EN14 between Maia and Trofa is exactly as it is; it means that the project of a new bridge over the river Ave was thrown into a drawer; it means that the promised, desired, necessary and indispensable construction of an alternative to EN14 between Maia, Trofa and Vila Nova de Famalicão is part of the past. If the conduct of the Minister for Planning and Infrastructure is deeply regrettable, what about the silence of the Minister for Economic Affairs? Why are they standing outside this debate? Does not the competitiveness of companies in that region concern you? And what about Dr. António Costa and his promise to fulfill the project presented by the PSD Government / CDS-PP if it was elected, because it said it was necessary to "give continuity, from legislature to legislature, to the works that are planned"? Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The abandonment of the construction of the alternative to EN14 is not a necessity, it is not the result of any taxable circumstance, it does not occur due to any technical impediment, it is only a political option of this government, choice and political option that the government, weakly, does not want to take. [[PSD applause.]] The Maia-Trofa-Vila Nova de Famalicão axis is one of the most productive territories in the country, where private investment is greater, where the private initiative invests hundreds of millions of euros a year. But for the government of the union of the left, there is nothing — nothing! — justifying progress with the construction of two tens of kilometers. However, it is not clear who thinks that only the people and businesses in that territory are penalized. The Maia-Trofa-Vila Nova Family axis is the main hub for the country's transformer, which requires road access routes that do not hinder the productivity and competitiveness of its companies. The Maia-Trofa-Vila New Family Axis, Mrs. and Mrs. Members, it is the main exporter of the country, representing a turnover of 11, 5 billion euros per year. The construction of an alternative to EN14 therefore has a national dimension: it is the economic growth of the country concerned, it is the competitiveness of the Portuguese economy that is at stake, it is the future of at least 30 000 companies and at least 128 000 jobs which are at stake. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: That is all that is at stake. The autoarchs are committed, the populations are committed, the business associations are committed, the entrepreneurs are committed, until the Secretary-General of the UGT (General Workers' Union ) is concerned, he is committed to what should be a national design. All — all! — they're worried, they're all committed. Everyone... everybody, no! Everyone, no! The left-wing union government is neither concerned nor committed, because if it were to be, it would never have abandoned this project.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u299	Another Tonekas!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u300	The truth is that the alternative to EN14 could be a reality by now next year. Unfortunately, this will not happen because this is not the will, because this is not the option of the Government of Antonio Costa, Catarina Martins and Jerome de Sousa. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u301	Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, two Mrs. Members to request clarifications, Mr Nuno Sá of the PS, and Mrs Carla Cruz of the CFP. You will be pleased to inform the Bureau of how you intend to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u302	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u303	Mr Nuno Sá has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u304	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the first time I address this House in this Parliament, I want to introduce all Members and all Members. Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, famous as I do, and who also knows EN14, if by any chance his name is not Tomás, because « well prays Brother Tomás, better says it, worse does it». I would like to ask Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, who was here, applauded, fully supported the previous government, which you did to advance with the EN14 variant. Now say it, sir! What did the right coalition do in these years all of government to move forward with the alternative to EN14? [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, you have to be nervous and not ashamed to do the intervention you have made. But no, he was not ashamed of Mr. Deputies as he did not have his leader and Prime Minister of the previous right coalition, Pedro Passos Coelho, who went to the Trofa — Mr. Deputies have short memories, I will remind him of some facts — say in September 2015 that the machines were already on the ground for the new variant for EN14. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What happened, sir? Nothing! Not a millimeter! Nothing happened. What happened, honourable Member, was that, in a project of a variant that was being dealt with, having advanced with the procedures by the Socialist Party and its governments, VV. For example, to buy time—because they really didn't want to do anything or do anything—they proposed moving from a project to a small project and so came to such a story of a new variant, which was no more than a road to each side, which neither served the economy nor the population nor mobility. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u305	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u306	I will finish, Mr. President. And with that they delayed everything, because, truly, they did not want or succeed in doing anything. I will finish, Mr President, by saying that you have done two more things. They made an absurd project, i.e., they forgot the environmental impact statement with a new crossing over the Ave and they had a three-phase project, which, if advanced, would make the transit not only cloud the entire area of the Trofa municipality but also finish the project. In addition, they have withdrawn from the negotiations from the Community framework 2020 — which is unforgivable — any money to insist on the road.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u307	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u308	I'm done, Mr. President. And they have withdrawn, which is unforgivable, from the negotiations of the Community framework 2020, all and any money to insist on the road. That's what you guys did! Have a look, Mr Member, and do not come here to make political campaign numbers and deceive the populations served by the national road No 14! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u309	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the regular development of our work, you will understand that the Bureau must be demanding about the fulfilment of the times. To ask questions, you have the floor to Mrs. Carla Cruz.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u310	Mr President, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira, the first question I put to you is where the honourable Member was when, successively, the CFP presented proposals, either in the budget of the State or as a draft resolution, in particular in the previous Parliament, and which could solve the problem that, I remind you, more than 20 years ago, is claimed by the populations of Vila Nova de Famalicão, Maia and the Trofa councils. Where was the honourable Member? I tell you, Mr. Member : I was on the side of the PSD Government / CDS-PP,... [[PCP and PS applause.]] ... voting against the proposals which the CFP presented here and which would solve the problems of these populations. But what you also said is true, it is a necessary investment, it is an investment that we continue to fight for it to be done and, therefore, we have brought it, already in this Parliament, with several questions to the government, in order to be answered. The honourable Member said that this is an investment necessary for the most exporting city, for the most exporting municipality in the country. He also spoke of 128 000 jobs, but he forgot to mention the precariousness, lack of quality in employment and the lack of ties with which these companies supply their workers. And above all, what was forgotten to say was that while they had government responsibilities, while they had the power to resolve the issue of EN14 and the issues with which the Tesco workers, Mabor and so many others confront themselves there, the PSD did not resolve, the honourable Member did not contribute to the resolution,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u311	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u312	... before the contrary, it contributed to aggravating the situation of those populations, of those workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u313	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u314	And, therefore, the question I put to you, Mr President, is the following: how is it that the honourable Member has the power to come now to defend something which, when he had responsibilities and when he had the opportunity to solve the problem, has he not resolved? [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u315	To reply, Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor, which has 3 minutes to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u316	Mr President, I would like to thank you for your questions. Mr Nuno Sá and Mr Carla Cruz. Both ask : « Where was Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira in the previous Parliament? Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Mr Jorge Paulo, in the previous Parliament, was sitting next to the PSD Government / CDS-PP, I repeat, next to the PSD Government / CDS-PP! alongside a government which, in the former legislature, unlike the Government of the Socialist Party, of the Government of Mr Nuno Sá, which, when there was money for this purpose, when there were Community funds for this purpose, had other options,... [[Protests]] ... decided to invest in other highways, other airports, make investments. It was the time of highways without cars and airports without planes. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS and PCP protests.]] What did Mr. Jorge Paulo Oliveira do? Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira was next to the PSD Government / CDS-PP, which, without external funding secured, with the empty boxes — I repeat, with the empty boxes — in a period of great economic crisis in the country, what did he do?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u317	It was 4 million for BES!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u318	The former government... [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]] Mr. President, I'm trying to continue, but it's not easy...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u319	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to ask you, not me, but the House as a whole, to create conditions for the honourable Member to finish his reply. You would like to continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u320	Thank you very much, Mr President. It was the previous government, in particularly difficult circumstances, that found a different infrastructure solution than the initial, realistic, concerted with the autoarchs and efficient, equally efficient. And what did the government do? The government did the project, the government qualified the work, the government launched the competition for the first stage, launched the competition for the second stage and launched the competition for the third and fourth phases projects.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u321	You have to tell me where they are!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u322	Lata has the government of Dr. António Costa, Catarina Martins and Jerome de Sousa, which have hardly reached the government, what have they done? They put the first stage of the public contest in the drawer. Yeah, they got in the drawer! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u323	The first stage of the competition, Mr. Mr Carla Cruz and Mr Nuno Sá could have been awarded in June 2016 and we are in May 2017. Why does your government not award the work? Why did the government put the second stage of the work in the drawer? Why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u324	Tell me where the projects are!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u325	The honourable Member and the honourable Member have to have a lot to do with it so that, after the government has suspended this project, they will say that the PSD and I are on the wrong side. Have patience, can have VV. Ex. That's enough! [[PSD applause.]] [[PS, BE and PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u326	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I see the climate is rising. I now give the floor to Mr Renato Sampaio to make an intervention in accordance with Article 76 ( 2 ). the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u327	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members :I use this regiment figure to talk about my district and my region— Porto and the North. But first, let me make a reference to the appearance of the devil: it is that he came himself and appeared on St. Caetano Street to Lapa, still passing through the Long Caldas. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u328	It's Rui Moreira!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u329	It is that this week several positive economic indicators have been released to our country. The INE ( National Institute of Statistics ) published data according to which economic growth in the first quarter, compared to the same period of 2016, was 2,8 %. It takes 17 years to 2000 to find more intense economic growth than this 2017. The economy grew above the euro area for the second consecutive quarter, in line with Europe, when in a recent past there was a sharp divergence. Exports continue to increase their growth; in the first two months of this year, exports of goods have grown 13, 8 %, the largest growth in the last six years. The investment is recovering, grew substantially at the end of last year, even the largest growth of the last six years in terms of chain growth. It grew at the end of 2016, eight times more than at the end of 2015. The economic climate, which reflects the confidence of the various economic actors, has also risen, and has reached the maximum value of the last 15 years. The available income of families grew by 3, 2 % in 2016. It's the biggest growth in the last eight years. It is recalled that, during right-wing governance, family income had fallen 6, 5 %. These results have a strong positive impact on economic operators, consumers and businesses. Employment last March showed the highest growth in the last 18 years — 3, 4 %. It's the biggest job creation there's been. There are more 151 400 new net jobs created in Portugal in the last year, more than twice as much as in 2015. The unemployment rate returns to one digit, 9, 8 %, something that has not occurred eight years since February 2009. There are fewer than 108,300 unemployed, compared to last year, an 18% drop, the biggest drop in unemployment in the last 18 years. Also, and according to the disclosed data, the number of people at risk of poverty and social exclusion is the lowest since 2011, decreasing 1, 5 percentage points. These are the results of an alternative path pursued by this government. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I now refer to the district of Porto and our region, a district and a region with the socialist brand, either through the work of its autarches, either by the action of the governments of the Socialist Party, who, at all times, and unlike others, have managed to see further and starring mobilization projects for Porto and the North.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u330	The port or the district? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u331	Mr. Deputy, I've always talked about the Port District! Whenever the Socialist Party reaches the Government of Portugal, there is an increase in public investments in the district and the north, which contribute to economic and social development but above all to the quality of life of citizens. This was the case with investments in mobility and accessibility with the road, rail and metro networks of Porto ; so it was with investments in airport and port infrastructures, with Porto and the port of Leixões, where the terminal of cruises gains special relevance ; so it was with investments in education, with the requalification of dozens of schools and schools or in health, with the construction of health centres, the creation of the USF (Family Health Unit) and the improvement of hospital centers ; so it was with investments in higher education, with the construction of the new faculties of Medicine, Pharmacy and the Institute of Biomedical Sciences Abel Salazar. But this was also the case with investments in social areas, with the construction of equipment to support older people and children. Even so, we recognize that not everything is well, but we do not resign in times of crisis and do not give up on our problems, because this is a time of great challenges and not a time for depressive and depressing desistence or speech. This has been the case in the past, so it is in the present, to think about the future. Again, the PS, back to the government, decides again to bet on port and north, because in port and north, at a critical and difficult time and in a particularly demanding international environment, we have companies and entrepreneurs who have shown exceptional resistance capacity, with ambition and willingness to win. in Porto and in the North we have companies and institutions with a brand of innovation, modernity, quality and competitiveness, and therefore we are the most exporting region in the country and we all know that exports are the engine that drives the economy. The port district has over the years a surplus trade balance situation by revealing import coverage rates for exports over 100 %. In 2016, the district trade balance balance was over EUR 460 million and improved EUR 6 million compared to the previous year. With a value of EUR 8766 million in 2016, exports from the port district contributed 17 % to national exports and 43 % to North region exports. at the beginning of this year, 2017, exports in the district significantly increased their rate of growth, 10 % between January and February. The commercial balance, already positive, has substantially improved in the first two months of the year, plus EUR 51 million, representing an increase of 61 %. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Public investment and the creation of quality infrastructure and equipment are essential for a development strategy of our economy, for job creation and for improving the quality of life of citizens. This is a road that cannot stop, in response to the challenges of modernity, by making an important contribution to overcoming the crisis. Thus, the Government of the Socialist Party is committed to valuing business areas with an investment of EUR 98 million. in the railroad, the problems of the inheritance left on the Douro Line with the stopping of works between Caíde and Marco de Canaveses, which, however, were resumed, decided to extend the electrification to the River, solving its constraints as well as the resumption of the modernization of the North Line in the section between Valadares and Gaia. But the most serious was what happened with Portugal 2020. When the current government took possession, Portugal 2020 was blocked, there were only EUR 4 million payments made to companies, relating to 15 projects, and the authorities could not even submit applications. The Government has given priority to the acceleration of Portugal 2020 and thus only in the North region are already approved under business incentive systems over EUR 5600 million of business investment, representing 47 % of the national total. at the level of territorial investment, to be carried out by the authorities and already approved, are more than 500 million euros of investment, when in the previous government applications were closed. in education, we resume the path of valuing school equipment, with contracts already granted between the Ministry of Education and the municipalities, for the transfer of eligibility, within the framework of the application to the Community framework, corresponding to a total investment of 41, 5 million euros in 30 schools, attended by more than 20 000 students. Health has always been a priority for the PS and, thus, in the Porto district, investments in the value of more than 100 million euros for the construction of new health centres, remodeling and requalification of hospitals, as well as the acquisition of priority treatment equipment and the renewal of hospital infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u332	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u333	I'm done now, Mr. President. The hiring of more health professionals to improve care is a premence that has not been forgotten. Environmental policies have returned to the political agenda, and I give some examples: for the expansion of the Port Metro network there is an allocation of EUR 290 million; for coastal policies there are EUR 7 million; for the STCP(Port Collective Transport Society ) there are EUR 50 million for the purchase of electric cars and gas; and for the purchase of environmental services cars EUR 1, 5 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u334	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u335	Thank you, Mr. President, this is just a moment. Resolutions of inherited environmental liabilities have not been forgotten, and EUR 10 million is already planned for the resolution of São Pedro da Cova waste. But these are the results of the reversal made by this Government of the Socialist Party to an austerity policy carried out by the previous Government. This is the reality that should encourage us to pursue our strategy with consistency and determination.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u336	Mr. Deputy, conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u337	I would even say that this is the reality that is being imposed and the strategy that we are obliged to. This is the way that the PS Government is committed to pursue, ensuring political stability that is indispensable to the fulfilment of the task that Porto, the North, the Country, the Portuguese of us demand. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u338	Mr President, there has been much tolerance from the Bureau. I would like to inform you that, to request clarification, three Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you want to respond, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u339	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u340	So Mr Jorge Machado has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u341	Mr President, Mr Renato Sampaio, in addition to welcoming your statement, we want to associate ourselves with it. It is true that the Port district has a very significant set of potentials to contribute to national wealth. It is true that we have recorded some economic indicators that are to be welcomed, but we do not share any prospect of « putting the head on the sand », as far as the problems facing the district are concerned. In fact, as a result of several decades of right-wing policy, we have very serious problems in dealing with the district, since the degradation of public services, because it is a reality that lives with particular size and concern in the Port district, and we have very serious social problems. Despite the results and some improvement of what social indicators are, the fact is that the district of Porto had, and has, the largest number of beneficiaries of social income of insertion (RSI), which means that there are problems of distribution of wealth and there is significant poverty. The Port district still has a high number of unemployment, wages and pensions below the national average. This is a reality that matters to caution. There is an urgent need for public investment that dynamizes national production and effectively improves the living conditions of populations in the Port district. But more than talking about the theoretical plan, it is important to go to the concrete plan. Thus, the PCP has, in recent weeks, presented a set of initiatives that go through, among other things, a draft resolution that promotes the dynamization of the goldsmiths sector, which is of great importance in the district, by a bill for the reduction of the age of reform of the workers of the stone yards who suffer brutally from those working conditions, by resolution projects, with regard to transport, for the recovery of the Lexion Line for passengers or for a mobility plan within the port district that is important to guard. We have our positions on the necessary investments with regard to the Metro. We therefore have a number of initiatives that were important to discuss here. It has also been mentioned here that the port district contributes, and much, to national wealth...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u342	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u343	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that despite this, the Port district still has very serious problems with regard to what is injustice in the distribution of wealth. Question: What is the Socialist Party's willingness to address these specific problems that we put here? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u344	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u345	Mr President, Mr Renato Sampaio, in fact, the data tell us that the Portuguese economy has exceeded all forecasts. It is good economic news that undoubtedly contradicts the PSD and CDS forecasts and, as you said with these numbers, it is necessary to go back more than a decade to find a uniform change in GDP the same as 1. the quarter of 2017. It is necessary to go back to the beginning of the century to find a higher value. This means that it is possible to grow without punishing people; it means that the return of income is also producing results; it means that all those who said that there were alternatives to austerity, which, in fact, marked the policies of the PSD and the CDS; it means that austerity was not, as it is not, an inevitability; it means that the change of policies is productive and that it is in fact necessary. We will now hope that the Portuguese will continue to benefit from this change of policy and that these numbers will reflect on the lives of people, families and the quality of public services provided to citizens. Mr Renato Sampaio is right, the devil has come! The devil even came, but did not come to the Portuguese, did not come to our economy, nor did he come to the government, the devil came to the PSD and the CDS. And why? Because the country is better. In fact, this quarter was even the devil for the PSD and the CDS. Mr Renato Sampaio, the question I want to leave to you is the following: does it seem strange to you, or does it not, that those who, when there were doubts, said that the devil was coming there, now before the numbers, are claiming the paternity of the work, saying that the merit is also from the previous government? [[Congrats from the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u346	Mr Jorge Campos has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u347	Mr President, Mr Renato Sampaio, I would like to thank you for your intervention, because you have come to remind us that, in fact, the country is better, you have come to remind us that the indicators that have now emerged reflect this same improvement. Of course, what he told us contradicts another narrative, which says that the results are passed from the past, which is something extraordinary, but, finally, it is perceived to be said. On the other hand, the honourable Member here drew a portrait of the city of Porto and the district of Porto that seemed to be in the admirable New World, and, indeed, it is not at all that reason. As far as the city of Porto is concerned, there are still many problems. It is, for example, one of the regions in the country, where there is the greatest endemic poverty, with a huge incidence rate of tuberculosis, for example, in terms of health, with the largest number of beneficiaries of RSI. There's still a lot to improve, and there's a lot to do. We've done a lot. In addition, part of this course at national level was done together with the Socialist Party, with the PCP and with the Greens Ecological Party, but, Mr President, what I want to ask is whether or not you understand that there is still a lot to do. Mr President, there is something else I cannot but ask. with regard, in particular, to the city of Porto, until now, we had a Socialist Party that was in the municipal chamber in coalition and, in the next elections, presents itself in a different situation from that in which he was with a candidate himself. Now, this raises the following question: what is wrong with what they have done so far? Or what's good is what you're gonna do from now on? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u348	To reply, Mr Renato Sampaio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u349	Mr President, first of all, allow me to point out the absence of the PSD in this debate, which shows how they have been completely filled with these results. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mr. Jorge Machado, it is true that not everything is well, I recognize, but we have left a complicated social situation in the district of Porto, because the PSD and the CDS, as a government, have transformed the labour capital port into capital of unemployment. We are aware that this is a scourge, but here too things have improved significantly, because we cannot forget that the port district, when the PSD and the CDS left the government, had 170 000 unemployed people, leaving many apples and many wounds for healing. But with our government, the situation in the district has changed: in the last year, between March 2016 and March 2017, there was a 16% fall in the number of unemployed, minus 20 777, only within one year. Between March 2015, the year in which the right left the Government, and March this year fewer than 25,648 unemployed registered in the Port district. It is a break in unemployment of 19 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Unemployment is a scourge. The government is paying attention to this problem and, therefore, the economy is fundamental to job creation, investment bet. in the district of Porto, both private investment and public investment have risen significantly. Mr. José Luís Ferreira, it is obvious that I am substantially in agreement with you. It is true that the right said the devil was coming, and the truth is that he came to St. Caetano's Street to Lapa, passing through the Long Caldas, as I said from the rostrum. Mr. Jorge Campos, initially, I said that I was talking about the district of Porto, our region, the North region, and that's what I meant. So when I refer to Porto, I mean, obviously, the district. As for the city of Porto and its management, the only thing I can tell you is that everything the PS has done before and in the management that is in progress has done well. As for the rest, they do not hold the Socialist Party responsible. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u350	For an intervention under Article 76 ( 2 ). the Rules of Procedure have the floor to Mrs. Angela Guerra.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u351	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in the Square of the Republic, where one of the most emblematic buildings of the municipality, the Quartel das Squadras, a building included in the special area of protection of the walls of the square, or the beautiful Church of Mercy, is also located the two-storey building that the General Deposit Box has occupied for more than 30 years. There are some, stubborn, small businesses, such as a mini-market, a shoe shop, a coffee shop and the famous Ginjinha from Casa da Amélina. « To me, this is a bomb! "" says one of the owners of one of the so-called bar business, who, in a mixture of discouragement and indignation, laments, saying: "He who went to Caixa represented between 10 % and 15 % of my home's clientele, which has been open for 22 years! on the days of the week, since the closing of the counter, the difference is already noted! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Others, who are approaching, add: “The interior country is dying! But it's there in Lisbon that they're killing him! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Almeida, the star of the interior, magnificent historical village of Portugal, will be the only headquarters of the country to see itself deprived of the treasury services of the General Deposit Box, indispensable for the normal daily functioning of all existing public distributions there, pensioners, migrants, the elderly population and all other population of this municipality. « What about then? », ask some. What are the consequences of the extinction of a counter like this? For example, a pensioner, of the approximately 2500 of this council, who does not have a debit card associated with his account—and the vast majority does not have or, then, does not know how to use it—or does not have a code card, becomes deprived of performing, among other basic services, deposits or cash or cheques, compulsory payments in the Box, such as the Single Document on Recovery, foreign exchange operations, payments to the State or requests for financing. They are, therefore, a sort of second-aged citizens who live far away, in a forgotten interior or only used in beautiful days of political proclamations. Those are the ones for whom, when anything goes wrong by the capital, invariably, remains the expense. It is those for whom any difficulty in one of the public divisions that remains there, such as the court, the notary, the conservatories of registration, the finance service, the CTTs, the schools, the health centre, the GNR position or even the municipal chamber, will become a permanent calvary of necessary travel to Vilar Formoso, traveling 30 km, going back, and paying about 25 € for each of them, with pensions of about 200 €. Yes, because we are talking about a municipality that has no public transport, no daily, no weekly, no monthly transport, and that, although it has about 8,000 inhabitants, it has 518 km2 of territory, where therefore several cities in Lisbon are located. It has a lot of heritage to protect and value, boosting the local economy, generating jobs and setting up many people who have chosen to educate their children there and who have exactly my rights as any other citizen who lives in another town on the coast of the country. But against all expectations, Mr. President and Mr. Members, last May 30, 2016 and after a hard work, the municipality of Almeida was able to see its name included in the nomination shared with UNESCO World Heritage. This was a joint candidacy with the municipalities of Elvas, Marvão and Valença and finally achieved the inclusion of the Allied Fortresss of the Raia in the Indicative List of Portugal to the World Heritage, representing for the country the international recognition of a unique heritage in the context of European civilization, with unique examples of military architecture, culture and history, with a character of exceptionality such that it is potentiator of the preservation of this legacy and dynamizer of culture and tourism. This same said Mr. President of the Elvas Chamber, who, after the UNESCO classification in 2012, also reported having tourism in his city increased by 320 % since it was sought by visitors from several countries of the world. As for the village of Almeida and its beautiful 12-point star fortress, at the same time as the honourable Members. Ministers for Culture and Foreign Affairs supported their important candidacy by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance announce the closure of the public bank counter. At the same time, as if only one misfortune were not enough, the Minister of Internal Administration announces, with days of difference, the closure of the Police and Customs Cooperation Centre at the most important land border of the country during the night. But stay calm, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, because it seems that it has also been agreed with potential criminals who, now in those bands, will only work on a daily basis. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the balcony of Almeida, say in the payment of truth, does not pay any income, because the facilities are their own and their staff of employees and management are exactly the same ones that remain today in the delegation of Vilar Formoso. That is to say, those who think they're going to save a penny there are unchallenged. On these so-called savings in a restructuring plan, which nobody knows, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Finance has just announced that by 2020 there will be a reduction of 2200 workers. The same governor also stated that the decision to close counters is for the administration of the Box and that the Government's position was only to make a set of guidelines on the following criteria. What criteria, Minister for Finance? Minister, this one, who has disappeared these days and, on this subject, resigns, but smiles, always smiles. What criteria? Are the objective, universal, transparent criteria that meet the specificities of low-density territories and their demographic profile and that ensure the principle of equity? Or, rather, those who are in total disagreement, in the face of the national strategy of territorial cohesion and public policies of appreciation of the interior? That National Programme for Territorial Cohesion, approved by this government and developed by the Mission Unit, with 164 strategic measures, which would save our territories from within, is a shame! I well remember listening, precisely in Vilar Formoso, to Prof. Dr. Helena Freitas making the announcement of this fantastic Program, which so far, to the municipality and people of Almeida, only brought closures and abandonment of the territory. Those who have drawn up this announcement here and have dismissed the PSD's proposals for establishing a low-density territory status will no longer have any doubts.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u352	Very well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u353	If that status were in force, these public services would never be involved, with or without associated profits. [[PSD applause.]] But one question remains in the population of the municipality of Almeida : why do so many banks have to close? Does this have anything to do with overcapitalization? Oh, my God! Was the injection of public capital on the option of this government superior to what would be effectively necessary? Oh, my God! As a counterpart imposed by the European Commission, has cost reduction and infrastructure become more than expected? Oh, my God! One thing is certain, this is the choice of this government and the strangest of all is that, without any reasonable invocation of any criterion of economic rationality, associated with what must be the provision of a public service paid by all of us taxpayers, it is to see those who previously defended the public bank now favour it, with their wrong decisions, precisely the private bank. It's really a terrible cynicism! That's right, sirs. Members of the PS, the Bloc and the Communist Party!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u354	For anyone who wanted to privatize, nothing bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u355	Now, in these territories, only they stay exclusively there, see there, the private ones and, strangely, in the vast majority of the localities, is always the same private. Almeida is the only city hall that looks sad to see your cassa counter, public bank, close, but it seems that the proposed cut-off plan was rethinked and, after all, some balconies have already left that black list. For example, the closure of the balcony of São Vicente da Beira, in Castelo Branco, was rethinked, and well! Is it because it is a territory led by the PS? The closure of the Texoso counter, in Covilhã, was rethinked, and well! Is it because it's a PS parish board? The closure of the counter of Mourão was rethinked, and well! Is that the same reason? Is it the PS who rules your territory? The closure of the Lajes do Pico balconies in the Azores, and of Vila Praia de Anchora were rethinked, and well, in my opinion, and everyone, of the PS! Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the General Deposit Box is a state bank — that is, of all Portuguese — it is not a bank like the others. If the Box does not exist to meet certain purposes of public interest, then what does it serve? Therefore, the Fund cannot fail to take into account, in its restructuring plan, the adaptation of efficiency rules which also contemplate the existence of minimum public service services and objectives and which continue to justify precisely its public ownership. Finally, and regardless of these aspects, it is not conceivable that a public company such as Caixa should consider itself in a position not to receive chamber presidents, who represent the populations of their councils, and not to explain what alternatives they have to overcome the failures of such a restructuring plan. It is not acceptable what is happening and that the Prime Minister and the Ministers consider it normal and justifiable not to answer before Parliament or that the administrations of public undertakings treat autarchies in the manner in which Box has treated the President of the Chamber of Almeida. They are due explanations to the populations and their autarchs, with respect and not with pride and arrogance. For Almeida, about times gone, when the French invaded our territories, cried out with joy: « Soul to Almeida! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Now, its authors warn: "There are wars that are won and lost, but I assure you our fight will continue! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” The same soldiers at the time, who reiterated to the exhaustion" And from Almeida before the soul always! And the people of Almeida, who are present among us today, are absolutely right! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u356	Mrs Angela Guerra, the Bureau has registered, to request clarifications, four Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u357	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u358	Mr Santinho Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u359	Mr President, Mrs. Angela Guerra, I begin by congratulating you on the opportunity to have brought our Guard to Parliament, in this particular case our Almeida, and to tell you that I expected from you the statement you made, but I was sorry to have tried to politicize a matter that only together will we be able to overcome. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Deputy did not resist the temptation to bring people from Almeida to this debate, but on this subject, like anyone else who says about our district, Vilar Formoso or Almeida, I can ask for measures because I have always beaten myself in the best possible way and I understand that I am the right one and the most capable of giving results in the intransigent defense by maintaining the General Deposit Box counter in Almeida. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have done even something that must have been unpublished, at least in this Parliament: the four Members elected by the Guard have agreed on a text to be sent to the General Deposit Box in order to achieve this goal together. We have no doubt that more serious than the closure of the Box in Almeida counter was the signal given to all the inside that, from now on, whenever any service damages or, at least, does not profit, there will be a reform of this public service, and it is by the inside that will continue. This brings into question what was this government's commitment to the people. That is why we need to be together to overcome this situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u360	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u361	Mrs. Ángela Guerra, we must understand one thing: when they appointed the President of the General Deposit Box, they were audacity to say that he was good because he had been Minister of the previous Government, but now that the Government responds that the management of the Box is absolutely autonomous and that the Government will not interfere in this management, they already wanted former Minister Paulo Macedo to be ordered by the Government. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u362	Mr. Santinho Pacheco, you must conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u363	Madam Member, no longer politicize, let us join hands with the Autarchs of Almeida and do justice to this town, keeping the General Deposit Box. It is a shame that a municipality in our district is the only headquarters in the country that does not have the public bank. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u364	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u365	Mr President, Mrs. Angela Guerra, the closure of the General Deposit Box counters is a mistake. The Left Block has already said it, continues to say it and continues to beat to reverse these measures. It is a mistake to close any counter of the General Deposit Box, and that of Almeida is -in particular, because closing counters questions the provision of public banking services that the General Deposit Box has an obligation to lend to the population. Closing a counter, in particular that of Almeida, calls into question the presence in the territory of the General Deposit Box and the proximity it has to have with the population and also questions the accessibility of the population to banking services. In addition to this closure in Almeida, it is an error any closure that happens, as was an error the closure of 109 counters, which the PSD and CDS made in the past. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] We hope that the political statement by Mrs Angela Guerra will be an apology to all the people who have seen their balconies closed, as well as to all the populations who will be closed, in their territory, the CTT balconies, or the distribution of funds, or even reduced the hospital or health centres. I hope it's an apology. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u366	Mr Moisés Ferreira, I apologize for interrupting, but I would like to ask the honourable Members. Members to be kind enough to create conditions for the honourable Member to be able to express himself and others to hear. I would like to continue, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u367	Thank you very much, Mr President. Surely those who listen to us understand why the storm is coming! There are those who bet on amnesia and people's forgetfulness, but no one, no one, forget it! But we are going to the political statement by the honourable Member, particularly on the theme of the General Deposit Box. As I said, we also hope that this statement will be, once and for all, the assumption of the PSD's guilt by the way he treated the General Deposit Box in the past,... [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u368	...because the PSD intended to privatize the General Deposit Box. [[Don't...!]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u369	They have now discovered, in the opposition, the advantages of a public bank, but, as power, they subcapitalized the Box and, even knowing the difficulties why the Box was passing, they did not move forward to a new recapitalisation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u370	Without delay, I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u371	I shall finish, Mr President, by saying that what Caixa lives today is also the fault of the PSD. I would therefore ask the honourable Member whether his statement was to take those blame. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u372	Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u373	Mr President, Mrs Ángela Guerra, I begin by congratulating and thanking you for the statement you have brought us, expressing concern at the closure of the General Deposit Box in Almeida, this concern which, moreover, the CFP has already had the opportunity to express for several times, particularly in the concentrations which the population has made in Almeida against the closure of the counter, where I hope that the honourable Member has also been, although we have not seen it. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs Deputies, it is worth noting that a Member who supported a government that impoverished the populations of the interior, which kept the tolls in A25 and A23, and serves both of them in the Guard district, but in particular in the A25, which is the one that serves Almeida, which penalized the populations and forced them to leave that territory many times, which prevented them from going along the paths necessary to reach further, to get to another counter, which removed the resources so that they could get there, now complain about closing that counter. This complaint, Mrs Deputy, makes all the sense, it is only strange that it comes from the PSD, and this was the party that put that population in an even worse situation than it already was, after years of right-wing policies. Mrs. Member, the PCP is against the closure of the General Deposit Box counters, has expressed this position on all occasions and the population of Almeida can count on the PCP to defend the General Deposit Box counters. The PSD is that it cannot count on the PCP to whiteen its responsibilities and policy options throughout history, particularly in the General Deposit Box, no longer to speak of the others I mentioned here, as well as, for example, in the closure of courts, which I have recently forgotten to mention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u374	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u375	I'm done now, Mr. President. But, not to mention these options, let's talk about the General Deposit Box. The PSD opted to capitalize the General Deposit Box below the needs, manifestly below the needs, favoring the way of privatization that it was defending for the General Deposit Box. Now, the restructuring plan with which the country is now confronted, imposed by Brussels, and it does not appear that the PSD contests it,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u376	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u377	... it is precisely the government's choice that the war MP strongly supported. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u378	Mr João Almeida has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u379	Mr President, Mrs. Angela Guerra, both ways of being in politics are clear and are expressed in this debate. One of these ways is to have responsibility for the options that are taken and answered by these options with the responsibility that we actually have. And here, recognize the PS, as well as the PSD and the CDS, has the responsibility to do. There is another way to be in politics, which is to do as the Block and the PCP : when the agencies of the General Deposit Box close in the previous government, the blame is on the PSD and CDS, which supported the previous government ; when the agencies of the General Deposit Box close in the current government, the blame remains on the PSD / CDS government, because the Left Block and the PCP, which support the current government, there is no responsibility. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not a question of being right or wrong, it is a matter of having or not being serious, and on this matter you are unbeatable!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u380	in this matter you are an authority!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u381	They're completely unbeatable!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u382	And you are an authority!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u383	They're completely unbeatable! But here is a relevant question: effectively the CDS has a clear position on the General Deposit Box. The General Deposit Box, being a public bank, as a bank has to meet the efficiency criteria, cannot exclude them, and by its public nature cannot also forget the equity criteria in management, in particular with regard to its network of agencies and banking services that it provides to citizens. It was with these principles that during the difficulties that we experienced in the previous government the administration of the General Deposit Box went into closures, and it would not have been by chance that these closures did not have the challenge they now have. We were able to respond to the criteria which, at the time, presided over these closures, for the efficiency and equity that were inherent in those decisions, and we answered so well that we did not have the consequence that this decision now took during the governance of the Socialist Party. And we didn't have because closing agencies where there is redundancy and alternative is different from closing where there is no redundancy or alternative. This is all a difference as to what happened with the previous government and what is happening with the current government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u384	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u385	I shall conclude with two questions, Mr President. Mrs. Angela War, are you able to tell us how many agencies there are here in Parliament? This is because, for Mr Santinho Pacheco to solve his problem, there had to be a number of agencies, since he says: "The General Deposit Box agency is closed in Parliament because of Almeida". So, what about the councils where it's unfair to close the General Deposit Box, Mr. Deputies? Oh, my God! That's not the problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u386	You must conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u387	I wanted to ask you, Mrs. Angela Guerra, about the essence of the problem: what is the criterion of efficiency that the General Deposit Box has to not close all the agencies of the General Deposit Box that are in municipalities or in the management fregetes of the Socialist Party? What is the reason why what is socialist management is not closed and what is not closed? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u388	To reply, you have the floor to Mrs. Angela Guerra, available for this purpose for 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u389	Mr. President, thank you to the honourable Members. Mr Santinho Pacheco, Moisés Ferreira, Miguel Tiago and João Almeida the questions they asked me and I want to say that, frankly, I don't care who this responsibility is. What matters to me is the population of Almeida that is left without this public service. This is what I care about! [[PSD applause.]] But I also want to tell you that, yes, ma'am, the matter could even be in fact the responsibility of Dr. Paulo Macedo, who were VV. Ex. who have chosen, but by chance, even it is. In fact, responsibility is even from the previous administration led by Dr. António Domingues. But I would say that, perhaps, it even has to do with that overcapitalization, that I spoke about the rostrum, unnecessary, as it is obvious, and it is so unnecessary that it has led to the reduction of costs and infrastructures that are now in this difficulty. Isn't it? But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, among the Members elected by the electoral circle of the Guard is peaceful and unanimous, and also for Mr Moisés, who indeed has to remain open. I have been left with some doubts about the questions that Mr. Miguel Tiago asked me, but I must say that he chose the wrong Member to ask him where he was on the day of the demonstration on which the CFP was there. Look, Mr. Deputies, I'm going to Almeida every week. You chose the wrong Member, because I have been working in that council for many years. I go to Almeida every week. People there can see me every week, I don't have to go exactly on the day when the CFP decides to join the demonstration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u390	To be displayed, to be displayed!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u391	But I would like to say, Mr. Moisés Ferreira, where the PSD has walked in the last legislature and why I have supported and continue to proudly support the previous government. Mr. Deputies, your lack of memory also frightens me. I don't know if you remember, but it was this government that I supported in the last legislation, which, by chance, paid bills that the PS left to pay. This party, which I support, has been injecting—see there! — EUR 900 million in the General Deposit Box.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u392	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u393	In fact, it seems that it was the only government that has actually put money there so far!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u394	So far!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u395	It was 900 million, sir! More: it also seems that the PSD was the only party that did not prevent all the business that the General Deposit Box was doing.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u396	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u397	The PSD was the only party that didn't object to everything being polled! This is the will that PSD has to solve the General Deposit Box problems. Mr Santinho Pacheco, since there is this unanimity, ask the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance to say anything, to speak, to face and tell the people of Almeida that this public bank is to continue. We both agree that it is really necessary for the population of Almeida that this counter does not close. It's a lot of people, it's 500 km2 of territory, it's five Lisbones. People do not have public transport and this is a public service, paid by all of us, and the population of Almeida has every right to have it too. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u398	First of all, I would like to thank the honourable Member for her exemplary compliance with the time available. Mrs. Members, completed interventions under Article 76 ( 2 ). that of the Rules of Procedure, we will move to the second point of our agenda today, which consists of the joint discussion of petition No 68 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — They request that July 8th be recognized as the National Day of Mutualism ( UMP — Union of Portuguese Mutualities ) and draft resolution No 859 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Consecrates on 8 July as the National Day of Mutualism ( PS ). Mr José Rui Cruz has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u399	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Compliance with petitioners No 68 / XIII ( 1. ( a ), present here, the first petitioner of which is the Union of Portuguese Mutualities. Today we are debating the draft resolution submitted by the PS, which aims to dedicate the National Day of Mutualism, thus giving expression to the petition presented in this Parliament. There are facts and circumstances that are so present in the lives of all of us that they do not need a day to be remembered or because such facts and circumstances already have their proper implementation in the calendar of national efemerides. It happens that the one-day proposal for the commemoration of mutualism is associated with a movement of Portuguese society for centuries and that today assumes an important part of our economy, in addition to the fundamental support it provides to the State in its role of social protection. The historical journey of mutualism of more than 700 years has left indelible marks in Portuguese society over time and perhaps has even contributed to the construction of the solidarity, tolerant and cooperative spirit that is widely recognized to the Portuguese people. Mutualism, as an alternative and private form of solidarity, contributes objectively and decisively to the respect and application of the most basic constitutional rights of citizens. It is therefore relevant to acknowledge it by the Code of Mutual Associations, which regulates the intervention of their associations, and by the Basics of Social Economy Act. It is also relevant to how almost a hundred mutualist associations scattered throughout the country take on social collective responsibilities and are organized in an exemplary way to provide functions and services that, in the first instance, must be provided to citizens by the State. Mutualism is therefore a strategic partner of the State in its mission of social protection for citizens. Moreover, even before the social state, mutualism has an important legacy of good practices, modes of operation and technical knowledge in matters of solidarity and social protection that cannot fail to be recognized as transversal in society and by the State. In addition, mutualism represents an important part of job creation and dynamizes the economic activity of the regions in which it is inserted. The Socialist Party's Government has an important national reform plan in which the fight against poverty and social exclusion are fundamental pillars and which aims to make Portuguese society more balanced and coherent, and for this purpose we are all summoned. That is why more than just the recognition and institution of a National Day of Mutualism, and the PS welcomes the vote in this House so relevant draft resolution, thus encouraging and reaffirming its continuity and its economic and social relevance. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u400	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u401	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to greet the 4607 subscribers of the petition, in the person of Dr. Luís Alberto Silva, who is present in the galleries, president of the Union of Portuguese Mutualities. Mutualities are the main actors of the social economy who, as we have always defended, play an essential and indispensable role in Portuguese society. As revealed by the Social Economy Satellite Account ( CSES ), the real value of the third sector in the national economy indicates that about 61 000 organisations employ more than 200 000 people, represent 2, 8 % of the national gross value added ( VAB ), 5, 2 % of the total employment and 6 % of the paid employment. Mutualism covers about 1 million associates and about 2, 5 million beneficiaries. But above all, it is its nature that relies on the reciprocity of services and on voluntary assistance with a total lack of profit. As for the content of the petition, to which the PS joined the draft resolution under discussion, we in the CDS believe that the consecration of national days should not, nor can it, be vulgarized, because it would make it unfair the distinction to the days that really matter. We therefore believe that only facts, events and truly important movements with cross-sectional recognition of society must have this recognition. And that is what we are talking about here, is one of these truly important cases: mutualism, with a national scope, a historic importance that celebrates 720 years of existence in Portugal, so we follow the claims of the petitioners. We understand that, despite this fairness of the act and that we hope it will be approved, we need more than the consecration of a national day. Mutual associations and other entities of the social economy need more of the government. As we know, for these institutions, practically the main source of funding is that of the State and recently the Cooperation Commitment 2017 - 2018 was concluded, which provides for an update of the social security participation in 2017 of 2, 1 %. This update, in our view, is manifestly insufficient, as we defend in a project that we presented in this House but which, unfortunately, was rejected by this House. Whereas the Government provides for an inflation of 1, 5 % for this year and the Banco de Portugal provides for a similar inflation for 2018, resulting in an increase in inflation of 3 %,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u402	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u403	... if we add 0, 4 % of the increase in the minimum wage and the impact of the decline of TSU (unique social rate) of 1, 25 %, we realize that a 4 % update was clearly needed, as we suggested. Whatever the case, we welcome this initiative and hope that the Day of Mutualism in Portugal can be enshrined in the law. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u404	Mr Helga Correia, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u405	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Allow me - firstly, in the person of Dr. Luís Alberto Silva, President of the Union of Portuguese Mutualities, to meet the more than 4000 subscribers of the petition under discussion. The petitioners of petition No 68 / XIII ( 1. a ) intend the institutionalization of July 8 as National Mutualism Day, to which the PSD Parliamentary Group wants to associate. With this petition, petitioners want to see the importance of mutualism, all its history and the activity developed by the mutualist movement that, in Portugal, involves 1 million associates and reaches 2, 5 million beneficiaries. In 2017, mutualism pointed out 720 years of existence, so institutionalizing the National Day of Mutualism is recognizing the importance that mutualism has in Portuguese society and in civic and social values that it has transmitted throughout the years of its existence. I speak in particular of the values of mutualism : « I contribute today to help the other, because today is the other that needs, tomorrow I may be... ». This is the true spirit of mutualism: giving more to those who have less. The spirit of help was the determining factor for the creation of these associations that arose to help those who have less.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u406	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u407	in this sense, I cannot fail to emphasize, in this Chamber, the preponderant and essential role that the mutualist movement has assumed in the transmission of fundamental values, such as solidarity, equality, honesty and transparency, responsibility, protection, citizenship, social inclusion. The PSD is a humanist and personalist party, which cares about people, revises the social and protection values that have guided the mutualist movement, a determining factor in mutual aid and improving the living conditions of its associates. Mutual associations daily develop essential and worthy work, complementing public health and social security systems. I stress, above all, the work done in periods of economic crisis and values, where they play a predominant role in assisting the most vulnerable population. It is important to exalt the social economy entities, who have played an essential role over several years, a role that leads to the state. Thus, the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party believes that institutionalizing the National Day of Mutualism is recognizing all the work carried out by these institutions over the 720 years of its existence. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u408	Mr Paulino Ascenção, from the Left Block, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u409	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, we welcome the petitioners and representatives of the mutualist movement present in this Chamber, an extended greeting to all members — more than 1 million — and to more than 2 million beneficiaries. They propose petitioners to set the day 8 July as the National Day of Mutualism, the day on which a conference of charity and mutual relief was founded in Beja, in 1297. There is a record of other similar confrries, possibly longer up to time, but this is the only one with documentary proof of the date of its creation. The mutualist movement thus shows its ancient roots, but, as we know it today, it emerged in the 19th century, under the inspiration of the socialist and anarchist thinkers, as citizens organize themselves collectively to protect themselves from the insecurity inherent to the capitalist economic system that was then affirmed in its wildest face. The mutualist movement was the precursor of modern insurance systems, it was also the precursor of the social state, it was the first form of collective response to problems such as unemployment and disease. Mutualism eventually retreated with the affirmation of the social state during the 20th century and became a complementary role. But today, it gains new relevance given the offensive against the social state, guided by neoliberal ideology and sponsored by international financial institutions. Globalization — part of this offensive — designed to serve the interests of high finance, wild relocations, increasing precariousness, the deregulation of labour relations creates again the urgency of social responses. But mutualism also sees itself as being attacked, for example, by Decree-Law No 190/2015, which the former Government put to pressure at the end of the legislature, which provides for the transformation of economic boxes into anonymous societies. Therefore, transforming entities of the social economy, of the mutualist sector, subjecting them to the speculative logic of the capitalist sector. Finally, I would like to stress that mutualism has a dimension of emancipation and is a collective response to social problems that are also collective. in this sense, it is a focus of resistance to the dominant ideology of entrepreneurship, consumerism and exacerbated individualism. Mutual practices are governed by principles of solidarity, reciprocity and inclusion, transparency, democracy and participatory citizenship, so we agree that such an important heritage deserves a national day. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u410	For an intervention, Mrs Diana Ferreira of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u411	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like, from now on on on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, to greet the Union of Portuguese Mutualities, whose members are here, and also to greet the signatories of this petition. The PCP has always respected and always taken into account the Portuguese mutualist movement, mutualist associations, as an important sector for the economy and as an important movement for its associates, especially in responding to the needs of various social dimensions. Mutualism, which has hundreds of years of history, arises from the need to respond in social areas at a time when the public response was nonexistent. As a matter of curiosity, and even example, one of the main mutualist associations to be set up was by fishermen in the field of risk insurance in vessels, where fishermen organized themselves by creating a mutualist association for which everyone contributed that, in the event of an accident or damage in some of the vessels, there were conditions for it to be recovered. We recognize the important role that mutualist associations have played in social protection, health care, the creation of economic and safe boxes as a means to meet the needs of communities. We also understand, and we defend, that the State must effectively assume and fulfil its responsibilities in matters of fundamental rights, particularly in the social functions of the State, taking appropriate measures to ensure the necessary public responses to the population, without prejudice to the work of complementarity that mutualist associations and other popular initiatives can, and well, develop in these areas. As for the definition of the National Day of Mutualism, we value — we cannot forget — what has been the commemoration, on 25 October, of this day, for the meaning it has in the history of the mutual movement, pointing out the first national plenary of the mutual relief associations that took place after 25 April. We understand, even considering what is written in the petition, the proposal for 8 July. In view of the Socialist Party's draft resolution, we would like to express the following concern: as far as we know, the proposed date presented may not be a consensus in the sector and we believe it was important to address this issue and find a solution that would guarantee the consensus of the sector in this area. Because we believe that the determination of a national day of mutualism is an important day for the organizations of the mutualist sector, of course, must represent the will of the mutualist associations. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u412	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we can all welcome the broad consensus that the principle of mutualism has just registered in the House. The joint assessment of petition No 68 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) and draft resolution No 859 / XIII ( 2. ( a) I shall give the floor to Mrs Emília Santos to report on the entry into the Bureau of legislative initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u413	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, draft resolutions Nos 874 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of financing solutions for the National Railway Museum in the city of Entronicamento ( PS ), which falls to 12. the Commission, and 875 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommendation to the Government for an urgent study on the implications for the Portuguese economy for the exit of the United Kingdom of the European Union ( PSD ), which falls to 6. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u414	Mrs. Members, let us turn to agenda item three, with a view to petition No 96 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — They request the repeal of Decree-Law No 133 / 2013 of 3 October approving the new legal regime of the public business sector ( Federation of Transport and Communications Unions ), together with Bill No 303 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Reinforces rights and income and ensures the right to collective bargaining in the business public sector by repealing the burdensome rules of Decree-Law No 133 / 2013 of 3 October ( PCP ), in general, and draft resolution No 865 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends an amendment to the legal regime of the business public sector which respects the right to collective bargaining and a new orientation for the management of the business public sector ( BE ). To present Bill No. 303 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u415	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We wish to greet FECTRANS — Federation of Transport and Communications Unions and 5100 men and women who signed this petition against Decree-Law No 133 / 2013, approved by the previous Government, PSD / CDS. This diploma imposed a truly infernal situation on the functioning of public undertakings, public capital undertakings, local and regional business sector entities, compromising their guarantee of fundamental public services. It was the absolute disrespect for collective bargaining and the unilateral imposition of explicitly unfavourable remuneration conditions on workers, in a view of devalued work and the liquidation of acquired rights. in the public assessment of this PCP bill, there were many workers'organisations in public and social functions, or of various sectors, of transport and communications to energy and the environment, which we also want to welcome here, which have spoken in this process, stressing the urgent need to repeal these standards, with particular emphasis on Article 18. or of this Decree-Law. This article, dealing imperatively with collective bargaining, requires these companies to apply the amounts of subsistence allowance, allowance, cost and transport aid applicable to workers in public service. For the CFP, sustained and balanced management cannot of course neglect the financial component, the necessary provision and management of resources for the investment and the responsiveness of these companies in fulfilling their mission. But it is unacceptable to ignore and underestimate the very reason for being companies, their economic and social components. At the appropriate time, we have warned of the consequences of this diploma. And there they are: degradation of the quality and reliability of public services, abandonment of strategic projects. The simple realization of small repairs or the acquisition of spare parts (or even screws! ) they became a calvary of bureaucracy in companies and services. The workers of the Metropolitan, Carris or EMEF, or Transtejo and Soflus, will say so. It was even to create difficulties and open the way to privatizations!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u416	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u417	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With the contribution of the CFP, the State Budget Act for 2017 approved the amendment to the relevant Decree-Law to respond to the pressing needs of companies and to the fair demands of workers. It was possible to move forward with more urgent changes, with the repeal of the legislation which imposes the practice of a set of cuts on workers' incomes and which also imposes the imperative overlap of these cuts on collective bargaining. It is now necessary to pursue this path in defence of workers and of the future of companies. It is in this sense that the draft law of the CFP aims to ensure the fulfilment of the economic and social functions of the business public sector and respect for workers'rights by repealing Articles 15. o, 18. Article 34 ( 2 ) and ( 3 ). Article 35 ( 2 ) and ( 3 ). o Decree-Law No 133 / 2013. The Assembly of the Republic has the responsibility, opportunity and competence to legislate, solving this problem in a concrete and effective way. So do the gentlemen. Members take this option. With this initiative, the CFP reaffirms its solidarity and commitment always to the struggle waged over the years by workers to defend their rights and to guarantee a dynamic, efficient public business sector capable of playing a decisive role in the economic and social development of the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u418	To present draft resolution No 865 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u419	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Application No 96 / XIII ( 1 ) ( a ), promoted by the Federation of Transport and Communications Unions and subscribed by more than 5000 citizens and citizens, calls for a timely reflection on the urgency of the repeal of Decree-Law No 133 / 2013 of 3 October. We would like to begin by thanking the petitioners for the importance of their presentation — to which together with a special respect to their representatives present here in the gallery — and to declare that we fully agree with the reasons that the petitioners invoke: 'the removal of important standards from collective bargaining' and 'the constraints that cause the operation of companies'. It is precisely for these two types of reasons that, in addition to the immediate revocation of certain articles, it is justified to move towards a deeper change in the legal system of the business sector itself, replacing it with a new diploma that substantially alters the management model for companies belonging to the public sector universe. The Left Block therefore presents to this House a draft resolution in which, in addition to the repeal of several articles, they delete, in practice, the established labour rights, it is recommended that the Government promote a comprehensive review of the legal regime to introduce the necessary changes to the full pursuit of interest and common goods in the provision of public goods and services. The more thorough review of the diploma is justified not only by reasons of consistency with the direction of the current majority's economic policy, but also by the fact that the current legal regime is useless in these days. Instead, a new legal regime must be created to serve the public interest rather than private interests. In fact, for the former radical right-wing government, public enterprises should be managed like private companies: having the profit as the sole standard of their economic efficiency and cutting back on all public service criteria. The strategy of the former Government for public enterprises was based on the construction of a legal architecture that this force of law gave the austerity guidance of its economic policy. Thus, the pretext of strict control and the imposition of limits on the indebtedness of non-financial public undertakings was denied to companies of all their autonomy. In particular, when companies presented « negative equity », the administrations, directly instructed by the Ministry of Finance, would be obliged to extraordinary management measures such as cost and activity reduction, wage and career freezes, cuts in social benefits, including loss of labour rights. This analysis of decapitalised public enterprises ignores that structural imbalance has, above all, historical reasons, linked to wrong financing models, particularly in the public transport sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u420	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u421	I shall now conclude, Mr President. It is therefore urgent to remove the rules which violate collective bargaining and all clauses which establish bureaucratic control of the Ministry of Finance. Instead, a management model should be applied based on public procurement, based on management goals and objectives for each public undertaking. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u422	For an intervention, Mrs. Wanda Guimarães of the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u423	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Socialist Party, I wish to greet the petitioners, the leaders of FECTRANS and especially to greet him, in a very special way, have chosen the petition, which is an instrument of civic and political participation, and also your resistance. The repeal of Decree-Law No 133 / 2013 is concerned. I was pleased to receive a union delegation in January this year and to hear the advanced arguments, although, at that time, there was already some breakthrough, since petition No. 96 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) has been admitted before the approval of the State budget for 2017, which has just repealed the so-called Article 18 ( 4 ). the, i.e., the regime set at this point no longer prevails over collective conventions, which means that the imperative of the regime in January no longer existed. In other words, the approval of Article 21. the same budget also sought to answer the questions raised, in particular with regard to payment, i.e. the negotiating space for certain matters was opened and the constraints that paragraph 4 represented were removed. in the audience, I had the opportunity to mention three points: the importance of public service for the PS, as a guarantee of equal access for citizens to quality services; the quality of services always involves valued workers who enjoy good working conditions; in our view, it is essential to give the trade unions a negotiating space so that they can affirm their necessity. From January to today, we have known new and, fortunately, auspicious data on collective bargaining: it has increased by 50 % compared to 2015 and, for the first time, it is possible to report a real increase in the wages of the above-inflation conventions. in the forge is also the agileization of extension doors, essential tools for the coverage and protection of workers and workers. In addition, at the hearing Mr Bruno Dias had pointed out the significant progress made in the negotiations, in particular through the repeal of Article 18(4). o. And let us be clear: nothing prevents the parties from negotiating at this time. Far from the embarrassment that caused this petition and affecting the bill of the Portuguese Communist Party and the draft resolution of the Left Block on similar matters, widened the negotiating space, strengthened the collective bargaining, agileized the extension gates, with the employment to be increased and unemployment to decrease, we believe that this matter is not a priority.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u424	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u425	I will now finish, Mr President. When the time comes to act, here we will, as always, be defending the excellence of public services... [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u426	...and the invaluable performance of its workers. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u427	Mr António Carlos Monteiro, from the CDS-PP, now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u428	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to begin by greeting the petitioners, from then on the Federation of Transport and Communications Unions, who promoted this petition. What do you intend with this petition? To repeal Decree-Law No 133 / 2013, which approved the legal regime of the business public sector. We believe that this is a highly ideologically marked petition, not only because it challenges what concerns labour but because it goes further: it criticizes the principles that preside over the organization of the state business sector. And what are they? From then on, limits to indebtedness, good management, i.e. not to waste public money.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u429	With you, that's what you saw! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u430	Furthermore, at the blight of this petition, the PCP has assigned a bill and the Left Block a more modest draft resolution, where they specify their disagreements with the current law. By the way, an example: the CFP is against the competitive neutrality established in the law. What does that mean? In other words, public undertakings are subject to general competition rules, that is, the CFP believes that public undertakings can and, perhaps, should have the right to compete unfairly on the market. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] The PCP and the Left Block, by the way, do not agree with sound accounts in public enterprises, they think it is normal that they can afford to have consecutive losses without nothing being done. They believe that the money of all Portuguese is wasted, deresponsibly irresponsible or incompetent management. In fact, it was good for the PCP and the Left Block to clarify what they are coming, because this law has been changed, as has already been said, in the State Budget. It is good to remember that PS, Left Block and PCP negotiated and approved the State Budget and in the State Budget decided to change this law to one point.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u431	The rest is missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u432	Now, if they have reached agreement on this matter, then what are these Block and PCP projects for? Oh, my God! If you've already closed agreement with the PS? Oh, my God! ...are they to pretend they're doing something? Oh, my God! Are they to deceive the petitioners? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u433	Or, being more benevolent, are they to pretend that they are pressuring the Socialist Party? Oh, my God! And the Socialist Party is going to give in? Oh, my God! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] Is the PS going to accept your partners saying so for no reason? Oh, my God! But, Mr. President, tomorrow there will be the teat. After all, will these projects go down to the committee, without a vote, like many of those you put to or will go to the vote? Oh, my God! [[Ah!]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u434	And the PS, will you vote in favor or will you vote against? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u435	Is that a CDS? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u436	Will you excuse the labor law, which prohibits the increase in expenditure, as will be the case with this law, which will contribute to increase it in the middle of the year? Oh, my God! It is good for Portuguese to know that PS, PCP and Block close agreements and then pretend that nothing has to do with them. There's a bit of political seriousness here, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! A little political seriousness in this debate! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u437	Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u438	Mr President, first of all, I would like to say the following: Mr António Carlos Monteiro, if the petition has a great ideological burden, what will we say about the diploma we want to revoke? Is it neutral? Is that what you're gonna tell us? Don't play with serious things, sir! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u439	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first words are to welcome, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, the thousands of citizens who have subscribed to the petition that we are now discussing, a greeting which naturally extends to the Federation of Transport and Communications Unions, which has promoted and dynamized it. Through this petition, subscribers are required to revoke Decree-Law No 133 / 2013 by the Assembly of the Republic. In anticipation, the Greens begin by saying that they fully follow the petitioners'claim, i.e. we also advocate the repeal of some of the rules of this diploma, which has imposed the removal of important rules from collective bargaining and which continues to cause great constraints on the functioning of companies in the state business sector. As we know, the previous government of the PSD / CDS has passed its long and long mandate to impose injustices on those who work. They were workers in the public sector, they were workers in the private sector, no one was left out of the previous government offensive, which did not tire of penalizing those who worked, whether by wage, or by means of the restriction of rights. And the diploma whose revocation is now being discussed is one of many of the diplomas that gave shape to this offensive against those who work. This diploma, in addition to imposing reductions in the rights of workers in the state's business sector with regard, in particular, to the amounts of the food allowance and the grant of aid for costs, in addition to removing the collective contract with regard to the payment of extraordinary work, is still making a decisive contribution to weakening the quality of public services provided to citizens. But in the interests of the PSD and CDS, this diploma imposed on the management of public enterprises the model of private companies, i.e. what matters is profit and only profit counts ; the response to the needs of citizens does not matter anything, what matters is profit. And the objective is clear: work is devalued, rights are reduced, the living conditions of workers are worse, the social functions of the State are ignored and the ground is prepared to privatize public services, always very desirable for the private. Today, with PSD and CDS far from power, it is also important to reverse this view of public enterprises and the social functions of the State, but it is also necessary to respect and promote collective contracting, regain the full rights of those who work and who have been removed by the PSD / CDS government, ensure an efficient public business sector, which can have a significant weight in the development of the country and guarantee quality public services to citizens. For this reason, the Greens consider it essential to repeal certain rules of Decree-Law No 133 / 2013 — which remain in force despite the State budget law for 2017 — and in particular Article 14 (2) thereof. Article 18. that of that Decree of the Law.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u440	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u441	I will finish, Mr. President. We will thus be restoring justice and, at the same time, following up on the claims of the thousands of petitioners who, to this end, addressed the Assembly of the Republic. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u442	Mr Álvaro Batista, from the PSD, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u443	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I want to begin by greeting the 5100 petitioners who brought this issue to the House of Democracy. Whether or not to agree with the petitioner, these initiatives are also democracy and should be welcomed.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u444	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u445	With this petition, what is desired is the reversal of a measure of the previous Government, which has equalled benefits between employees of public undertakings and other employees in public service. Today, what is under discussion, in the petition and in the initiatives accompanying it, is whether there should be any further differences between State workers. What is at stake is whether, within the state, all being equal, some workers should be able to be more equal than others. [[Protests by Mr. BE Heitor Sousa.]] What is at stake is a question of equality, but also a question of justice. The equality of all State servants or the willingness to allow the creation of privileged and disadvantaged. What the PSD did in the government was create justice,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u446	He cut it all off!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u447	It's over!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u448	... was to tell the drivers of the public transport of the Algarve, the Min or the Beers that they were no less than the drivers of the other regions. If everyone worked for the Portuguese people, in the Alentejo or in Castelo Branco, in Grande Porto or in Lisbon, if they were all at the service of the public cause, they should all be equal and win the same,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u449	And he leveled down!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u450	He sent everything to the street!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u451	... to earn the same amount of food allowance, cost aid, night allowance or extraordinary hours. What you are now wanting to discuss is whether there should be servants of the State of first and second; whether there should be drivers, collectors, administrative agents and engineers of the State doing exactly the same thing,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u452	Do the same thing? Oh, my God! What an ignorance!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u453	...but receiving different benefits or orders, just because they work in different places.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u454	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u455	We don't believe that. We defend that all state workers have a boss, who is the Portuguese people. They work for an authority, for a public undertaking or for a Ministry, the same functions must correspond to wages and equal benefits. It is therefore at issue a question of justice. in public enterprises it is true that they provide services to Portuguese, services to the Portuguese people, but whenever these services harm—and this happens, unfortunately, in many cases—,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u456	It's public service! You know you're not supposed to make a profit? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u457	... whenever the recipes do not arrive, the payer is always the same: the Portuguese people. Whenever a public service damages, it is the taxes of the Portuguese that they pay. It is essential to ensure that the taxes of the Portuguese people are used in a balanced way, without placing anyone at the expense of all the others.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u458	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u459	Because in the principles there can be no concessions, who today claims equal work must want equal pay for State workers. in the state there must also be equal pay for equal work.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u460	What a sad figure!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u461	When there are increases for drivers, engineers or state auxiliaries should be the same for all, from Algarve to Mine.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u462	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u463	I'm done now, Mr. President. What the PSD did was promote justice and equality. What is now proposed is different: to create privileged and disadvantaged, children and entities among state workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u464	Your administrators have been increased! You've had a lot of fun, but not kids!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u465	We don't agree. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-18.u466	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, today's agenda is the time to announce tomorrow's agenda, Friday, which will start at 10 a.m. with a PS marking. Thus, draft resolutions 869 / XIII ( 2 ) will be discussed together. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government implement measures extending tourist demand throughout the national territory ( PS ), 871 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of measures promoting scientific tourism ( PS ) and 872 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of measures promoting health tourism ( PS ). The vote will take place at the scheduled time. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very late for everyone. The session is closed. [[It was 19 hours and 28 minutes.]]
