ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u1	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, I declare open the session. [[It was 15 hours and 9 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. Before we begin today's agenda, which, as you know, consists of the discussion of the proposed laws on the Big Plan Options and the State Budget for 2018, I ask Mr Duarte Pacheco to proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau, and have been admitted, the following initiatives: projects of lein.o 654 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Change the criminal framework for forest fire crime ( PAN ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 655 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Strengthening the fire prevention rules provided for in the National Fire Defense System ( NAP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, and 656 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Includes the forest fire crime in the list of « priority research crimes » ( PAN ), which falls to 1. the Commission ; Parliamentary assessment No 52 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 126 -A / 2017 of 6 October establishing the social benefit for inclusion ( CDS-PP ) ; and draft resolutions 1103 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government reposition all schedules of trains between Cuba and Beja ( PSD ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1104 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Reforestation, valuation and defense of Pinhal de Leiria ( PCP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1105 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to support indigenous breeds affected by fires ( CDS-PP ), which fall to 7. the Commission, 1106 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish the suspension of the hunt north of the Tagus during the two-year period ( NAP ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1108 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the creation of a specific programme to support the installation and implementation of forestry models using oaks, chestnuts and other leaves ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1110 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government establish a psychological response team to fires in the central and northern areas of the country, affecting the districts of Coimbra, Viseu, Guarda, Castelo Branco, Braga and Leiria ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1107 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government include veterinary doctors as civil protection agents and that therefore rescue and rescue teams ( NAPs) are created, which falls to 7. the Commission, and 1109 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government assess the need to provide food for wild animals in the neighbouring areas to the areas of native forest that have ignited ( NAP ), which falls to 7. the Commission. He entered the office of Mr. President by office No 10851 / 2017 of 31 October of the Civil House of the President of the Republic, informing Parliament that Mr. President of the Republic made only two of the three official travels provided for in the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic No 177 / 2017. Finally, there is also a report and opinion to be voted on by the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees relating to the replacement of the mandate in accordance with Article 4(1) ( c ). Article 20 (1) ( d ) and ( d ). Mr Carlos Pereira ( PS ), electoral circle of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, by Mrs Maria Adelaide Ribeiro, with effect from 1 November. The opinion is in the sense that the Member concerned is to admit that the legal requirements have been met. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u3	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We will now begin the discussion, in general, of the proposals of lein. 99 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Great Plan Options for 2018 and 100 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the State budget for 2018. You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is the third proposal for a State budget submitted by the Government to the Assembly of the Republic in this Parliament. It is therefore a proposal that already benefits from the credibility achieved in two budgetary executions without amending budgets and from the sustained confidence in the economic results achieved in these two years. This is therefore a proposal that prepares for the future, giving continuity to the change of policies based on the Government's Programme and the parliamentary majority. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The change of government resulted from the popular will in the change of policies, from the demand for the replacement of constitutional normality, from the quiet everyday life of families, from the guarantee of predictability to economic agents, from political and social stability, in short, from the need to return to Portuguese respect, self-esteem, confidence and hope in the future of Portugal. The stability of public policies is crucial to the recovery of confidence, the recovery of confidence is crucial for the recovery of investment, the recovery of investment is essential to growth and job creation and only with growth and employment is possible to recover income and sustainably consolidate our public finances. To the conviction that this page turn was not only desirable as possible, we now join the results produced by this political change. Firstly, consumer confidence is in the highest value ever and the economic climate has reached the maximum of the last 15 years. Secondly, volume investment has, in the most recent data, been the largest growth in the last 18 years. Thirdly, over 227 000 net jobs have been created since December 2015 and the unemployment rate has declined to 8 % in the context of an increase in the active population. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Fourthly, the economy has seen the greatest growth since the beginning of the century, sustained in employment, investment and confidence. Fifthly, for the first time in the last 10 years, the country has met the budgetary targets, registering the lowest deficit in our democracy and ensuring the exit of the excessive deficit procedure. Finally, in 2017, public debt has the highest reduction of the last 19 years, decreasing to 126, 2 % of the Product, with the differential of the Treasury Obligations to 10 years, with Germany falling 181 basis points from the beginning of the year, improving the Republic's open rating to extend the investor base and determining a reduction in the financing costs of the Portuguese economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These are the results that we have achieved, and we have achieved them because we have been able to conduct with virtuous balance the different budgetary objectives. It was only possible to meet the economic and monetary union commitments because the economy responded positively to new policies, with more growth and more employment. And it is also clear that economic recovery was only possible when we proved that these policies led to budgetary stability, financial sector recovery and confidence recovery in the Portuguese economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] These are the results that require stability in the good policies that have allowed them and to which the proposal of the State Budget for 2018 ensures, precisely, continuity. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a future and continuity budget. This is a Budget that pursues the recovery of Portuguese income and the improvement of the investment conditions of companies in Portugal. This is a Budget that improves the income of all families, deepens justice in its distribution and reduces inequalities. All taxpayers will have relief in the IRS (tax on income of natural persons): the lowest income benefits from the increase in the threshold of the exemption; the middle class is degraded by the enlargement of the steps from five to seven; and the highest income benefits from the completion of the overtax. The pensioners will also see their income increased. From January onwards, pensions up to €857 will be, according to the formula of the basic social security law, updated above inflation, ensuring that all pensioners up to €2570 earn or maintain purchasing power in 2018. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In addition, in August there will again be an extraordinary increase, up to 10 €, for pensions that have not been updated between 2011 and 2015 and for pensions that have been updated in this period there will be a guaranteed minimum increase of 6 €. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The social protection policies which have marked this legislation are also strengthened by this Budget, such as the Minister of Labour, Solidarity and Social Security will develop in his intervention in this debate, in particular by updating the indexer of social support (IAS) and the development of the Social Benefit for Inclusion ( PSI). The recovery of income and rights is also present in the fight against precariousness in the state and in the thawing of all public administration careers, which has not taken place since 2010, re-taking the normal mechanisms of remuneration development, with progressions and promotions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the other hand, in order to maintain a path of economic growth and the creation of more and better jobs, the 2018 Budget also continues to improve the conditions for business investment. The stability of the macroeconomic framework, the consolidation of the financial system, the priority to internationalisation, the improvement of domestic demand, the reduction of context costs in public administration or the justice system and the full implementation of the European funds of Portugal 2020 are the best investment incentive framework. The reform of the development institution will ultimately enable investment support to be effective. The line already negotiated with the European Investment Bank of EUR 250 million is a concrete first step in providing a new investment support mechanism for companies that complement Community funds. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This budget is marked strongly by five fiscal measures in support of the cash, capital and restructuring of enterprises, which complete the Capitalisation Programme package: it extends to all creditors the tax benefit to the conversion of capital credits, which this year has already been granted to supply the partners; it is allocated a tax credit to companies, which are single persons and which complete the Capitalisation Programme package: it extends to all creditors the tax benefit to the conversion of loans into capital, which this year has already been granted to supply the partners; it is allocated a tax credit to companies, which are individuals and carry out cash-flows in companies that have lost more than half of the capital; it extends to all creditors the tax benefit to the reinvestorment of profits, both in time and time, by extending from 2 to 3 years, to 3 years, to the eligible amount of the MMT exemption (municipal tax on the transfer of real assets) and the price tax on the sale of all of the marketable goods in the context of business re restructuring restructuring restructuring restructuring business operations; and, and it still imposes the value reduction of the value reduction, and the value reduction, and the value of the value of the value added added added added by by by by by, and the value, and the value added by by by by by by, and the value, and the value added added added, and the value of the value added added, and the value added added added, and the value, and the value of the value of the value of the value added added added added, and the value of the value added added added added added added added, and the value, and the value and the value added added added added added added added added added added added, and the value, and the value and the value added added added added added added added, and the value and the value and the value and the value and the value of the value and the value of the value of the value and the value and the value of the value of the value of the value of the value of the value of the value of the value of the value of the value of the value of the value and the value of the value of the value and the value and the value and the value of the value and the value of the value of the value of the value of the value added added added added added added added added added added, and the value, and the value of the value of the value of the value of the value of the value [[P.S.'s applause.]] Support for financing, supported by State guarantee mechanisms, was crucial for the acceleration of investment. In 2017, we put EUR 1600 million in the Capitalisation Line. In 2018, we will strengthen this value by launching credit lines with a global value of EUR 2600 million. We will also improve the conditions, extending the financing period, from investments to small and medium-sized enterprises up to 12 years. These funding lines include: a Capitalisation Line, which will strengthen the capital of micro and small enterprises, finance the basic management needs, allow greater flexibility in the management of treasury and finance projects approved under Portugal 2020 for medium- and long-term investments ; a Capitalisation Line for the financing of exporting companies, offering more advantageous conditions with a view to promoting the internationalisation of Portuguese companies; and finally a Capitalization Line Mid Cap for the financing of medium-scale ventures. [[P.S.'s applause.]] When the results confirm the success of the strategy, we must continue it and strengthen the measures that implement it. Do more to achieve even better results. This is how, with renewed confidence in the results achieved, we continue to pursue a budgetary policy for the recovery of Portuguese income and growth of companies' investment, thus continuing to promote an improvement of our public accounts supported in modernising the economy, creating jobs and reducing inequalities. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: If this is a Budget that continues and deepens the good policies that have been used by Portugal on the road to convergence, it is also a Budget focused on the future, from the very beginning, because the future we want is a society of rights, fairer and more cohesive, that the recovery of income makes possible, but also because it strengthens the sustainability of our public finances, because it invests in innovation as an engine of development and because it places new generations at the heart of public policies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] First, the 2018 Budget is a Budget for the future, since it places on the sustainability of our public finances, continuing the deficit reduction path to 1% and reducing public debt by 126, 2 % this year to 123, 5 % in 2018. It is also a Budget which continues to strengthen the sustainability of social security through the diversification of its sources of funding now with the allocation of part of the IRC's revenue ( corporate income tax ) to the Fund for Financial Stabilisation of Social Security ( FEFSS ). Secondly, this is a budget for the future because it invests in innovation as an engine of development. Culture and science are the foundations of the knowledge society and investing in creativity and human resources formation is to create an ecosystem conducive to innovation. That is why this budget increases funding by 24 % for competitions to support the arts and bet on national creation, with the strengthening of investment in national production and programming bodies in the field of culture. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the other hand, the contract of trust with universities and polytechnics is being fulfilled and the provision of higher education institutions is strengthened, giving greater autonomy in the management of their resources and strengthening, in particular, support for scientific employment, with the increase in the budget of the Foundation for Science and Technology and support for some 3000 contracts for researchers and doctors in 2018. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Priority is also given to strengthening digital skills that enable Portugal to assume European leadership by 2030. The growth of public effort in support of research and development activity is implemented in order to leverage private investment in this area, which we know has resumed growth since 2016. This is, therefore, a Budget that maintains the commitment to the incorporation of knowledge into the productive structure, with incentives for business innovation that promote competitiveness gains, stimulating collaborative laboratories between companies, scientific institutions and technological centres, seeking to train these institutions that promote technology and innovation with companies, within the framework of the Interface Programme, which, in conjunction with Industry 4.0 and Startup Portugal, structure public policies to support entrepreneurship and entrepreneurship. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Thirdly, this is a future budget because it places new generations at the heart of all public policies. This Budget supports the new generations when it increases the family allowance for children between 12 and 36 months, benefiting about 130 000 children, when it supports investment in the day care network in cities where there is a greater shortage and when it strengthens the quality of the education system, extending the school coverage network, with the opening of 70 new rooms, and the social action school to 3. the step, supporting schools in the promotion of school success and in the flexibility of the curriculum and expanding and diversifying professional education. It responds to new generations when it democratizes access to higher education through school social action grants, which already cover 20 % of all higher education students. It closes the cycle of priority for new generations in new policies for affordable rental and access to the labour market, advancing with the first phase of the contract-management, essential conditions for the autonomy of young people. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is why an integrated continuum of policies that completes a virtuous circle from early childhood to young autonomy thus relaunching a true structural response to the demographic challenge that Portugal faces and has to face. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: 2018 will be necessary and simultaneously marked by the urgency of the response to the populations and the reconstruction of the territories devastated by the disasters of 17 June and 15 October. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The year 2018 will be marked by the imperative of starting structural forest reforms and the integrated rural fire management system, the implementation of the internal revitalization strategy and the implementation of decentralisation. But 2018 is also the year in which, within the framework of the European Union, fundamental options will be taken for economic and monetary reform and for the definition of the Strategic Framework after 2020, which requires a very active participation of Portugal, to support the ambition of having begun a new decade of convergence with the European Union. Therefore, more than ever, between the immediate urgent and the seemingly distant one, we need to reaffirm the firm political will to give continuity to the change that we started two years ago and which guarantees us more growth, better employment, greater equality, building a sustainable future, based on innovation, for the new generations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u5	Mr. Prime Minister, 21 were registered. Members to request clarification, the first being the Members. Deputies Antonio Leitão Amaro, João Paulo Correia, Catarina Martins, Assumption Cristas, João Oliveira, José Luís Ferreira, André Silva. How do you intend to respond, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u6	I will answer one by one, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u7	Mr António Leitão Amaro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u8	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is very difficult to see in this budget the same mistakes and marks that the country has discovered to you over the past few months. It is very difficult to see this self-satisfaction and supposed skill, which, after all, are unconscious and incapable of protecting Portuguese in the present and future, this euphoric propaganda, which after all hides a government, blocked and unable to reform, to devour in the present the fruits and seeds of good international conjuncture and the effects of previous reforms.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u9	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u10	It is very difficult to see the Portuguese, those who are the true subjects of political power, transformed into mere object of the power of the PS and its craving to maintain it. Everything is justified and everything is sacrificed to the interest of the PS in the short term. This is your third, of four, Budget. The strategy repeats itself and there is no hope that it will improve. Fortunately, they have become some nominal budgetary consolidation, putting into question and tearing away all that the left have always said and taken hold of weapons that we would never expect them to achieve. They made the biggest cuts by captivating in public investment that there is memory, contrary to the budgets approved here. They have made increases in indirect taxes that bring a record tax burden, the maximum, the greatest that the country has ever borne. [[It's fake!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u11	It's fake! Let's see what INE says.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u12	They have made tax losses and anticipated tax revenues which have greatly alleviated some large non-marketable sector companies. This is your penultimate State Budget and is more of the same:... [[PS protests.]] ... nothing that prepares and gives hope for the future and, now, disguises the present propagandistically, because the Portuguese know and see that you have made them pay more taxes and contributions to the state so that they receive less and worse services. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u13	The INE says the opposite!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u14	Mr. Prime Minister, this budget does not take care of our collective future. If not, tell me: what does he bring in favor of businesses? Nothing! What measures do you take for exports and investment? He's not bringing anything! What reforms does he do? None! It is a budget without anything for companies, for exports and for investment. No reforms, nothing for sustained creation of wealth and nothing for a sustainablely better future. It is by not bringing any of this that, according to your own numbers, in three years of left-wing government, two are of economic slowdown: 2016, slowed down towards 2015 and, 2018, slowed down towards 2017.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u15	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u16	Tell me, Prime Minister, what is your programme, in addition to continuing the return of income and redistribution that the previous government has reinitiated? [[PS protests.]] What is your programme in addition to the return made possible by the normality that the previous government has recovered? Now, after that emergency, for which you and many of your fellow government colleagues have contributed so much, this budget has nothing beyond the typical redistribution of normal times, but it threatens our future, because nothing does for the sustained growth and creation of wealth. You have already realized, by the words, that the motor of an economy such as Portuguese, small and open, must be in exports and investment, but once again they insist that these words have nothing to do with because this budget puts the chips, all in another engine, into domestic consumption. The country has already noticed, Mr. Prime Minister, and the entrepreneurs have also warned, that this Budget does nothing for exports and investment. Instead of taking advantage of a good phase of the economic cycle to prepare for the future, what are they doing? They increase the state's revenue and structural expenditure, which is the one that will survive even at the least favourable times of the economic cycle.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u17	Are they against increasing pensions and defrosting careers?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u18	With one of the highest public debt in Europe, they do very little to reduce it. This is your future: nothing for the sustained growth of the economy, nothing for the structural consolidation of public accounts and very little for the reduction of debt. They have abdicated from the future, thinking only of your interest in the present. But, Prime Minister, if you bring nothing to the future, is this Budget really good for the present? Not at all. Despite your propaganda, we know that with this government, the Portuguese pay more, of national income, to the State to receive back less and worse services. [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] Yes, in 2017, they pay as never before in taxes and contributions compared to the weight of the economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u19	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u20	It's in INE data, come on!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u21	The economy has never been so sought to feed the state.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u22	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u23	They still tried to confuse us, saying that it was economic growth, as if the Portuguese did not remember the increase in indirect taxes, particularly on fuels,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u24	No, 34, 4 % is less than 34, 55 %! It's a matter of math!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u25	and the rates and fees that they have created in these two years and that they now repeat. As if the Portuguese forgot! UTAO's numbers confirmed this increase in tax burden... [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] ... and the government itself says that in 2017 and 2018 the structural revenue, so that it remains beyond the economic cycle, increases. Mr Prime Minister, if the Portuguese generally pay more taxes and contributions, there is a special group that is truly attacked by this government, speaking of independent workers, the so-called 'green receipts'. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u26	To these, with the high degree of deprotection and risk they take, what do you do to thousands and thousands of them? They punish us with the increase in taxes, in particular IRS, which may exceed 15 % or 20 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u27	They are not ‘thousands of them’! Let's go see the number!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u28	But it is not just what the State is asking the Portuguese taxpayers, it is the least and the worst that it gives them back. Mr. Prime Minister, the country has witnessed, incredulous and shocked—now the whole country, with the exception of Mr. Prime Minister—to the tragic failures of the State to protect people, to the collapse of Civil Protection in the fight against fires, to the theft of weapons and to the blinding of border services, to the worsening of waiting lists in surgeries, to the Ministry of Finance to block oncological surgeries and to the replacement of non-teaching personnel in schools. We saw how your measures decreased the hours of production and service in the state, as did the biggest cut in public investment and the biggest captivations that there is memory, and all with the shoulder and friendly support of the left.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u29	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u30	We have seen, Mr. Prime Minister, that this Budget does not bring futures, makes a present in which citizens pay more to the State to receive from it less protection and less services.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u31	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u32	This horizon without a future, this present in which, behind propaganda, there is a government that punishes the Portuguese, it is yours. We needed a different Prime Minister, a better government to whom we could trust our future. Unfortunately, that's not the case. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u33	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u34	Mr President, Mr António Leitão Amaro, thank you very much for the questions you have raised. No, I don't have euphoria, I just look with satisfaction at the numbers, which should also cheer him up, and I just don't see him happy and I only see him euphoria because that is the measure of his frustration with regard to the good results achieved by the economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] One of the problems of bringing home written speech when asking questions is, then, not being able to adapt that speech to which it is actually read here. [[P.S.'s applause.]] For this reason, you have theorized about the sacrifice of the future, which is one of the basic slogans of the right, but you have ignored what is fundamental: this is a Budget that cautions the future.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u35	How?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u36	Beware of the future by reducing public debt. This year we have had the greatest reduction of the last 19 years and for the year we are going to have a further reduction in public debt.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u37	After increasing the debt!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u38	It cautions the future with the extension of sources of social security financing in order to contribute to its sustainability. We are not only trying to avoid cutting the EUR 600 million in pensions that you propose, not only ensuring an effective increase in pensioners' pensions today, we are extending the basis of the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund to ensure that pensions, such as you will receive, will be covered by 30 years from now, so that you too can benefit from our pension system. Yes, we are also taking care of your future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Do we not take care of the future when investing in innovation, in what is essential, which is investing in science? Oh, my God! Do we not take care of the future when we invest in the transfer of knowledge to businesses and the capacity of companies to innovate? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u39	They cut!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u40	Yes, our vision of development is not yours, where companies gained competitiveness by sacrificing wages and rights. Our model is not a sacrifice of wages, nor is it a sacrifice of rights, it is to invest in innovation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Do we not look to the future looking to the new generations, from the children who have just been born to the young people who are looking for housing and work? Oh, my God! We look after the new generations, and looking at the new generations is looking at the future of our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Deputies, facts are facts : the highest tax burden we had - it was in 2015 - a tax burden of 34, 5 %. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u41	Today is not as low as we would like, but either in 2016, either in 2017, or in 2018, is always less than 34 % VV. Ex.. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u42	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u43	Mr. Member, last year the National Health Service, in primary care, provided further 607 000 consultations in hospitals, plus 50 000 consultations and 11 700 surgical interventions. It was so in 2016, it continues to be so in 2017 and will be even more so in 2018. Yes, we're having a National Health Service that serves citizens better, and that's our ambition. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Deputy spoke about the IRS. The IRS is low for those with the lowest incomes, which sees the threshold of extended exemption, low for the middle class, with the unfoldment of the steps, and even low for the highest steps, with the ultimate end of the overtax. There is a problem in some situations for those who take incomes of category B, but certainly, as a specialist, we are available to find answers to these situations, especially for the situation of small farmers who may be affected by the new taxation. But, and I draw your attention to this fact, by having extended the specific deduction and established agile mechanism, because e-Fature does not require a high bureaucratic burden, we have managed to create a situation where, assuredly, 90 % of category B income holders will pay less IRS with the new model than the one currently in force. This is the truth and, if possible, we are available to do so in the field of expertise. Finally, as far as businesses are concerned, Mr President, I will not repeat here what I will list with regard to tax measures to strengthen business capital. I will not repeat what we have done to stabilize the financial system and improve the financing conditions of the Portuguese economy, but I will give you a very important fact which must be particularly sensitive: the application of the Simple programme, the evaluation of which has already been made by the University of New, which the Government to which you belong frozen and which we have frozen, has allowed 624 million euros to be saved only last year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This, yes, is to support companies intelligently, with less bureaucracy, less tax burden and less context costs. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u44	To request clarification, Mr. João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u45	Mr President, Prime Minister, we have recently heard the PSD make an accusation to this State budget which we would not like to make clear. The PSD said that this budget had « no reforms ». The fact is that it is none of the reforms that the PSD and the CDS wanted to impose on the country if they were government today, such as cutting public services, privatizing public transport and cutting 600 million euros into pensions, as was included in the 2015 Stability and Growth Programme ( PEC). [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] It was the policy of the minimum state: to cut into public services, to privatize public transport and to cut into the national social security service, in pensions. But here is a criticism that the right has ceased to do in these days, about this State Budget. The right is no longer asking for a plan B, it is no longer saying that the government has hidden a plan B. The right is no longer saying that the Government is preparing additional measures with Brussels and hiding them. The right doesn't say that anymore,... [[PSD protests.]] ... as it no longer threatens that following this budget comes the corrective budget. [[PSD protests.]] Mr António Leitão Amaro recently fled his mouth to the truth, when he said that this is the third of the four Budgets of this Parliament and, in saying this, he acknowledged that, until the end of this Parliament, there will be no amending budget. [[Let's see!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u46	These criticisms, which have ceased to be addressed to this Budget, are indirect praise by the right, the PSD and the CDS. And also if you no longer hear criticism of the macroeconomic scenario that is based on this Budget, we have no longer heard these criticisms because you want national entities such as the Banco de Portugal or the Council of Public Finance, either the European Commission, the OECD and the IMF have their forecasts aligned with those of the Government. A second point, Mr. Prime Minister, is about the usual criticisms of the right on government conduct. PSD and CDS rejected this income-refund policy, saying that this would be a disaster for our economy. PSD and CDS failed: it continues to recover income and restore social rights, and the economy grows above expected. PSD and CDS refused to raise the national minimum wage and also refused to lower labour taxes, saying that these measures would stop job creation. The PSD and the CDS failed: against the will of the right, the national minimum wage rises and labour taxes fall, while at the same time helping to create more than 220 000 net jobs and unemployment falling at a faster rate than that of the euro area. Mr Prime Minister, this is the third budget of this Parliament and arises in a context of economic growth, labour market growth, stabilization of the financial sector and consolidation of public accounts. It is a Budget that reflects the PS electoral programme, as well as reproduces the Government Programme. We are confident of the success of this Budget, because we are confident that the new proposals will strengthen the strategic objectives of the Government Programme: reduction of labour taxes, end of the IRS overtax, revision of the IRS steps, increase of the minimum reference for existence that applies to dependent work and independent work, extraordinary increase in pensions, defrosting the progresses and careers of the Public Administration, increase in family allowance, increase in the solidarity complement for the elderly (CSI) and increase in support and incentives for investment and capitalization of enterprises. We highlight these proposals, because we consider them essential for the recovery of income, for the replacement of social rights, for the creation of employment, for social cohesion and for support for enterprises. The PSD will vote against this Budget, at a time when the economy grows above expectations, unemployment falls, the deficit falls to historical minimums and income recovery policies continue. In contrast, looking at previous governance, we remember wage cuts, cuts in pensions and cuts in social benefits and we also remember a brutal increase in taxes. Mr Prime Minister, the question I would like to ask is the following: does the PSD really agree that when it votes against this budget, it means to the country, although without the courage to assume it, which remains tied to the past, against the strengthening of public investment, against the increase in family allowance, against the increase in the solidarity supplement for the elderly, against the drop in labour taxes and against the extraordinary increase in pensions? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u47	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u48	Mr President, Mr João Paulo Correia, in fact it is difficult to understand what the PSD really wants for the future of the country, but I hope that, with a new leadership, it will be clarified what the PSD thinks. What we know is that clearly the PSD is lost among those who were the discourse about the results of governance and those who are the results achieved by this governance and, since it was lost, it has not yet been found. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u49	The truth is, if we remember, the PSD started saying the devil was coming. And now, when we have the greatest economic growth of the century, the lowest deficit in our democracy, the biggest decline in the debt of the last 19 years and sustained growth in employment, the devil is not here, the results are good and the PSD cannot hide the enormous frustration with regard to the results achieved. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But we need to remember more: the PSD began by saying that one of the results of the tragedy that this majority would cause would be the fact that, by increasing the national minimum wage and by resting wages and pensions, we will have more deficit and will run out of private investment. Moreover, they even asked: who is the private investor who will invest in a country where the government is associated with the dark and terrible popes of international communism? Oh, my God! The truth is that, over the past two years, what we see is that private investment has grown the greatest in the last 18 years with this Government, with this majority, with the support of the PCP, with the support of the Left Block and with the support of the Green Party. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] They said, I don't know if they still remember the stage in which public investment was diabolical. They said: 'The government is the repetition again of megalomanian public investment. It will be the return to this dark socraticism, which destroyed the country». [[That's it!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u50	It's the repetition of Socrates!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u51	Now, what's your criticism? Now, the criticism they make is the opposite: rather than bet on public investment, we bet on private investment. It's all contrary to what they said two years ago! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Therefore, the invitation I leave the PSD is for him to quit the devil, leave the dark talk and stop ghosts and concentrate on reality. [[Protests from PSD MP Inês Sundays.]] And reality is very simple: good policies give good results, as bad policies have produced bad results. You have had bad policies and bad results, we have good policies and, therefore, we have good results. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u52	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u53	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, we have reached this debate with the vote against the announced right and there is no novelty there, it is perfectly natural. But since the State budget has been presented so far, there are two arguments that the right has repeated and that, in my view, they need answers before we go to questions about the State budget more specifically. The first is that reforms to this State budget are lacking, or that this legislature lacks the ability to make reforms, forgetting the PSD and the CDS which, in fact, in its lexicon, "reform" means simply cuts in wages and pensions...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u54	It's true! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u55	... and that it is as structural to repose holidays, like yesterday's, as it was cut them.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u56	All right! [[Protests from PSD MP Inês Sundays.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u57	The difference is, when we rest, the one who wins is the one who lives from his work. The right can torture numbers at will, but what these two years prove is that it is recovering wages, pensions and rights from those who work that the economy grows and creates jobs. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] The second argument on the right against the State budget—and we have already heard it in this plenary—is serious, because it says something like this: « It is a State budget that responds to customers on the left». The same right that lowered taxes on the largest companies in the country and did "China's business" in energy, vissgold or privatization calls "serving customers" to recover wages and pensions... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ...and calls "customers" who worked or worked for a lifetime.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u58	Have shame! You must be looking into the mirror!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u59	Mrs. Members of the PSD and the CDS, do not mix us up for your dick, do not confuse us with you: we are working for those who live in your work! [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Let us leave the right hand to their crises and let us go to the complicated questions of this State budget. The Left Block recognises that, in this Budget, there is a fulfilment of the income recovery trajectory and that there is even an approximation to some of the main and most important proposals it has put forward.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u60	That's good.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u61	First of all, in the IRS, there are two new steps in a single year, and not the initial proposal for the creation of a step in two years, which, together with the updating of the minimum of existence, results in a tax relief for those who work that is twice what is registered in the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u62	That's good. They've got it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u63	As 2018 is the year without overtax, the Left Block is proud to have contributed to a proposal that, in the IRS, redistributes, has more justice and brings tax relief to all those who live from their work, wages and pensions, in this country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u64	See if there's anything left for the PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u65	Secondly, I refer to the pension updating rule, a theme that, for the Left Block, is very important. Mr. Prime Minister will remember-CL that, even before the 2015 elections, we placed on the table, as a pre-negotiative condition for a solution to the country, the defrosting of pensions. In 2018, we have the results of this effort : all pensions will be increased on January 1, 2018. More: with the amendments we have made in the meantime, we ensure that 90 % of the general scheme pensions and 80 % of the General Pension Fund ( GSC) pensions have real increases, i.e. all pensions up to about €850 have increases above inflation, even before the extraordinary August increases, which, being modest, make some way for the valuation of lower pensions. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u66	Thirdly, in the public service, we believe it is important that the defrosting of careers be done in the last two years of this legislature, because we cannot leave to the next government a commitment that is this majority. But, Prime Minister, there are problems we can't turn our faces against. in the defrosting of careers, it is inexplicable for teachers to stay out of the process.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u67	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u68	They had already left out of the extraordinary linkage of public administration precariouss and therefore put this issue in the front of our negotiations and in the State budget we have the extraordinary linkage of 3,500 teachers and the change of the norm-work for three years. But 13 years of freezing careers and wages cannot be answered. Teachers and teachers have achieved, in these 13 years, the results of excellence that we pride ourselves in public school. This merit and this effort cannot be rewarded by forgetting the State budget. Likewise, Prime Minister, we also need to respond to those people who, having very long contributions careers, have retired before last October and therefore with great penalties. The sustainability factor is a double penalty and we all know that this was the time to end it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u69	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u70	We still have the problem of those people who have been in a long-term unemployment situation and who, without any social response from the PSD and the CDS, have been forced to call for early reform with a huge penalty, to which we must also respond. This budget cannot leave the greatest damage to the destruction of the policy of the troika and the right. We have to respond to those who have poor pensions, but who have worked and contributed for a lifetime. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u71	Mr Prime Minister, in the IRS, already mentioned here today, the Government knows that the Left Block accompanies all measures to combat tax fraud and informality in the economy. We therefore believe that the simplified scheme can and must be moved and we know that the State budget already provides that 90 % of the green receipt workers will pay less taxes, being protected. But the regime needs to be simpler and clearer to fight fraud without harming the self-employed, who, more than ever, are still waiting for the contribution regime that was entered in the State Budget for 2017 and that the Left Block will not forget. Finally, Mr Prime Minister, I leave you with one last concern about this State budget. The Government must respond to public investment and the functioning of public services. The government has repeatedly executed less than what is budgeted. And for what? To achieve even lower deficit targets than those agreed with Brussels. We understand this: we all want certain public accounts, but reducing the deficit by creating new deficits, because they weaken essential functions of the State, is a dangerous path. It is necessary to respond for health, education, environment, culture, science, transport, justice and security, for so many sectors that are asphyxiated year after year.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u72	Who's listening to you?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u73	Mr. Prime Minister, what we want is a double guarantee: first, that in 2017 the investment and expenditure that were in the Budget are effectively executed, because there is no reason for greater force that can justify that they are not executed; and second, that the Budget for 2018 has an investment to even be executed. These are basic principles for any budget and for this majority, but, at the time the government has to respond to the tragedy of the fires and the responsibility to rebuild the country, it is a fundamental commitment. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u74	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u75	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins drew attention to another point of the duality of the right-wing speech: whenever we present a proposal that benefits the public service, the right says that we are working for our clientele, but every time some professional category of public service protests for this or that reason, the right runs immediately to support the protest, because it warms and supports any protest in any category of the Public Administration. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, we do not rule for customers, we rule for all workers. The merit of this majority is to have put an end to that artificial division that was systematically fed by the right, dividing Portuguese between one another. We do not rule for public officials unaware of what it is necessary to do to improve the living conditions of private sector workers, do not look at the new generations ignoring the attention that those who are older in our society deserve, we rule for everyone, whatever their generation and whatever their profession. This brand has also allowed us to create a new unit in the country, of confidence and strength in our collective future, and this is the trajectory that we have to ensure. It is true what Mrs Catarina Martins says about the IRS. The IRS actually goes down for everyone...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u76	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u77	... and in particular for those who live in the income of work. The right is to compare what is incomparable and compare the savings that the Portuguese will have of about EUR 490 million in the IRS taxation with an increase of EUR 30 million in the taxation of so-called salt products. Now, there is no comparison of one thing with the other, neither in the amount nor in the meaning, because in the income of work no one can choose whether to pay or not but the choice of what he buys or does not buy each can do it, being correct to give good incentives to have, all of us, a healthier life. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is also true what you said about self-employed people. Of course it is fair to approximate the income tax of category A with the income tax of category B. However, recognizing this specificity of category B, the Government accepts the proposal that there is already a deduction of expenditure up to a limit of 25 % of the annual gross income. But we have made other amendments here, which, with the introduction of the minimum of existence or with specific deductions, ensure that 90 % of the workers with a green receipt do not have any change or even benefit from their taxation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] All revenues up to €16,416 per year do not even need to present any expenditure to avoid being affected by this change. It is true that with this amendment we can introduce some problems in some specific situations, but that is why, at the stage of the specialty, we have complete openness to be able to answer and solve. With regard to thawings, all Public Administration careers, I repeat, all Public Administration careers are frozen, especially those of the teachers. There is, however, the fact that there are two distinct mechanisms of career progression throughout the Public Administration, and there are cases in which it simply counts the time and others in which there is an appreciation of merit. There is a problem that cannot be solved that has to do with the time that has not been counted in those careers whose progression is based solely on time. However, this does not mean that there is no progress and, in the evaluation we make, they are in a position to progress 46 000 teachers who, at the moment, meet all the conditions for their progress. That is why we must continue this course with the balance with which we have done so, in which the reduction of the deficit does not exist on our own. As the honourable Member has said — and well — there is no harm in reducing the deficit, no one has the dream of having a deficit, no one has the dream that there is greater public debt, on the contrary, we are well aware that we need to reduce the enormous weight that public debt has on our finances, because every euro we affect on debt service is a euro that we are not affecting the improvement of our National Health Service or the improvement of our public school. We therefore have good reasons for reducing debt, thereby reducing debt charges. We must do what we have managed to do over these years, in a balanced way, with better public finances but with better economy, especially with more employment, with greater social justice and responding to the social needs of the most disadvantaged. That is what we have done and that is what we will certainly continue to do in 2018, from now on based on the proposal presented here and with the improvement that the debate on the specialty will certainly allow to introduce. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u78	To ask for clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Cristas of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u79	Mr President, Prime Minister, throughout the month of September we have been reading news about the content of the State budget, at the time still in negotiations with its radical left-wing partners,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u80	We also have a radical right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u81	... and it has been generating the impression—that it is well-accommodated by the electoral timetable—that this would be the budget of a sea of roses: everything for everyone! From time to time we heard voices, more or less isolated, from their political area, from the rest to the Socialist Party's bench, doubting whether it was desirable or perhaps sustainable this option to give everything to everyone. The truth is that we arrived on Friday, October 13th — late, it is true — to realize that, after all, it was not exactly that way. This third PS Government Budget, Left Block, PCP,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u82	It's PEV!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u83	... again a Budget based on a very favourable external environment... PS government, Block, PCP! The government is PS, Block, PCP...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u84	It's PEV!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u85	And PEV, ready! ... CDU, if you want, and PAN! You can join the NAP too.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u86	If it's to say nonsense, just name the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u87	Sir, let me continue. This budget, based on a very favourable external environment, perhaps the most favourable external environment that a Prime Minister has ever had, is in fact an unequal budget, is a very short budget and is an untransparent budget. It is an untransparent budget because again it carries on indirect taxes and because it is prepared, in its execution, to settle on large-scale captives, on blind cuts, which affect essential services ranging from health to education, vocational training, public transport, which, at the end of the day, are a new austerity, different, encapsulated, not transparent. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u88	It is an unequal budget, because under a cloak of propaganda to give everything to everyone, it hides a Budget that forgets many Portuguese. It is unequal for self-employed people, who often have made an option to work on their own, to create their own jobs or to work in areas of liberal practice in the professions. When it announces the fall of the IRS for all but without explaining what will happen to these workers — we now hear a slightly different explanation — this PS government, BE, PCP, The Greens and PAN is a brutal attack, without precedent, to all those who are in the simplified regime of independent workers. in fact, the government, without assuming — I think it could have the transparency of taking on — is killing the simplified regime. [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u89	This scheme, which covers about 600 000 workers, covers, for example, 85 % of farmers. I note that Mr Prime Minister has already realized what he may be doing to farmers. [[PS protests.]] Accounts made, depending on the specific activity, there are those who suffer an increase of 20 % to 25 % and in certain areas of agriculture—see that irony, Prime Minister! — small forest owners, for example, may increase their income by 500 % or 600 %!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u90	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u91	Mr. Prime Minister, in the CDS we are directly against this attack on self-employed people and, moreover, we believe that it violates the constitutional principle of equality.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u92	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u93	But this Budget is an unequal budget for families with children. And I would like to stress again that the fiscally fairest regime is that of the family quotient that your government has revoked and that, after comparing it with and without family quotient, it has already had time to respond. This is what has existed in France for decades, with a unique result. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u94	instead, the change now introduced in the IRS turns out that the most beneficial of all are single children without children. For a country that has a very serious birth problem, this shows as well as its government is unable to look and solve anything that is structural and enters into contradictions at each step. That is why I say: it is an unequal budget and short-sighted budget. But it is also uneven between the various steps of the IRS. When the country fell into bankruptcy at the hands of a predecessor, it was necessary that everyone contributed and those who had the most contributed. Now, fortunately, it is possible to alleviate the tax, being unfair and unacceptable that it does not degrade for everyone. Once again, it is unequal and has short views because it does not favor social mobility nor gives the right signal to people, the sign that it is worth working and progressing in life. But it is also unequal for users of the National Health Service, who feel in the skin the degradation of the quality of services, a direct consequence of lack of money and blind cuts, which appear in very different forms: postponed surgeries, lack of treatments and even requests for patients to carry their sheets. [[What a shame!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u95	It is unequal for students and teachers, who live in the skin the captives in the form of schools so often degraded or without assistants that guarantee their proper functioning.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u96	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u97	It is unequal because it forgets companies, it ignores that economic growth, the creation of wealth and the sustainable creation of precise jobs for businesses and private investment. Mr. Prime Minister tells us here that you have a lot. Look, I talked to all the social partners and what they said is that they have nothing for companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u98	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u99	I do not say so, I say that this Budget of the PS, of the Block, of the PCP, of the Greens and of the PAN has very little or almost nothing. in his words, they have very little for companies. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[PS protests.]] It maintains the failure of the reached consensus of progressive decline in the IRC rate, does not contain measures to promote investment, to encourage business capitalisation or to assist professional qualification, which, moreover, Prime Minister, is only a priority in the lexicon of the government because the reality here again is of captive money, of paralysed and cut training courses. Once again, it is an unequal budget and short-sighted budget. From very short views, of course, because, in the past, the reduction in IRC resulted in more tax collection and proved that the dichotomy so often tested by the left that either drops the IRS or drops the IRC, that both things are not possible. That's not true! It has been proven that it is possible to download the IRC and thus raise more tax. So what would be expected was that your government would now lower the IRS and also lower the IRC. It is a short-sighted budget because the government assumes a scenario of slowing down the growth of the economy and does nothing to counter it. in last year's budget report came the truth, saying that the economy needs private investment to grow and needs exports, which, after all, does not only go with domestic consumption, but does not remove any consequences or correct anything that is its trajectory. Finally, it is an unequal budget because it forgets territory and territorial cohesion. I remember that this is a post-Pedrogan budget, it is a budget that should take answers that we simply do not see there. Now, Mr. Prime Minister told us that they would be, and we want to know where. They are not at the level of an extended vision for the interior, they are not at the level of money for agriculture and for the forest, they are not at the level of civil protection and fire fighting and, worse, when it attacks the workers of the simplified regime it is also attacking the interior of the country and all those who have settled there and created their own job. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u100	I would say that this is the Budget of those who distrust companies, do not tolerate entrepreneurs, do not accept that someone can go up in life without depending on the state, but that he distributes resources by those who are more organized and are more noisy and not by all Portuguese. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u101	This is the Budget of the Skilled, of the Tricks, of those who look to the Country as a board game and of those who prefer today and then soon you see tomorrow. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u102	But there's an entire country waiting for a better budget and it's already worth it. In the face of this unequal budget, of short sights, whose execution is again based on captives, the CDS will vote against, but as always, we will present our proposals that well mirror an alternative vision for the country, a country where the workers on behalf of others and the self-employed are treated with the same attention, where people with more and less incomes have an equitable look on the part of the State, where companies feel that they are essential players of economic development, where people are stimulated in their entrepreneurship and where territorial cohesion is, in fact, a great priority. That is why, and because I think that there are proposals that are above the parties, I dare Mr. Prime Minister to say how he will accept the CDS proposals, and I will mention three, very specifically: firstly, is he available to approve a tax regime for the interior of the country, which combines IRC with IRS, which interferes in the provision of funds for the reconstruction and capture of businesses and people to the interior territories, many of them devastated by fires? in the same line, are you or are you not available to create a mission unit for the reconstruction of the burned territories, linking private and public entities and companies in need of support? It's not the same one you've announced, it's another very specific to help with reconstruction. Secondly, is it or is it not available to exclude captivating in the funds for vocational training and, for once, to bring the Government's speech into line with the reality that the evidence, in particular, ensuring that the use of Community funds can in fact be used in these areas without money captivating? I also ask whether a more favourable scheme can be accepted for companies to deduct costs with the training of their workers. Finally, are you or are you not available to simply drop this attack on workers who are independent of the simplified regime, in obedience to the constitutional principle of equality? And if you say it's only 10 %, then more reason than that, don't move in the regime and don't attack even 10 %. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u103	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u104	Mr President, Mrs Christian Assumption, it is true that this is not a 'Holy Queen' budget and therefore it is not just a pink budget. But it is a real budget, and that is why we should, precisely, re-establish the starting point for the debate. I have found that, lately, the honourable Member has brought less graphics to the debate, perhaps because the evolution of the graphics has been contrary to the advance that the honourable Member had on the evolution of the country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member says that this government is going to the European Union,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u105	I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u106	... with the Portuguese economy growing more than the European economy, after having integrated a government during which Portugal has always grown less than Europe. You need to have little memory... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...and get the arguments a little above the knee. With regard to children, the honourable Member insists that it is fair that the more a family earns more can deduct by its children, instead of each child being treated equally, whether it is a family of highs or low incomes. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u107	That's not it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u108	That's it, that's it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u109	Because I understand that treating a child exactly is recognizing that she is worth the same whatever she was born into a wealthy family, whether she was born into a family with no incomes. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Looking for the future is to increase family allowance, it is to increase investment in day care centers, it is to universalize preschool up to 3 years old, it is to increase and invest in improving educational success, with the flexibility of curricula, with the reduction of students by class in the Educational Areas of Priority Intervention. That, yes, is taking care of the children. Looking to the future is also to look after young people who today have more opportunities to enter higher education than they had before, and it is very proud that for the second consecutive year, we see the number of students in higher education being extended, i.e. the number of young people with more opportunity to integrate into life and be able to have more and better employment in the future. Looking at children, young people and families is also launching a new generation of housing policies, which not bet on the eviction but on the universal right to housing for all families. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Is it a short-sighted budget that bets on strengthening investment in culture, science, education, as drivers of the knowledge society? His view of the future is that he is stuck in the past, because the honourable Member persists in a model of development, in which, instead of investing in innovation, he invests in low wages and precariousness. Now, this is not a vision of the future, Madam Member, it is a vision of the past. That is not the economy that the country needs for the future. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That is why, Mrs. Member, when you will see what companies have to win or lose in a Budget you will see at the nominal rate of IRC, when what we actually have to do is create the best conditions for companies to be able to invest. And if there is something we can take pride in, it is the day we arrived at the government, Portugal 2020 had arrived at EUR 400 million companies, this year will reach EUR 1250 million and by the year EUR 2000 million for companies to be able to invest. That is why we had an IFD ( Financial Development Institution ) which was a acronym and today we have an IFD that has a line from the EIB ( European Investment Bank ) to be able to finance companies in more than 250 million euros, to be able to invest. Instead of putting the catastrophic situation in the financial system under the carpet in 2015, we focused on stabilizing this system, rehabilitating the Republic on the market, creating better financing conditions for the Portuguese economy. And here we are implementing the Capitalisation Programme so that companies can have more own capital and better conditions to invest. These are the companies we want, the ones that invest in innovation, the ones that create quality jobs, the ones that do not prejudge, the ones that invest in vocational training and the improvement of their frameworks. Mrs Deputy, on her three questions, and specifically on the mission unit for the revitalization of the destroyed territory, is already created, it is already installed in Pedrogon, it is already working and we will certainly not duplicate the structures of the Public Administration. With regard to the decoupling of the funds, Mrs Deputy, the funds relating to the national participation of Community investments are not subject to captivity and therefore there is no point of decoupling. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u110	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u111	As regards the green receipt scheme, I have already had the opportunity to demonstrate that 90 % of the income holders on the basis of green receipts will be benefited or will not be adversely affected. I admit that there are some topical situations in which this can happen and, in this case, we will be available here to correct. With regard to improvements in taxation for the inside, good, if it is not to revoke, again, the tax benefits for the installation of businesses within which you have revoked and which we reject, we are available to debate and wait to see your proposals in the specialty. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u112	Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u113	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, are not indifferent to workers and the people to have a State budget for cuts in rights and incomes, to exacerbate exploitation and impoverishment or to have a State budget that consolidates rights and incomes that have been returned and takes new steps towards that return. But it must also be said that the response to serious national problems requires other options and measures. The response to the structural problems of our country is, of course, due to the return of rights and incomes, but it requires options to break with the right-wing policy, the use of national resources for the development of the country, the release of Portugal from the internal and external constraints that have afflicted us, requires the realization of the patriotic alternative and left-wing policy in all its dimensions. For this reason, the CFP assesses this proposal for a State budget in terms which are known and which can be summarized in three essential points: firstly, we value the elements of the budget proposal which consolidate the measures for the replacement of rights and incomes taken in the last two State budgets and the new advances towards that replacement.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u114	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u115	Secondly, we do not hide our divergence and disagreement with the options that limit the State budget in the response that it was possible and necessary to give to the country's structural problems and, thirdly, we reaffirm the need for the patriotic alternative and left-wing policy on all its essential axes, policy indispensable to withdraw the country from the situation for which it was pushed by decades of right-wing policy. We make this appreciation with the exact notion of the importance of the advances that are achieved and consolidate, with the notion that it is important and positive to have in 2018 a new extraordinary increase in pensions and reforms that enables the purchase power of pensioners and pensioners; to relieve the IRS to whom it has lower incomes, updating the minimum of existence and changing its steps; to be returned to the employees of the Public Administration in the progression in careers, in the payment of extraordinary hours, of night work, quality hours, in the payment of the entire Christmas allowance or in the review of the pay table of the operational assistants. We make this appreciation with the notion that in all that is advancement and conquest is present the struggle of the Portuguese workers and people and also the intervention of the CFP, its contribution, its proposals and its persistence. Today, being Finados' Day, we are not surprised that the PSD and CDS have come here to pay tribute to their policy of cuts, of impoverishment and exploitation, which, on the part of the CFP, we hope that it will be buried in the past of our national life and that it will not be recovered by whoever it is. [[PCP applause.]] by the PCP, Mr Prime Minister, we will do everything to ensure that this policy is definitely closed and that it can be another cycle of policy options to be taken. Therefore, Mr Prime Minister, the questions I would like to ask you have to do with the debate that is still needed in the debate on this budget, not only to take further progress already made in the replacement of rights and incomes but also to consider progress in responding to some structural problems in the country. As I have already said, we value the advances, not only those consolidated but those that the budget proposal itself points out. However, we cannot ignore concerns that remain and that need to be answered. First of all, we have concerns about the urgency and current urgency of the budgetary response, with the problem of fires, which, of course, must be debated and further discussed in the debate in the specialty. We also have concerns about the general increase in wages, with the conviction that the fairness and the need for proposals presented by the CFP is becoming increasingly evident. We reaffirm our conviction and commitment to beat us by increasing the national minimum wage to 600 €, already from 1 January 2018, by increasing the wages of all workers, including those of the Public Administration and the State business sector. We also have concerns, Mr Prime Minister, with the fight against precariousness, which needs to have further progress not only in the field of public administration but also in the private sector, and concerns about the need to strengthen public investment at levels that meet the needs of the country, the resolution of current problems, but also the development of the future that we want. We have concerns about the economic policy of supporting the productive sectors and national production, concerns about strengthening public services, not only in the areas of health, education, social security, where many of the concrete measures have already been announced regarding the debate that needs to be done in the Budget, but also concerns about the conditions they have in order to carry out their missions the security services and forces and the armed forces. There are concerns, Mr Prime Minister, that still remain present with regard to public administration workers, not only in the way the career progression rules are drawn up in the budget proposal, which we believe should still be considered, but also in concerns with measures that have to do with specific sectors that see many of their expectations and desires, in part, committed, such as teachers, but also other careers, which, because of the rules that are planned for career progression, may be frustrated by the expectations and may, above all, be more worrying — and this is more worrying — to see careless service time that, for years, has been frozen and now may be with the prospect of being definitely disregarded. Also in the area of social security, Mr Prime Minister, in relation to long-term contribution careers, measures have already been taken with the recent adoption of the decree which has made it possible for more easy access to early reform to those who have long-term contribution careers. It is necessary to set a timetable for the implementation of the other two phases of this reform, in relation to the long-term contribution careers that need to be taken forward. It is also necessary to consider measures to redress the injustices of workers who were victims, in their reforms, of the sustainability factor, and these are not only issues of the lower reforms. There are tens of thousands of pensioners and pensioners who have seen years and years of discounts be reduced to almost zero, with the penalties they have targeted. In fiscal policy too, Mr Prime Minister, it is necessary to consider a discussion which allows for the taxing of capital to be broken down with this situation, with a taxation which is beyond what would be fair and necessary, with the examples we still have, the transfers to offshore, and with measures to be taken in this regard, in particular with regard to the compulsory collection of income. Mr Prime Minister, there is also another concern that we could not stop putting in this budgetary debate and that it has to do with the options that need to be made to free Portugal from the constraints that prevent this fundamental response to the country's problems, options that release the country from the obsession with reducing the deficit in conditions that are absolutely contrary to the interests of the country and our needs, which free us from the constraints of the European Union, the euro and the budget treaty, which hinder a policy that truly responds to the needs of the country, and which sets a path of development, progress and social justice. These are issues that we have to discuss in the discussion of this State budget for 2018. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u116	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u117	Mr President, Mr. João Oliveira, in my answers, I am not able to compete with you in terms of the torrentiality of the issues you are asking. Part of the questions will certainly be answered either by the Minister of Finance or by the Minister of Labour, during his speeches, and, in the debate on the subject, we will continue the common examination we have been developing with the CFP Parliamentary Group in order to find answers to many of the questions he has raised and where, often, what is away from us is not exactly a disagreement about the goodness of the measure, but it is about the effective capacity to accommodate the measure. But I would not fail to answer the first of the questions you have raised and which concerns the effort that this Budget will have to make to respond, too, to the calamities that affected the country on 17 June and 15 October. at this time, we are doing a very intense work involving the Ministries of Agriculture, the Environment, the Internal Administration, the National Defence and Planning and Infrastructure, in order to identify the budgetary coverage needs for the repair of compensation due to the family members of the fatal victims and, moreover, the reconstruction of housing, municipal equipment, affected companies and essential infrastructure, while we are working on what is also absolutely fundamental and that we create the best conditions to protect what is priority to protect. at this time, we have identified 19 areas, in the different regions of the country, which we consider priority to be intervention: Montesinho ; the Vimio / Mogadouro/ Alfândega da Fé; Vila Real, Vila Pouca de Aguiar, Ribeira de Pena ; Parque Nacional da Peneda-Geres ; Corno de Bico ; Camino-Carreço ; all the area of the Serra da Malcata ; the Cordeiro Branco / Sertã ; the corridor between A1 and A13 Tomar, Fátima e Penela ; the Serra de Air and Candeeiros ; Correche e Ponte-de-Sor ; the Serra de São Mamede ; Serras de Sintra and Mafra ; the Serra da Arrábida and surrounding ; the Serra de Ossa ; the entire coastal area that runs from the south of Setúbal to Monchique and that includes Odemira, the Guadiana valley and the Elvas corridor at the border. They are priority areas because they are areas of greater ecological value, of greater productive capacity, areas where, in recent years, there have been, fortunately, low fire areas and their protection must be priority. There the construction of the primary network, the strengthening of the surveillance elements, be it of the forest guards, be it of the nature guards, the strengthening of the capacity of professional intervention, through the Protection and Relief Intervention Group of the Republican National Guard, and the redirection of the operational capacities of the Emergency Military Support Regime are absolutely priority. We are therefore making an effort to, until 17 November, which I believe is the deadline for tabling amendments to the specialty, we can have amendments here that will enable us to respond to these needs, either by strengthening means or by creating better conditions, for municipalities, in particular, to be able to intervene in the reconstruction of their own equipment and to help revive the economic and social fabric throughout this territory. At the same time, we must not ignore the priority given to forest reform, the entire internal revitalization programme and also necessarily the reform of the forest fire prevention and control model as a result of the report of the Independent Technical Commission adopted by the Assembly of the Republic. That is why it will be a very demanding year, which will necessarily put increased demands on the State Budget for 2018 and in which we will also work in the field of specialty. As regards the other issues, they are well registered, they are part of the agenda of our common examination which has not ended and which, I repeat, will continue to work in the specialty. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u118	Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u119	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, today we are discussing the State Budget for 2018 and, despite the discussion being still at the beginning, we all perceive reasons for the discomfort of the PSD and CDS with this Budget. And we understand the reasons why both the PSD and the CDS cannot hide what they really wanted with this Budget, that it was that it would return to the policies of impoverishment and austerity that marked the budgets of the previous Government, that it would be a Budget that would again weaken the social functions of the State and that the rights withdrawn during those four years would not be returned. What the PSD and the CDS wanted was that this budget would again weaken the income of families and that there would be no strengthening of social support, that there would be no tax relief on labour income and that the social state would continue to weaken. Therefore, it is not strange how PSD and CDS look at this Budget. Mr Prime Minister, in fact, it may not please everyone, but the fact is that in this Budget there is an effort to continue to promote the rebalancing of family budgets, the recovery of family income, the return of rights which PSD and CDS have removed to Portuguese and there is an effort to continue to curb the weakening of the social state which the previous government imposed on the country. This is because, whether it agrees or not, the truth is that this Budget represents a continuation of the essential lines initiated with the State Budget for 2016 and that it is being translated into the replacement of rights and the return of income that the PSD/CDS Government has withdrawn to families. It may be little, it may be insufficient, but the truth is that this Budget comes to give continuity to the road started in 2016, which The Greens consider absolutely fundamental and decisive. This State budget, in some areas, is still far from essential to meet the needs of the country and the Portuguese, also in terms of strengthening the defence of environmental values, which means that the Greens will continue to work in a responsible way to respond to people's needs and to strengthen environmental sustainability, in particular through our proposals in the field of expertise. I am referring, for example, to the proposals on mobility, in order to create more incentives for the use of public transport or even proposals to promote, through taxation, micro-production of energy. But despite this, this State budget reflects a deliberate effort to accentuate the reversal of the policies of the previous government, which were indeed marked by the contempt with which it looked at micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, by the absolute paralysis of our economic activity, by the frightening advance of unemployment and, above all, by the widespread impoverishment of families. This effort to reverse policies must of course be emphasized, but there are issues which the Greens have to bring to debate and which have to do with the need for strong public investment of quality, particularly in rail. Mr. Prime Minister, the railway bet is a requirement of today, it is a bet that has to be made, for all reasons: not only because mobility constituted a right of populations but also because railway brings environmental advantages, in addition to being able to boost the development of many areas of the country, especially the most unprotected. The question I would like to leave to you on this point, Prime Minister, is to what extent, from the Government's perspective, this budget is responding to the need to invest seriously in the railway. Next, Mr. Prime Minister, on public-private partnerships, the value entered for 2018 in public-private partnerships in the road sector, and I refer only to the PPPs in the road sector, is higher than more than EUR 40 million in relation to what was planned for next year in the State budget report for 2017. What we believe is that it is absolutely imperative to renegotiate public-private partnerships, especially road-based partnerships, in order to reduce the high burdens that continue to involve taxpayers today. Mr Prime Minister, what I am asking is whether there is room and availability by the Government to renegotiate public-private partnerships, particularly those in the road sector. Finally, Mr Prime Minister, about the fires that devastated the country and that had consequences of an unparalleled gravity in our history, Mr Prime Minister has already assured us that there would be budgetary allocation to respond to the problems caused by the fires, which we must necessarily value, but it is also necessary to start implementing structural measures for our forest, in order not only to take care of our forest but also, above all, to avoid tragedies such as those we live in a recent past. Mr Prime Minister, in this matter, I was interested in telling us how or to what extent this budget is responding to this need to implement structural measures for our forest. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u120	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u121	Mr President, Mr José Luís Ferreira, in fact this is a future and continuity budget and the continuity of good policies has yielded good results, so they deserve to be continued. We are in the middle of the Legislature, we are in the middle of the road and when the path leads us to good results what we must do is very simple: it is not to change the way, especially not to walk back and continue forward with confidence and determination to do what is lacking. It is with this attitude and with this proposal that we are in this budgetary debate. This proposal also aims to accommodate a new vision of the energy paradigm for which we have to transit, which implies that we bet on the diversification of energy production sources in order to depend less on fossil energy and also implies a new view on mobility. Clearly, in our investment, the priority is investment in large rail corridors. Briefly, we will start the rest of the work that is necessary in the south corridor that will bind Sines to Caia and also begin to do the work of the Beira Baixa Line, which will allow you to make the bypass necessary for the execution of the link work from Aveiro to Salamanca. These investment works are priority works, but we are also increasing investment in the CP as a whole because we know well that rail is not only essential for international trade, for international links, but also of the greatest importance for internal links. That is why the connection of Porto to Braga is in operation and is being improved and that is how we will continue to invest in the railway. Regarding the forest, the investment we are going to make is not just the investment associated with the prevention or fight against forest fires. Investing in the forest is much more than that, we have better conditions to face the challenge of climate change — it is a large consumer of CO2 — and it is also essential to improve the resilience of the territory with a view to having a more friendly forest of people's fixation and the creation of income, also helping to revitalize the whole interior. We presented to the European Commission a project, the treatment of which President Juncker asked the Commissioner responsible for regional development to give priority to this priority, which would enable us to develop, together with these 19 priority areas which I mentioned recently, an integrated programme aimed at responding to what is necessary to do: strengthening structural prevention; improving forest protection; increasing the forest area of public utility; promoting forest associationivism, recognition and awareness of forest populations; creating wood storage parks and also accelerating our registration project. In addition, it is also necessary to dynamize a set of economic activities associated with forests, whether related to wild fruits, whatever the result of beekeeping, whatever the result of the exploitation of endogenous products, which are factors of creation of a local economy that helps to dynamize and revitalize this whole territory, together with the appreciation of nature tourism, which has had a very important growth and is a differential offer that will help our tourism not to be a seasonal activity but, on the contrary, an activity that can be carried out for 365 days per year. The forest was, as you know, at the center of our National Reform Programme and is one of the fundamental pillars of the document that we placed in public discussion in June for the strategy of Portugal after-2020. This was one of the main reforms we presented here in the Assembly of the Republic in April of this year, so before the tragedy that occurred. For a long time we have established that the forest would be one of our resources that it is important to value in order to have more sustainable development in Portugal. Thank you very much for the questions you have raised, Mr President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u122	To request clarification, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u123	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the middle of this Parliament we can say that Portuguese society is today more just and more cohesive. We value the Government's effort in the path of replacement of Portuguese income, with the updating and increase of pensions, with the defrosting of careers in the public service and with the increase of steps in the IRS. This strategy should be emphasized in a framework where the unemployment rate is at least historical, reflecting a positive reaction from the economy to the public policies implemented. We recognize this budget's efforts to ensure the economic security of citizens, but we believe that more is needed than a material and short-term welfare strategy. For the NAP, the country needs a long-term vision and sustainability. As growth does not necessarily imply development, it is important to discuss the options of the Ministry of Agriculture, which is obviously counter-cyclical in terms of sustainability policies. We do not find in this budget a measure relating to organic agriculture. instead of investing in a more sustainable and healthier way of food production, which would contribute to fixing people in the country, we continue to pay to pollute, that is, continue to invest in conventional agriculture that is destroying our ecosystems. We will propose, as a specialist, 13 low-cost measures to implement the National Strategy for Biological Agriculture, which has not yet emerged from the role. Moreover, Mr Prime Minister: we have been in a dry state since 2009 and the state has been betting on irrigation, which wastes about 40 % of the water, focuses on intensive productions and uses the massive use of pesticides, which destroy soils and biodiversity. in the framework of the drought in which we live, the Government warned that the Portuguese people and the authorities had to make 'parcimonious use' of the water and said that it was going to set up a awareness-raising campaign. But it has not been said that domestic use is responsible for only 20 % of consumption, while agriculture and livestock consume 75% of the country's water, nor has it been said that it is exactly domestic use, which is the least spent, which continues to be the great funder of the water resource rate, by about 60 %. on the contrary, irrigation and intensive livestock are the ones that most waste and the ones who pay the least. We will repeat this year the presentation of the proposal to amend the definition of the water resource rate, which had been piped a year ago. We also recall, Mr. Prime Minister, that Portugal is the sixth country in the world with the largest water footprint. According to FAO, the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization, production of 1 kg of beef involves an average expenditure of 15 000 litres of water, equivalent to 600 showers of 5 minutes, i.e. 20 months of daily showers. Mr. Prime Minister, you will agree that animal production has a colossal water footprint. Will this information be transmitted in the awareness campaign next week or will economic operators not be disturbed? In addition, Mr. Prime Minister, the production of food such as milk, meat or vegetables of intensive agriculture is contributing to the widespread pollution of groundwater. In the face of a scenario of total unsustainability, the strategy of the Ministry of Agriculture has been to pay for pollution. Between aid, exemptions and various benefits, there are many million euros of public money that the Government allocates to meat producers and to the milk business. Here, the Government and the Assembly of the Republic are holding hands to finance the largest polluters in the country. Mr Prime Minister, it gives the idea that « the kings of cattle» are the ones who command the Ministry of Agriculture and the country. The NAP argues that the State should not pay subsidies that distort climate reality and impose inappropriate production modes, expensive and generating irreversible damage to agriculture and the environment. But the Ministry of the Environment has also been pleased with this polluting stance. The Minister of the Environment has already ensured that he will take tougher measures without looking at the importance of these economic operators. But what measures will that be? Oh, my God! Will the state finally shut down the pulp and livestock industries that kill the Tejo, Lis and all the country's water masses every day? And by what means? It is that by 2018 the Portuguese Environment Agency has less than EUR 4 million in budget, which constitutes a very worrying disinvestment. The Ministry of Health also reveals the enormous pressure of the all-powerful livestock sector. in the context of excise duties, a tax on foods with a high salt content was created, with which we agree. But why were the meat processed out? In addition, the World Health Organization has already considered meat processed as carcinogenic of type 1, placing them in the category of tobacco and asbestos. I repeat: the World Health Organization, which is so credible! Mr Prime Minister, should not the criterion for applying sugar and salt rates be more coherent and cross-cutting to all sectors? To all this, it adds the lack of nutritionists in the National Health Service and in the public school, a problem for which we will continue to work.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u124	You've outlived your time. I ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u125	Mr. Prime Minister, to finish...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u126	Mr President, after all, you can continue, since the time that has passed today will be discounted in the time it is allocated for tomorrow.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u127	Mr. President, anyway, I'm really finishing up. I would just like to point out that the Government can include the NAP measures in this State budget and strengthen the way for a truly sustainable, circular and decarbonized economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u128	Mrs. Members, with the exception of the Government, the PS and the PSD, the other parliamentary groups can manage time as they wish. Mr André Silva, in your specific case, you can use the five minutes you are due for tomorrow's debate today. In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u129	Mr President, Mr André Silva, we have implemented the National Strategy for Biological Agriculture and we are, of course, available to assess, in the field of expertise, the 13 proposals you announced you will present, considering them one by one to see what is the evaluation we make of them. With regard to irrigation, we believe that we must make good use of water compatible with investment which also enables us to improve the development of our territory. Today we have a paradigmatic case: for decades it was discussed whether or not to make the Alqueva and the truth is that today it is consensual that the Alqueva project has fallen late, which has delayed, for decades, the development of the Alentejo. Thanks to this dam, today we have the development of this whole region, which is absolutely essential for the modernization of our country. We're not going to have a laugh all over the place, but we have a recreation plan. We have been negotiating its funding with the European Investment Bank and we have an ambition to extend the irrigation area to more than 90 000 ha so that we can improve the quality of our agricultural production. If we improve the quality of our agricultural production with the proper use of water, we will be less dependent on other techniques for improving agricultural production that are more environmentally harmful to the environment and the quality of food, a priority which we must pursue in order to achieve this objective of improving our agricultural production. We have this plan, I beat ourselves for it, and we think it's useful for the future of the country. In addition, the development of irrigation increases the ability to better manage the water cycle, to be able to limit the use of brake sheets, to increase the storage capacity of the existing aquifer resources that must be protected. for the first time this year, an entrepreneur was arrested for committing pollution crimes on a water line. We must continue to strengthen this capacity to defend our water resources. It is true that the country suffers from a severe drought that there is no memory, which necessarily meant that the Government, several months ago, began to take preventive measures to respond to this situation. at this moment, with the exception of the Fagilde dam, which serves Viseu, in them and Mangualde, all other dams have sufficient water reserve for more than one year. But this does not mean that we do not have to take saving measures already to prevent us from spreading this shortage. in the same way that the Waters of Portugal, in advance, made an important investment of half a million euros for the acquisition of tank trucks that would ensure that there would be no water in the Portuguese tap, and only in the operation that has been going on in Viseu was an investment of €250 000 to ensure that there is no water in this municipality, we well know that it is better to prevent than to remedy and therefore, as a result of the National Water Council, a plan of saving and active information from the Portuguese was adopted on how each of us, in the simplest way, can contribute to saving water, which is a valuable and indispensable good for the lives of human beings, of all living beings, and also to our agriculture. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u130	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now entering the second stage of requests for clarification. Members of the PSD, PS, BE, CDS and PCP are registered for this phase. To request clarification, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u131	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, once again resumed in this debate in accusing the PSD of frustration because what eventually the PSD anticipated...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u132	Not possibly! Really!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u133	...that would happen in economic and financial terms did not happen. I'll return that charge, Prime Minister. Everything Mr. Prime Minister said before being in the 2015 legislative campaign that he lost, and as for the lines of his financial and economic programme, which he promised in the Assembly of the Republic, all of this fell to the ground. Mr. Prime Minister said that the economy would grow through increased consumption, but that is not what is happening. [[Protests by PS João Galamba.]] The Prime Minister has devalued the role of exports in economic growth, contrary to what the previous government had done. For it is through exports, in particular, of tourism, that the economy is growing and that the balance of public accounts is being established. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u134	Mr. Prime Minister, the only reason for your joy and not frustration is in fact to be watching the radical extreme-left parties "eating" all that they said and promised in programmatic terms before, during and after the 2015 legislative elections. I understand that joy, Prime Minister! [[PSD applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, the country has experienced an unprecedented tragedy in these forest fires: 110 were killed and more than 500 000 ha burned. What the country assisted was a complete balbodia in the system of protection, prevention and firefighting. What the country saw was lack of leadership by government entities. What the country saw was a lack of coordination. But the country has also seen another thing: Mr Prime Prime Minister for more than a decade ago, when he was Minister of Internal Administration, he has set up a system, of which Mr Prime Prime Minister is the father, mother and face, the SIRESP (Integrated Networks System of Emergency and Security and Security and Security Networks of Portugal ), and we know what happened to SIRESP during the period of fire-fire ; Mr Prime Minister has concluded the contracts of the Kamovvs, mother and face, the SIRESP (Integrated Networks of Emergency and Security and Security Security Networks System of Portugal ), and we know what happened to SIREPS during the period of fire ; Mr Prime Minister has concluded the contracts of the Kamov guards, and we know what is happening in the period of fire-fire during this period, and we know what is happening in practice with the forest guards and it is recognized by everyone and we see what we know from all reports we know that forest naming of parties, what the forest appointment have been lacking in this period of fire during this period of fire; what the lack of recognition of merit recognition of merit of merit of merit of merit, what the merit of the merit of the strength of the authority of the authority of the authority of the use of the use of the use of the use of the use of the use of the use of the use of the use of the use of the use of the honour of the honour of the honour of the Union. as as as as as as as has has has has has has has has has has has has has been made. has been used as as as as has has has has has has been used has been the honour of the honour of the honour of the honour of its has has has has has has has been used as as as as as has been used as as as as as has has has has has has has has has has has has been used as as as as as as as as as as as as as as has been used. Mr Prime Minister, but we have to ask you more: how is it possible that the level budgeted for the prevention and fight against fires in the years when your government has been in office has decreased so clearly in 2016, 2017 and what is known for 2018? Not even in the lead years of the troika, when we were trying to reinstate the country that your party's government stuck in bankruptcy, not even at that time, Prime Minister, the steep cuts in civil protection were as hard as in the time of your government. These are the facts! The facts are unforgettable! [[At this moment, the speaker displayed a chart on spending with civil protection and firefighting.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u135	They are not facts; they are falsehoods!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u136	So let's go to the General State Account. [[At the moment, the speaker again displayed a chart on expenditure with civil protection and fire fighting — CGE’.]] Let's see what was actually executed and the portrait is the same: what was spent on preventing and fighting fires decreased in 2016, decreased in 2017...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u137	Don't! Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u138	Don't say no, Prime Minister! They're facts!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u139	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u140	They're facts! It's the General State Account! Don't deny the evidence! Don't deny reality! Mr. Prime Minister, does he not recognise that there is a link of evident causality beyond the incompetence of the people whom Mr. Prime Minister has appointed to the Government and also to the National Civil Protection Authority? Don't you recognize that there's a connection between the tragedy that happened to us and the cuts in the civil protection system? Are you not sorry to have made these cuts and, with that, to have disarmed the civil protection system in Portugal?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u141	It's regrettable!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u142	What do you intend to do about the State Budget for 2018 where, once again, what is included in the Budget that we are discussing is less than what was registered during the years when the PSD and the CDS were in the government, with so many difficulties arising from the action of a government of your party, a government that you have even joined a few years before and that you launched Portugal in bankruptcy? Are you happy with what's happened, or are you going to fix it? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u143	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, there has been, in these debates, the Conference of Leaders, the idea of being able to use twice as much time in relation to questions. So the normal would be 2 minutes and the double 4 minutes and Mr. Deputy spent 5 minutes and 35 seconds. I'm asking the ladies. Members to fulfil, as far as possible, this fair combination of the Conference of Leaders. To request clarification, Mr. Jorge Lacão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u144	Mr President, Prime Minister, the debate on this budget proposal, for what is already known and for what has been said inside and outside this Parliament, remains the same perplexity for us. And the first perplexity is that we cannot really understand, from a rational point of view, how the prejudice with which the PSD and CDS addressed their previous governance remains, completely encompassing them the critical capacity to assess the reality of the days that pass. This prejudice is easy to synthesize: PSD and CDS considered that the country, the Portuguese lived above its possibilities and, throughout its governance cycle, what they were committed to reducing Portuguese income, compromising labour income, cutting pensions and destructing protection rules in labor relations. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u145	In view of this, what PSD and CDS believed was that they could bring, they thought, greater competitiveness and greater economic growth to the country. Now, the balance sheet is entirely visible to all of us: they failed in competitiveness, failed in economic growth and what unfortunately they did not fail was to bring more unemployment, inequality and poverty to Portuguese society. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The answer to this State budget is a stone-paved response to demonstrate that who has this kind of prejudice can continue to live with it, but it cannot be considered as the holder of a humanist policy, because a humanist policy lives on the well-being of the Portuguese and what most affects the parties on the right is the progression in the well-being of the Portuguese. Mr Prime Minister, we have taken good note of the answers that have already been given to us today, in particular to the honourable Members. Mr. João Oliveira and Mr. José Luís Ferreira, regarding the work the Government continues to do in the repair of the devastation caused by the tragedy of the fires. We supported the Government's determination, in line with the essential conclusions of the Independent Technical Commission for Forest Fires, to launch a complex and demanding programme of responses for victims, for the recovery of companies, for the recovery of employment, for the development of the interior of the country, and, as he stressed, for the planning and rationalization of forests, as well as for civil protection and for the advanced fight against forest fires. We are therefore fully available to cooperate with the government, as a specialist, with the necessary steps to consolidate these measures. Nevertheless, let me ask you: will there be any possibility of the budgetary effort which should be made to compromise the balance of public finances and, therefore, the balance of the budgetary management which the Government has now presented to the Assembly of the Republic? Second question: there will be some possibility, there will be some risk of this financial effort, which is an effort of justice, power, if any, to compromise the quality envisaged in public services, in particular in the field of health, in the area of education, in the area of research, in the field of science,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u146	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u147	... in the area of those key factors of the development of the country? It is because of the need to reconcile the objectives that I would like Mr. Prime Minister to be able to deepen this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u148	To request clarification, Mr Jorge Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u149	Mr President, Prime Minister, you acknowledged in your speech that the problem of public investment and public services is the problem of debt. So let's talk about debt once again and always. The continued liquidity policy of the ECB has enabled the Government to manage public debt with virtuous results which are now reflected in the State budget by almost EUR 800 million in the reduction of the interest burden. But, essentially, this reduction does not result from factors that the country controls and we must prepare today the difficulties that we may have tomorrow, and therefore urgently find solutions that protect the Portuguese economy from the threat of debt. in the last few days, Portuguese public debt securities at 10 years were being traded on the secondary market with interest of around 2 %. Let's take this market rate. Considering a change in payment deadlines, if this rate on the debt securities held by the ECB and the European Commission were assumed, the effect of this restructuring would be more or less the equivalent of what was the result and the conclusions of the working group established between the Left Block and the Socialist Party on debt, i.e. a reduction in the weight of debt over the Product from 130 % to 90 %. The decision is political and, then, what prevents the European institutions today from recognizing a good solution and taking the Portuguese debt securities rate at the same rate as the market rate?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u150	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u151	This reflection is being made; it is only a lack of political will to open this debate and to defend in Europe the necessary changes. Following the presentation of the report of the working group established between the Left Block and the Socialist Party, the Government has responded by referring this issue to the German elections as a moment of European definition for which we should wait to be able to take an initiative at European level. All right, Prime Minister. The German elections have already passed and the question is: what is the timetable of the Portuguese Government to open the issue of debt at European level? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u152	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at the moment of the debate, I will ask you to go back a bit to the country and a little back. Mr. Prime Minister is the leader of a government whose image before the country and before the world is that of the failure of the state, that of the collapse of the state, especially in that of its first obligation: to protect the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u154	All right! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u155	The Prime Minister can now say, as he said recently, that his Government has underestimated the risks that the situation contained. The truth is not that he has underestimated; the truth is that his government has ignored all warnings. This was purely and simply your incompetence, and your incompetence cost very much and caused enormous damage to the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u156	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u157	Mr. Prime Minister, you can tell us here and now that this is not the Budget of the Holy Queen. It is true that it is not the Budget of the Holy Queen, but it was during the reign of her government that the country lost perhaps the greatest legacy of the husband of the Holy Queen, D. Dinis, who was the pinhal of Leiria, who was of the state and who burned everything! [[CDS-PP applause.]] What are the consequences of this? What are you getting out of there, Prime Minister? It is because you say "let's do this, let's do that...", but we look at the Budget, a Budget that is already post-Pedrogão, and we find that neither the word nor the realization of that same word is there. So what's going to be there and where will it be? Where are the consequences? Prime Minister: will you or will you not fully accept the compensation that is due to the families of the victims, the injured and the victims and all those who have suffered? Are you aware, or are you aware, of having in the Budget, or of having a discussion in the specialty, the necessary money for this same fact?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u158	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u159	Secondly, I do not realize that it rejects a mission unit with its own leadership, with autonomous leadership for the reconstruction that is not only of Pedrogan but of a huge area of the country that burned. I said no! I think it hurts! It is wrong not to accept positive tax discrimination in order to help recover those territories. I understand, it's time to amend, it's time to correct.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u160	I didn't say no!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u161	But that is what we understand in the answer you gave to the President of the CDS. So whether or not you accept positive discrimination for the interior to recover that same interior? On the other hand, Mr Prime Minister, will you or will you not finance — sufficiently — a national and professional fireman's body and create incentives for volunteering to help our firemen? Are you going to assume more skills with the Armed Forces, particularly in the fight against fires? Are we going to have, in addition to the work we already have of the Armed Forces, a special unit of self-fighting? Will the Air Force take on more responsibilities or not? And, in those responsibilities of the Air Force, are there also no more air vehicles, including more helicopters and more aircraft, particularly amphibious? And does that have a budget breakdown or not? If you don't have it yet, will you? Mr Prime Minister, these are concrete questions and positive questions to get your answer, because we need facts and we want to know where the consequences of the budget are. Mr. Prime Minister misses graphics. Today, you've seen graphics and I've got another one with me. You, in the Budget presented here today, the Budget for 2018, have entered fewer words for civil protection than in the 2012 Budget, the worst year of the troika.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u162	Mr President, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u163	At that time, it was more than EUR 250 million and now it is EUR 234 million and therefore you did not have any consequences. Finally, Mr President, I would like to ask the Prime Minister what he will do with the remaining areas of sovereignty, particularly with regard to security forces. Will you or will you not acknowledge that there is a need for effort, equipment and means for security forces? Will you or will you not recognize that there must be justice in progress, careers and retroactive payments? You either go or you don't recognize that there's no effect, that you should go in 800 a year...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u164	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u165	...and that the country doesn't have enough cops?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u166	Thank you very much, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u167	Or, on the contrary, if there is a serious security problem one day, will you tell us that the Portuguese defend themselves, that they do not wait for the police, as they told us in the past about the firefighters?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u168	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u169	I'm really going to finish, Mr. President. It's just that you fill your mouth with state. You have the state and rhetoric of the state, but they confuse what is public with what is your audience. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] You confuse the state with the corporate interests of management. In fact, the country needs less state, but the country needs better state and, above all, better state in the areas of sovereignty, and these are systematically forgotten by the government. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Carlos Abreu Amorim.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u170	Mr João Ramos has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, after the dramatic fires in June and October, it became absolutely clear that the CFP is right when it points to the problem of the Portuguese forest the lack of resources, financial and human resources, for the stimulation, monitoring and monitoring of forest policy. The forest problem was not lack of legislation, rules and procedures. What was missing was the financial resources for the implementation and monitoring of the implementation of the protection bands to urban infrastructures, housing and agglomerations; the lack of profitability to promote proper management; the lack of public money for the implementation of primary and secondary fuel management networks; the lack of human resources in public services for planning, monitoring and counseling of forest producers and rural communities; a forest extension service, which is fundamental to improving the resistance, resilience and profitability of the Portuguese forest. But this reinforcement is also necessary so that public forests can be properly managed. So, Prime Minister, when we are discussing the State budget for next year, it is necessary to know whether there will be budgetary coverage for all this that is necessary to do. The reality and different reports have shown that the country has knowledge, reflection and recommendation on forest policy. On the protection ranges of 10 m around the road network or 50 m around the dwellings, there is legislation, at least, since Regulation Decree No 55 / 81, reinforced measures in 2004 with the development of the National Forest Defense System against Fires, amended in 2006 and already in 2017. Decree-Law No 172 / 95 approved the Regulation of the Building Register, but legislation has already existed since 1982 at least. There was legislative production in 1984, in 1990, in 2008 and already in 2017. There was no lack of legislative framework; what was missing was the millions — 700, according to some, to carry out the task. With the Basics of Forestry Policy Act, published in 1996, the legal framework for the definition of forest management and management measures was created. This Act was amended in 2009 and already this year there have been legislative amendments affecting the subject matter. In 1999 the Portuguese Forest Sustainable Development Plan was adopted and the National Forest Strategy was adopted in 2006. This shows that legislation and rules have been in place for a long time, what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u172	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u173	It also shows that it is not the legislative amendments that solve the problems. Nothing can overcome the lack of action and decision! It is more than clear that what was missing was the resources. The CFP has already had the opportunity to ask Mr Finance Minister about financial values effectively affecting forest policy and prevention and what it means to increase over previous years, but did not get a satisfactory answer. The answers you have already given on the forest today, Prime Minister, do not provide any greater precision. What money is involved in the creation of forest slag teams and renovation of equipment? The creation of 100 teams per year will not be sufficient to reach the target of 500 in 2019. How much will be available for the reconstitution of the forest body, registered in Law No 76 / 2017, by proposal of the CFP? And for the strengthening and renewal of the human resources of the ICNF (Instituto da Conservação da Nature e delle Foresta), where 50 % of the workers are over 55 years old? What about the fuel management network and the National Controlled Fire Programme? What about the creation of evacuation plans and the concentration of the village population in the forest environment? And what means will it be for the preparation of the simplified register and for the completion of pilot projects? What about the programs for revitalization of municipalities affected by forest fires? What funds will be made available to combat desertification, support for the rural world and small and medium-sized agriculture? And for foresting with native species? I know, Prime Minister, that the Budget is not always organized to respond simply to the questions I put, but the need for answers and scrutiny in the field of forest require a budget map that is a true budget for the forest. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u174	It is Mr. Prime Minister's turn to answer. Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are basically two blocks of questions and I will answer them together. Let us begin with the caricature description of what it was and what the Portuguese economy is. Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, you have never heard me say that there was no need for exports and that what was needed was to bet on domestic consumption. What we have always said was something completely different, that is, that we had an alternative development model to yours. That is because your assumption was that wages and rights needed to be crushed in order to be competitive in exports and, at the cost of sacrificing wages and rights, sacrificed domestic demand with the recessive effect that they caused in the Portuguese economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] That we were right is proven because, contrary to what they said, the increase in national minimum wage, the unlocking of collective bargaining, the dynamising of social dialogue not only did not stop exports as they are increasing. And they're not just increasing because of tourism, they're increasing in all industrial sectors, and in all of them we're gaining market share. [[Congrats from PS MP João Galamba.]] Mr Jorge Costa, you are well aware of the scepticism I have always had with regard to the treatment of debt at European level and I believe that we all agree that it is impossible for it to have unilateral treatment. The German elections were the result. They have not yet allowed a government to be formed, but everything indicates that it will certainly not form a government closer to the debate on economic and monetary union reform than the previous government. I have always said that what I consider essential is to free up resources to do what is necessary. And to free resources we have two ways to do it. One, that is what we have done, that is, we have reduced debt, we have had stable macroeconomic management that has allowed us to reduce debt charges and, by improving our international rating, has allowed the interest rate to have such a positive development that it has achieved here, from now round the 2 % when it was still a long time ago to exceed 4 %. It is for this trajectory that we must continue to anticipate the depreciation of the most expensive debt, which is the debt to the IMF ( International Monetary Fund ) in order to reduce the overall amount of debt weight in the Portuguese economy and continue to improve the financing conditions. That is a way of releasing resources. Then there is another way — and this is the European debate that I think it is possible and essential to focus our attention: we can improve the budgetary capacity in the euro area to finance the investments needed to achieve convergence, we can improve our productive potential, we can improve the qualification of our human resources and we can recover the historical delay we have. A common friend can tell you how, very recently, the President of the European Commission addressed the issue that was put to him in private forum on the subject of debt. This common friend will clarify-CL to you, I believe, the reason for my scepticism about this line of approach to what it is essential to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u176	If you want, we'll get out!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u177	We will therefore reduce debt charges, we will try to increase the resources available to make the necessary investments by continuing to restore income, improve the quality of public services, fight inequalities, because that is what, in time, will enable us to solve the square of the circle that we have to solve. A second block focuses on the issue of fires. I understand the obsession the right has to want to blame me for what I did 12 years ago.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u178	No, no. for what you've done now!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u179	I would like one day to be told what happened over these 12 years, because if what I did 12 years ago was so bad, even though I deserved the unanimous consensus of this House of the Republic, however, over these 12 years, it produced only the result of reduced terms of 200 000 ha to 70 000 ha of burning area on average per year. Mr President, as far as the causal link is concerned, I know that I do not respect myself, but at least respect myself and at least respect the proposal which he has put before us and which he has defended, that of the creation of the Independent Technical Commission. Or did you simply do so with a mental reservation, hoping that the Independent Technical Commission would conclude what you wanted rather than what scientific truth has allowed to conclude? [[P.S.'s applause.]] The truth, in comparison with the data, is that it is only possible to compare what is comparable and the budgets that presented were Budgets emulated by showing the payment of the debt of the company of the air media...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u180	That's a lie! That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u181	... because if you delete the funds allocated to the payment of the debt, you will verify that the 2018 Budget, as in 2017, is superior...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u182	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u183	Don't say it's a lie when I'm telling the truth, sir. And you have good reason not to say that, because you were the Secretary of State responsible for this matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u184	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u185	Take off this chart that referred to the payment of the debt of the airline company and will verify that there has been no cut. But I can tell you more: in 2017, there was no cut, no reduction, not even any refusal to strengthen the means to prevent and fight forest fires.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u186	You've outlived your time, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u187	I will now finish, Mr President. This is the reality...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u188	No, it's not!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u189	...and when you stop wanting to play political games and start wanting to do real politics to deal with the problem of forest and fires, count on me.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u190	And the questions, zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u191	For political debate don't count on me. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u192	Five more are registered. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u193	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I shall begin precisely by the political game to say that it is absolutely regrettable and even regretting this strategy that the right is using, which is the appeal to short memory and that people completely forget what they have done, especially in the last four years. It is because you hear Mrs Assumption Cristos speaking as if suddenly she discovered the gunpowder, as if suddenly she discovered the need for territorial cohesion when the government that Mrs Asunción Cristos was part of — the PSD / CDS — closed up a multiplicity of public services within the country... Don't say you don't remember, Mrs Deputies. He closed the railway lines, which demobilized the potential of the country's interior. There was even a plan called 'Transport Strategy', which was politically reasonable to call 'transport closure plan' — imagine why! ... And, as Mr. Prime Minister here has already recalled, he revoked the benefits of the companies that settled in the country. Do you think you have any legitimacy to come here and talk about territorial cohesion? Oh, my God! It's just that, Mrs. Member, you can't pass a sponge about the past. But I repeat that you are quite right in the opposition, because when you are there, you seem to agree on the problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u194	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u195	The PSD says that this State budget, which does indeed—there is no doubt—more an evolution in the replacement of income, brings nothing, because, for the PSD, bringing something is not for people, for improving the quality of life of people. For the PSD, « bring something» is to do what the PSD did when it was in government, i.e. as soon as it found some strike, what it did immediately was to eliminate the extraordinary contribution to the banking sector, to dictate the almost immediate end of the extraordinary contribution to the energy sector, to lower the IRC for large companies, but to maintain the brutal increase in taxes for the generality of Portuguese, to continue the freezing of progression in careers, to continue the cuts in wages, to continue the cutting of pensions. It is clear from this perspective that this State budget does not bring anything that the PSD would pursue if it were government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u196	But I am glad that he is, because otherwise he would obviously not have any support from the Green Party. Mr Prime Minister, we are working, indeed, to continue the replacement of income, the improvement of the quality of life of Portuguese families, but we must also have strategic objectives which, in the perspective of the Greens, are important, one of which is related to the mitigation of climate change and also to the mobility of citizens and, in this way, to improve air quality, for example, in large urban centres, but not only. in this sense, it is essential to stimulate the use of collective transport. Mr. Prime Minister may remember how the Greens, in a manner vehemently, in the previous State budget, sought the replacement of the pass sub23. It's done! Mr. Prime Minister, we also battled at the time for the replacement of pass 4 /NP 18. The Government of the Socialist Party did not accept this measure in the previous State budget. Now, we want to fight in this State budget so that this measure can be implemented. It was not in one year, it must be in the other, because it is essential to get used to our young people and promote conditions so that our young people can use collective transport. And, in fact, the price of the social pass can be an incentive to use it, to promote such use. in the specialty, we will present this proposal and I would like to know whether the government is open to consider this year, finally, the replacement of pass 4 /NP 18. [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u197	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u198	Even to finish, there is another fundamental question: we have, in fact, to restore the body of forest guards, we have to increase the body of forest sapphires, but there is another body that cannot be forgotten, which is that of nature's watchers. We worked this year to open the competition for 20 more vigilantes and then for 30 more nature watchers. Mr. Prime Minister, the appeal the Greens make is that we will not stop next year. We have to open a new competition next year for at least 20 to 30 nature watchers,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u199	Mrs. Deputy, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u200	... in order not to stop strengthening a body that is fundamental to the priority areas that Mr. Prime Minister here has focused on nature conservation. It is essential not to stop a gradual path to achieve what the country really needs. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u201	I would like to thank you for your compliance, but it is no tolerance, because it cuts off the time available from your parliamentary group for tomorrow's session. You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs. Angela Guerra.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u202	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, the Government says that the State budget for next year increases the expenditure of the Health Programme by EUR 239 million. Although this is a mere 2, 4 % increase, if we discount the inflation for 2018, which is 1, 4 %, we conclude that the actual increase in the Health Programme will be less than EUR 80 million. On the other hand, State transfers to the National Health Service ( SNS ) are reduced by 0, 6 % next year compared to 2017, with less than EUR 51 million. But if this reduction in funding for the health sector is very serious for the Portuguese, it does not concern their extreme-left comrades, who should, for the third consecutive year, approve another Budget which degrades the health care provided to people. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u203	Mr Prime Minister, SNS'debt to suppliers currently exceeds EUR 2000 million. Only the debt of SNS hospitals is EUR 961 million, growing at a rate of almost EUR 60 million per month, i.e. EUR 2 million per day. Repeat : EUR 60 million per month, EUR 2 million per day. The debt of the Ministry of Health to firefighters in non-emergency transport of patients is already over EUR 25 million, but this does not concern the Minister of Health, because we have already urged him many times on the subject and he responds that we cannot look at the policy of 'cases and homes'. Do you really understand that this question does not question the operation of firefighters? Oh, my God! This brutal increase in the debt to suppliers and service providers is also accompanied by delays in payments to the social and conventional sector. For there to be no mistake, Prime Minister: all these SNS debts are increasing overwhelmingly and it is the provision of health care to patients who are being questioned, through your mistaken investment and captivating options. I hope, Prime Minister, that your answer will not be that the Government has entered an appropriation into the Ministry of Finance to ensure the sustainability of the SNS, because we all know that the little money made available will not arrive to pay the debt that you have already accumulated. I ask you therefore if you can ensure that this year and next the debt of the SNS will fall to the 2015 levels. Another question, Prime Minister : the former Government has made EUR 5 million available for the expansion of the IPO ( Portuguese Institute of Oncology ) in Lisbon. It happens that over the past two years, the Minister for Finance continues to block the said word, even though the resources already exist and the invitation to tender is being made. Everything is suspended, because of you, that do not give answers and catch words. This situation of the IPO is therefore proof of the current inefficiencies of the Minister of Health. And what matters to us, Prime Minister, is not so much the war of chairs within your government, which matters to us are the more than 1200 people with cancer waiting for surgery that does not arrive. The leaders of this hospital have already come to confess their despair, and the qualifier is not mine, Prime Minister. That is why I ask you when Mr. Prime Minister does his duty to put the lives of the patients ahead of his budgetary options. It was really important! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u204	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Lara Martinho.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u205	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, the proposal for a State Budget that we are discussing today in general is characterized by the rigor and continuity of courage, policies and results that have been achieved by the Socialist Executive over the past two years and which have led to a better life for all Portuguese people. A Budget that is, above all, focused on deepening justice and reducing inequalities, a Budget that pursues the recovery of income, along with the rigor and balance of public accounts, this path that allowed the exit of the procedure due to excessive deficit and the rise of the country's rating. We know that this is not the right-wing budget, but this is the way we decided to follow: a budget that can achieve the goals without sacrificing the income of families and the competitiveness of businesses. That is why it is a way of hope and a future that the Portuguese also want. But, Prime Minister, for us, this is not only in general a positive budget for the country, it is also a very positive budget, a fair budget for the Azores and Madeira, with a well-defined strategy, solidarity, coherent, constructive and reconciling with autonomy. This is a fair and reconciling budget, when it fully fulfils what is defined in the Regional Finance Act, in terms of money to be transferred to the autonomous regions ; fair and solidarity, when it shares public service obligations in inter-rail air transport — a claim that for the first time is realized; fair and consistent, when it eliminates discrimination in access to medical care provided on the continent, reaffirming the principle of reciprocity and complementarity between the National Health Service and the Regional Health Service ; fair and constructive, when it bets on strategic development projects in the regions such as the International Atlantic Research Centre, the installation of meteorological radars, the construction of the prison of Ponta Delgada and the educational protection centre of the Azores or the rehabilitation of the Horta Support Chain ; fair and oriented towards the future, when strengthened by 6, 5 %, the funds to be transferred to the region for employment and vocational training policy. We know that many challenges still persist, we know that there are still issues within this budget that can and should be improved, and we will continue to work for that to happen. But, Prime Minister, in this budget, we have not been expressly mirrored, as was the previous State budget, either the commitment to implement the plan for the economic revitalization of the Third Island, or support for the construction of the new Madeira hospital. I know that this government does what it commits to, but, Prime Minister, to rest the most unbelieving, those who still think that this government governs by the bottleneck of the past, I would like you to reaffirm those commitments.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u206	Mr Moisés Ferreira has the floor now, too, to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u207	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, public services. We have already heard Mr Prime Minister say that he aims to develop, invest and deepen public services in the future. It is a path that the Left Block defends, it is a path in which it can count on the Left Block, certainly, but it is a path that needs more investment and, above all, it needs to be made decavation of funds. The problem is that capitulations, in fact, have existed in public services. [[Ah!]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u208	in the Directorate-General for Health, for example in 2017, 21 % of its budget was captivated. at INEM ( Instituto Nacional de Emergência Médica ), in 2016, were almost 13 million euros, and in 2017, it deepened. SICAD ( Intervention Service in Addictions and Dependencies ), in 2017, had seizures in the order of 2 million euros, and it is not the Left Block that says so, are the reports and business plans of these bodies. For this reason, what we want is that the State Budget for 2018 effectively bets on public services, effectively bets on health, which implies disabling these health organizations. It can be said that the State Budget proposal for 2018 states that the SNS has no capitulations — it was already happening in previous years and this has not prevented the capitulations.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u209	Really? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u210	Ah! So you guys accept that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u211	What remains to be said in the proposal for the State Budget for 2018 is that not only will SNS not have captivations as any other body of the direct or indirect administration of the State that is fundamental to the pursuit of public policies in the field of health will not have captivations either.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u212	Believe in Santa Claus!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u213	This is a proposal which the Block on the Left will present, in the field of expertise, but now I would like to leave the question to Mr. Prime Minister : in the logic of deepening public services, does it consider or is not essential to decaptivate all health bodies in Portugal? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u214	The last request for clarification in this round lies with Mrs Cecilia Meireles. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u215	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, at first, if I heard him well, said that he presented his third budget here. When I heard him, I thought he was making one of those statements with which the speeches begin and that we all know, but although he informed Mr. Moses Ferreira, because when I heard Mr. Deputies, I imagined that he had arrived here now and that he had not realized that he had already approved two Budgets exactly with the captivations that now came to complain. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] Mr. Prime Minister, I now understood who was the addressee of V. Exa. But in fact, Mr Prime Minister, there is a trait that has marked these three budgets and that trait is that of the bold austerity, which is a kind of a new regime pact. [[The Prime Minister's laughs.]] It is a new regime pact that allows PS, PCP and Block to remain in power. The PS, in the government, pretends that it does not cut and the PCP and the Block, in opposition, pretend they do not see. [[BE's protests.]] in reality, everyone knows everything and everyone knows the examples, but by maintaining power and customers, everything is worth it! I will give you some examples of what has been valid: the expansion of the central operating block of the Lisbon IPO, with a sum of 5 million authorized in 2015, is waiting or, at least, was waiting for a signature from the Minister of Finance to move forward—so for two years—and so it will continue, unless it has already advanced. More: on primary health care, reform, construction of USF ( Family Health Unit), since the beginning of the year, zero, Prime Minister. Zero. Captivated! Coming out of the health issue, I can give you another example, even because Mr. Prime Minister talked about this. He said there were no captivating in vocational training. Mr Prime Minister, you have to say this to the metallurgical industry, which says that 28 000 workers are missing and that this year they have not opened new training classes because they are more than 2, 6 million euros caught precisely in vocational training,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u216	Ah, look!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u217	...and yet the Minister said this afternoon that there is not even any. Therefore, from this point of view, the strategy has been much and varied, and has involved PS, PCP and Block. First argumentative strategy: there were no captivations. It was a very healthy instrument of budgetary management and, as Mr. Prime Minister said, 30 % was completely normal. Well, UTAO ( Technical Unit for Budgetary Support) said that in 2016 the seizures reached an unprecedented amount in the budget history of Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u218	One billion!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u219	According to the Government's argument: there were no captivations in health. Once again, there is UTAO, who has this tendency to tell the truth, said no, that they were captivated EUR 79 million. And then the government, in despair, said it wasn't in the SNS. I ask you, Prime Minister : is the IPO of Lisbon not the SNS? Oh, my God! If not, what justifies these cuts? They're what? Are these drawer vetoes? They're all sorts of files to delay spending.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u220	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u221	But they're not cuts!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u222	Moreover, Mr Prime Minister : from the point of view of deferring expenditure, the files do not end up in captivity. The government has a speech that there is everything for everyone and that there is money for everything, but then, in practice, it makes choices that objectively sacrifice public services, sacrifice users and sacrifice patients, perhaps because they do not have unions that can defend them.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u223	You are getting worse and worse than your aversion to the unions!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u224	I mean, it's worth more or less everything. I will give you the example of health, because there is a detail in the Budget that has intrigued me a lot. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u225	What about the Culture Budget? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u226	For example, only this year the debts of EPE hospitals have increased EUR 417 million. Mr. Prime Minister, every month of this year, the EPE hospitals in Portugal have, on average, become more than 46 million than they should in the previous month. by the visas, the replacement of income, for Mr Prime Minister, does not cover the workers of the companies, who are left with these calotes. It's just that there's someone who doesn't get it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u227	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u228	I see in the State budget a framework under the heading « Budgetary effect of measures for the financial year of review of expenditure ». Where is there going to be less spending? Where are you going to cut? See who the champion is: health! One hundred and sixty-six million euros. I will not ask you about the extraordinary contribution of the medical devices, which seems to be here for a while, since, in fact, you have already given up on it, but, yes, because I confess that I did not, by my own fault, understand the measure « Strengthening budgetary monitoring and savings associated with debt payments » with a value of EUR 75 million. In other words, Mr. Prime Minister has accumulated more EUR 417 million in health calotes this year and instead of saying that he will pay what he must, he says no, that he will have a savings associated with the payment of EUR 75 million debts. Mr. Prime Minister, you're not thinking that savings associated with debt payments are simply not paying them and leaving bills for later on, are you not? That's not what you're saying. Mr. Prime Minister, saving is one thing, calote is another completely different. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u229	Don't pay salaries to public servants was also hot, it wasn't savings!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u230	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u231	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, do you know the best evidence that this is not an austerity budget? Do you know what it is? It is that this budget does not have its support! If it were the budget of austerity, I would have your support. [[PS's laughter and applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u232	What a level!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u233	As you know, I appreciate you and if there's anything I admire is your consistency. Such is not common, even to your entire bench, but it is a characteristic of yours. Therefore, I am sure that the honourable Member does not now defend, in the opposition, the opposite of what she was defending when she was part of the government...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u234	No, not at all!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u235	... and that he does not now defend the increase in expenditure, when he first defended the reduction in expenditure. That is why the honourable Member does not support this budget. There is a huge confusion between captivating, cutting and reducing expenditure. We have a strengthening of the health budget,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u236	Not spending!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u237	...as we have a strengthening of the education budget, as we have a strengthening of the general budget of the ministries. The captivating mechanism does not reduce spending on the past, it allows management of increased expenditure on each budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u238	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u239	So what we're discussing is not if we're going to spend less than we spent last year, but before, how much more we're going to spend on what was spent in the past.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u240	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u241	The mechanism of capitulation is a mechanism of mere prudence, it is a mechanism that anyone who turns a Budget must have to ensure that the execution of the expenditure accompanies what is uncertain, which is the execution of the revenue. Therefore, capitulations are not effectively a mechanism for cutting expenditure, but of sound management of increased expenditure. [[CDS-PP laughter.]] They referred to the case of the IPO. This case is not a captivating case for the simple reason that it was not a expenditure entered in the 2017 Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u242	And why didn't you sign up? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u243	This is a expenditure which was planned to be carried out in 2018 and what was requested from the Ministry of Finance was not to deactivate an amount which was entered but, before, to allow an expected amount to be spent in 2018 in advance and which is, in fact, the budget against which you will vote. If your vote were majority in this House, what would happen was that in 2018 this expenditure would not be realized. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] As he speaks of the IPO, to avoid dealing with other cases, what we have today at this Institute is more than 12 % of doctors than we had in 2015, more 18 % of inmates than we had in 2015, more 6 % of nurses than we had in 2015,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u244	So what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u245	... plus 19 % diagnostic technicians than we had in 2015. And yes, there were expenses that lacked authorization from the Ministry of Finance, such as the acquisition of a linear accelerator, worth EUR 3, EUR 9 million, which was authorised by the Minister of Finance. What we are discussing is the implementation of the 2017 Budget rather than the anticipation of 2018 funds for 2017. Let's not get confused. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Angela Guerra, in the National Health Service we now have more consultations in hospitals,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u246	We heard that! Answer what I asked him!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u247	... more consultations in health centres,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u248	You're late!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u249	... more surgical interventions. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles and the Member of the PSD Ángela Guerra.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are committed to 25 family health units per year. as we have already done 36, of the 50 that we must conclude by the end of this year, we have created more than 700 continuous care beds...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u250	Shut up!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u251	... and we are moving forward with the hospitals that had remained in the 'freeze' of time, yes, of the budgets of austerity.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u252	Go talk to the IPSS!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u253	Mr. Moisés Ferreira, it is appropriate not to confuse what are captivations that do not cover the National Health Service with captivations that cover services of the Ministry of Health but that are not components of the National Health Service. For example, captives in INEM will end, because INEM is an operational service that should not be subject to captivating.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u254	What about the firefighters? Oh, my God! Isn't it necessary for firefighters? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u255	Mrs Lara Martinho, I wanted to say that, according to the commitment herein assumed, the working group to assess the public interest of the construction of the Funchal hospital is constituted, is working...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u256	God knows!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u257	... and we will comply with what has been established, even though this project has been plunged by the technical committee set up in the Ministry of Finance, in the time of the previous government, which led to the public utility of the completion of the new Funchal hospital, as well as we will also comply with the agreement with the Regional Azores Government for the plan of revitalization of the Third Island.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u258	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u259	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, as regards the forest, we will respond with the implementation of the measures already announced. We will have — and we will also take advantage of responding to Mr João Ramos — a further 100 new teams of forest slags, which means 500 more forest slags; we will still have 50 new forest watchers this year, 20 that are already hired and 30 and will be open competition, which will be published tomorrow in Diário da República, for more than 30 ; and, during 2018, we will have a reinforcement in the vigilantes, in the safadores, in the elements of the Republican National Guard at the service of the GIPS ( Protection and Relief Intervention Group) for the first intervention in the fight against forest fires. But we're gonna do more than this. More than continuing to invest in strengthening the means of combat, we will, above all, strengthen the means of prevention — either in surveillance, in the structural resistance of the forest, or in the protection bands to the villages, either in the lanes that flank the roads or are under the high-voltage networks — and also the investment that is necessary in the continuation of the primary forest protection network, where of the 7000 km, only 3300 are completed, knowing that for the year we have to recover 2000 of the 3300 that are built and do at least 500 more to be able, in four years, to make the 2000 km that are necessary to complete the primary forest protection network. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u260	It was only a shame not to answer the question of the pass.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u261	I am replying next, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u262	We moved on to the last round of requests for clarification to Mr. Prime Minister. There are four of you. Members who will ask for clarification, the first of which is Mrs Paula Santos. You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u263	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, there is a shortage of workers in health centres, hospitals, schools, social security, museums; there are lack of judicial officials, prison guards, nature watchers and forest diggers; there are no workers in public enterprises; there are lack of security forces and services. We know that this reality results from the political options of successive governments, in particular the PSD/CDS government, which continued the thesis of the minimum state and still today are reflected in the day-to-day of many public services in the territory. But the failure to take effective measures to hire the workers in need calls into question the proximity, leading to the disruption, delay and degradation of the provision of public services. What is required of the Government is that it intervene to meet existing needs and contract workers in need. The steps taken so far have been shy. We are aware that, in the face of the heavy legacy of PSD and CDS, the situation is not resolved overnight, but we cannot continue to push forward what should already be done. Mr. Prime Minister, the lack of health professionals affects the accessibility and quality of health care; there are high waiting times for consultations, examinations, treatments and surgeries; the workers are tired; there is work overload; there are extraordinary hours done to ensure the regular functioning of the services and, in some places, the nurses and operational assistants continue a new shift after the work day, because they are not rendered. Without healthcare professionals, SNS loses response capacity, to the detriment of users. The lack of operational assistants in schools is so evident that the Government continues to promote the hiring of workers the part-time regime for three or four hours, contrary to the undertaking assumed to combat precariousness; it has already reached the value of more than 1400 jobs, only in these contracts; there are school groupings with a single psychologist to accompany more than 3000 students; there are no teachers and special education technicians. We defend the linkage of teachers at the end of three years, with full hours, regardless of the recruitment group; it is necessary to go further in this process, it is necessary to bind the 713 teachers who stayed outside the process carried out in 2017. There are delays in the deferral of pensions and the payment of social benefits, such as family allowance, because social security does not have enough workers to treat the processes with the necessary speed; in museums, there are not enough workers to ensure the security and surveillance and protection of the estate; there are delays in judicial proceedings due to the lack of judicial officials. Mr. Prime Minister, the hiring of workers is being blocked because it awaits the authorization of the government or because the government does not authorize it in full or in part. The administration of EMEF ( Railway Equipment Maintenance Company) requested authorization to hire 208 workers in December 2015. The hiring of 124 workers was authorised, while the other requested workers were still under consideration. In January this year, the administration of the Lisbon Metropolitan requested authorization to make urgent admissions, 22 for office areas and 80 for train and station crews, having entered the service only 10 drivers and 30 workers for the stations. Mr. Prime Minister, the lack of workers in public services is very serious. The solution doesn't go there with rhetoric! A planned intervention is needed to resolve the shortage of workers with which public services are faced. Strengthening the recruitment of workers required does not take account of the measures contained in the State Budget Bill for 2018. The proposal is insufficient and does not meet the needs. Exceptional and extraordinary measures are required to recruit workers and the procedures may not be left pending authorisation. Public services — public school, National Health Service, social security, heritage protection, access to justice, forest defence, public transport — workers to ensure quality and effectiveness must be provided. That is why I ask you, Prime Minister: will the Government adopt exceptional and extraordinary measures for the hiring of workers that are necessary today in the Public Administration, ensuring their effective rights and public ties? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u264	To request clarification, Mr Amadeu Alberbergaria has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u265	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, the schools have been confronted with a lack of employees for two years, with work to be done, with a lack of money and with a Minister of Education who systematically deceives them. As Minister Tiago Brandão Rodrigues is the champion of the lack of answer to the questions of the honourable Members, it is with Mr Prime Minister that we have to debate in the expectation that we can overcome the political irrelevance in which the Minister of Education has placed himself. Mr. Prime Minister, we are faced with an education budget that represents a deliberate attempt to deceive schools. They want to deceive schools when they present as an investment what is a cut. This budget represents a cut of 2, 9 % for the area of education — it is less EUR 183 million. They want to deceive schools when they claim that they reinforce investment and what we verify is a cut of 9, 6 % in the budget compared to 2017. They want to deceive schools when they say they hire more teachers, more technicians, more employees and what we verify is that the amount budgeted for staff expenditure for 2018 is below the observed value either in the 2016 State General Account, or in the 2017 budget estimate. This budget does not bring good news to schools, but it is a good reflection of the policy of deception that this Minister of Education does. This minister deceives the schools: he cheated when he took up, in May of this year, that, with the review of the portfolio of the ratios, the missing officials would be placed at the beginning of the school year—they were not; he cheated when he tracked the teachers in the contests—in the internal mobility contest he dubbed the full hours, he made a mistake, a gross error, admitted it, but did not correct him or so-not apologize; he cheated when he claims to reduce the number of students by class, but actually developed a proposal that has zero impact at national level. Mr. Prime Minister, with the schools without money, how it justifies the increase — yes, an increase here! — of 7, 2 % of the expenditure of the office of Minister Tiago Brandão Rodrigues? How is it possible that, on travel alone, costs are doubled? The Ministry of Finance assumes that it is necessary to hire 3379 employees for schools, but the Ministry of Education speaks in 1500. What are we staying on? How can you say that more human resources will be contracted if you expect a cut of 297 million in staff spending? Mr. Prime Minister, of both misleading schools is he himself, the Minister of Education, a deception of this government. But it is a mistake that is paid today by the schools and tomorrow by the students. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u266	You now have the floor to ask for clarification, Mr Jorge Campos.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u267	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, the Bloc believes that the budget of culture continues to maintain residual values. This means that the repeated promise to pay better attention to an area considered vital remains postponed. It is true that the figures point to slight growth, but if we look carefully, we see that this increase does not accompany inflation or GDP growth. The budget for culture is about EUR 470 million. of this amount, 200 million are for social communication, funded almost entirely by the contribution to the audiovisual. For the nuclear sector of culture there are therefore just over EUR 200 million, i.e. 0, 1 % of GDP. It adds, however, that of these 200 million, almost 100 million come from the rate of cinema and other own revenue, which means that investment in culture does not go far beyond 100 million euros, a quarter of the value announced and therefore 0, 05 % of GDP. Mr Prime Minister, I have heard many times that development needs to be based on knowledge and qualification. We couldn't agree more. Clearly, it is evidence, but words are not enough. A country that does not invest in culture is at risk of exacerbating the lack of knowledge and qualification. Knowing that the right would not do better... [[But he did!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u268	... does not relieve the responsibilities of the Government. I will give you an example, Mr Prime Minister: the proposal for a State Budget makes verification and marks the growth of revenue in museums and monuments, but it seems not to be taken into account that more visitors also involve more responsibilities and, of course, more investment in maintaining and preserving heritage. in this sense, I must tell you, Prime Minister, that the Left Block does not revise this Budget in the area of culture. [[So you're going to vote against it?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u269	We will therefore do everything in our specialty to introduce the amendments that we believe can somehow improve it. Cultural agents have rightly demanded budgets that respect a basic principle: culture above zero! We follow this concern and we would like to know whether Mr. Prime Minister is accompanying us. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u270	To make the last request for clarification of this round, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u271	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, public investment is pointed out by the CFP, many years ago, as a central problem of the country's economic policy and development. Portugal needs, like bread for the mouth, a certain and effective bet on public investment that dynamizes private investment and employment growth and that responds to the needs of the country, the modernization of its public infrastructure and services, from the outset to halt and reverse its degradation, public investment that is needed for the recovery and modernization of schools, hospitals, health centres, facilities and equipment of the forces and security services, of infrastructures supporting the productive sectors. We have recently brought to this debate the serious problem of the lack of staff in these companies and in these public services. The situation of public transport and its material means is on the other side of the same currency: ships which will have their maintenance postponed successively, those which are slaughtered and not replaced, the carriages which are weighed, the workshops which do not give for orders. This is the concrete translation of the horrendous shortcomings in the investment we are talking about. We already know that the starting point was the national disaster policy of the PSD Government / CDS, in which only from 2011 to 2013 the investment fell 38.7 %. We also know that with the forecasts of this 2018 budget, it is said that public investment will increase by 40 % and reach more than EUR 4, 5 billion, but the first problem that arises there is that of the effective realization of this perspective, taking into account the difference we have seen between the budgeted and executed. One year ago, by this time, the estimated public investment in the current year, 2016, was more than EUR 3400 million, but the numbers actually recorded this year were 20 % below. In any case, even if this problem does not happen this year, the problem remains the real dimension of this investment now envisaged in this State budget. As soon as the national funding component of this investment remains much less than it is necessary to mobilise, with Community funds representing 70 % of public investment. This is indeed EUR 4500 million in 2018, so we will be at a level of public investment that is below what was recorded in 1996, and the needs and problems are now more serious and, in fact, worsening from month to month. In January this year, in view of the situation at the Lisbon Metropolitan, the Minister of the Environment informed that the problems would be overcome in May or June this year. at that time, of the 111 compositions of the metro, 23 units were immobilized. currently, there are 30 units stopped in repair workshops. We're going to have the Web Summit for the week in Lisbon and a quarter of the subway fleet is inoperative. This means, once again, an unbearable situation for the populations and for the workers to add to what has already happened in Transtejo and Soflusa, CP, Alentejo or West, or suburbs, among many other cases. Mr. Prime Minister, none of this happens one day to the other and none of this was unpredictable. All of this requires an urgent response and substantial strengthening of effective public investment. The question we are asking is whether this response continues to be postponed on behalf of a policy of restrictions and constraints, primary surpluses and 1% of the deficit, proclaimed in submission to the dictates of the budgetary treaty and the Stability Pact. The priority must be to address the needs of the people and the country and not these ties that continue to condition our development. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u272	To respond to these four requests for clarification, you have the floor of Mr Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u273	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by replying to the honourable Members. Mr Paula Santos and Mr Bruno Dias. It is clear that the whole budget year is faced with a reality, which is that needs are unlimited and resources are limited. It is therefore a matter of political choice that we make about the allocation of resources. With regard to transport, we believe that transport is absolutely fundamental, so we have been creating conditions to strengthen investment, as was done this year in Soflusa and Transtejo, as is being done with metropolitans and how it is also being done with STCPs, either with Carris, through the decentralization that has been made for the municipalities covered. The question is that the strengthening of investment is insufficient to address the investment deficit that has been accumulated. For four years, the priority of transport policy was not to transport people, it was to produce EBIDTA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and depreciation) to improve the financial ratios. Now, a transport company must obviously be balanced and have the best EBITDA possible, but it cannot forget what is its fundamental function, which is to transport people and do so with quality. So at this point, we have already launched the works of the green metro line, which already allows it to work with six wagons and not with four, we are doing the works that will allow the security systems to improve the commercial speed of the transport systems, and we have opened competition for the hiring of new drivers to the metro, manifest shortcomings that the system had. of the same step — and, if you do not mind, I also respond to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia — we have supported a policy to extend accessibility to public transport. That is why we have already introduced the pass sub23, we have extended it to the whole country and we are, Mrs Deputy, available to consider the replacement of the pass 4 /NP 18. What I said about the transport sector also applies to the public administration as a whole. The Public Administration has been suffocated for years without hiring new staff. We therefore have many shortcomings and, more than shortcomings, we have in many sectors, such as, for example, in universities, a great demographic imbalance which will be very difficult to overcome and which will require years and years of effort to rest. But at the same time, we must complete the tables and, at the same time, not disregard the rights of the workers who are in the picture today. If we hadn't returned the salaries and schedules in the public service, if we hadn't created these conditions, we might have more resources to hire more people, but it would be unfair, immoral, illegal and unconstitutional to have done so. Therefore, it was with justice that we repudiated the salaries, it was with justice that we reject the schedules and, at the same time, we are fighting precariousness, defrosting careers and also admitting new people into public service. In liquid terms, and only to give the example of the National Health Service: today we have 5800 more professionals in the National Health Service than we had at the beginning of this legislation, among doctors, nurses, diagnostic technicians and assistants. The honourable Member says to me: "But it is not enough yet! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Of course it is not yet enough, if we could leave, but we cannot leave because we have to continue the course we started, which is a trajectory that, at the same time, without being at the expense of the rights of public service workers, intends to restore the necessary levels of production in all public services. As a result, we have been able to increase the number of surgical interventions, increase the number of hospital consultations and family health units. But at the same time as we do this, we cannot sacrifice investment, because we are committed to opening 25 family health units per year and 700 new care beds per year. We are committed to moving forward with the construction of the hospital of Seixal, of the Eastern Hospital of Lisbon, of the hospital of Alentejo. We are studying, with the Regional Government of Madeira, the State's participation in the construction of the Funchal hospital. We have a protocol with the Sintra City Hall, which we have signed for the construction of the new Sintra hospital. These are the commitments that we have made and that we have to fulfil. In each budget year, we must make every effort to combine all needs so as to allocate the resources we have to satisfy them as best we can. Mr. Amadeu Soares Albergería is wrong. First, because the Minister of Education did not want to deceive anyone, nor does he deceive anyone, nor are we here to deceive anyone. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u274	Mr President, I am now making you justice that you do not want to deceive us either, but not wanting to deceive us, you are wrong. Why?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u275	Can you repeat that?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u276	Sir, if you'll give me a little attention... Initial budget of the Ministry of Education for 2017 : EUR 6022 million. Proposal from the State Budget for 2018 for the budget of the Ministry of Education: EUR 6173 million. What does that mean? It means that it is more than EUR 150 million than it was in the State budget proposal for 2017, i.e. there is an increase of 2, 5 %. Therefore, when you say that the proposal for this State budget is reduced in relation to last year's budget proposal is wrong, as it increases, and it increases EUR 150 million. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u277	We already know whom Mr. Minister has learned: he has learned from you!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u278	You are wrong or you want to fool us when you compare two different things: the initial allocation we propose for next year with the one already executed this year. Now, this deception, as you know, follows a comparison that cannot be made, because, as every year happens, as Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque, who is at her side, can explain, the budget implemented by the Ministry of Education is always quite higher than the initial allocation of the Ministry of Education. last year, the initial appropriation was EUR 6 billion and the executed was EUR 6300 million, as this year, the executed will certainly be higher than the initially budgeted.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u279	It's the only ministry that does that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u280	If I wonder if this is the best budgetary technique, as Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque can explain to you, I also think it is not. It is the budgetary technique pursued, consecutively, over decades and that, consecutively, we have been reducing in its variation, so as to bring the initial allocation of the real budget of the Ministry of Education closer together.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u281	By 2017!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u282	Mr President, you are wrong, the money has not decreased from last year to this year; last year this year increases budget money. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Jorge Campos, I would like to accompany you from now on with the idea that the budget of the Ministry of Culture is insufficient for what the country needs to be the budget of this Ministry, and I will only not follow it in the vote on the speciality because, not being a Member, I cannot vote. [[Laughing.]] But in spite of everything, I would like to leave some clear points. First of all, the increase in the allocation for the Ministry of Culture is not essentially in the part relating to social communication, where there is a change of 0, 6 %, but above all in the part relating to culture, where, in general revenue - and I am referring only to the general revenue - has an increase of 7, 4 %. in the total increase of 9, 9 million euros of the Ministry of Culture 1, 1 % is related to social communication and 8, 1 % is related to culture, and above all is the artistic creation that has a more significant increase of 24 % in the budget of DGArtes (Direction-General of the Arts), as I had the opportunity to point out here to support cultural creation. As there is also a significant strengthening with regard to the preservation of heritage, which is another fundamental pillar of culture policy. What I think is essential to define is a serious and sustainable multi-year growth trajectory of the Ministry of Culture's budget, so that it does not have any further interruptions and is approaching the goal of terms 1 % of GDP affecting culture. But this objective cannot be included exclusively in the State Budget, and there is a work that has been developed with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Culture, and in which I myself have been involved, for the construction of a satellite budget of culture, which includes, in addition to the budget included in the State Budget as general revenue of the Ministry of Culture, the budgets of the different agencies of the central administration and also the funds of the regional and local administration, which are very significant and give us the true picture of the amount invested in culture. But I will follow you, Mr President, by not being satisfied. I would like to go further and I am sure that if we continue this course we will be going even further next year than the increase of 7, 4 % which is already enshrined in this State budget. To have a concept of comparison, because obviously the basis of comparison is completely different, I will say that we have an increase of 2, 4 % in health, 2, 5 % in education and 7, 4 % in culture. Is it part of infinitely inferior bases? Yes, but the comparison with the effort that is being made shows that, in culture, there is an effort that seeks to meet the need of the country, where we still have much to do, because we are still much less than what, indeed, the country would need to invest in culture. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u283	The Bureau did not want to interrupt Mr. Prime Minister, so I now report that the excessive time used by today's grid will be discounted on the grid tomorrow. With these answers, Mr Prime Minister ends the stage of requests for clarification. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to move on to the stage of the interventions, first of all to the Democratic Social Party. Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u284	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would like to begin by making a positive reference to this proposal for a State Budget. It is already the third tabled by this majority and, once again, the restructuring of public debt is not planned. Good. I believe that it will also not be part of the State budget proposal for 2019. More: I believe that both the Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block will no longer put such intention in their election programs in 2019. After adopting four budgets without this condition, they could hardly be taken seriously if they persisted in the promise. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] Unfortunately, we could not find other positive points to show. The proposal of this majority for the State Budget for 2018 fails in all areas of structural intervention and to ensure a sustained growth trajectory. The current moment is favourable to fiscal consolidation, since after years of sacrifices imposed by the deep crisis in which the country has been immersed and by external intervention, and when fundamental structural reforms have been carried out, the economy is growing at a higher rate than we have seen in recent years, benefiting from a favourable external environment. The explicable budgetary margin for these factors has been broadened by the decisions of the Government and the majority to increase, in all budgets, various taxes and charges, alongside the creation of new ones, increasing the structural revenue, which is expected, in accordance with the State budget report for 2018, which continues next year. This means that the resources that the State appropriates are increasingly weighing what worries the PSD, and with what we cannot agree, begins with this precisely increasing the weight of the State in the economy, when all the data show that our growth is the basis of our business fabric, with national or foreign capitals. The more the State absorbs from the wealth created, the greater the difficulties experienced by companies and the less the investment effort, the less the creation of wealth and employment and the sooner, the more negative the impact these decisions will have on economic growth. The proposal of the State Budget for 2018 disregards companies and their decisive role in the future of the country. Criticism is widespread by all business associations and most analysts, being the most common criticism that this State budget has nothing for companies. Unfortunately, judging by the claims of the Communist Party and the Left Block, partners of the Government, which did not deny them, there will indeed be something for the companies in this State budget, but it will be the increase in the taxes they bear. [[All right!]] [[Protests from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u285	The budgetary policy options are, of course, a prerogative of the Government and of the parties that support the majority in Parliament, but the PSD believes that the path that is being pursued is wrong because the costs of this option will be borne in time by the Portuguese. The structural weaknesses of the Portuguese economy are far from being overcome and, in a globalized and increasingly competitive world, only responsible choices can ensure effective protection against future crises.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u286	The devil is always behind the door!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u287	When a country is as strongly conditioned as Portugal was between 2011 and 2014, the choices for political decision makers are very limited. It is when the worst is overcome and the degrees of freedom once again exist that the rulers are required to be responsible for not wasting opportunities, so much so that the memory of the costs that the wrong choices of the past have imposed upon us cannot fail to be preserved and invoked. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u288	You left the country on the verge of a procedure of sanctions for budgetary failure!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u289	And we must also remember who was responsible for the wrong choices, especially when many of these faces are again sitting on the government bench today. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u290	The PSD does not disagree with the replacement of the income affected during the adjustment process, as evidenced by the fact that this replacement was still initiated by the previous Government. The PSD also does not disagree with the replacement of normal public administration careers for too long which has been frozen, which constitutes an injustice for public officials,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u291	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u292	... and so it was part of the Government Program submitted by Executive PSD / CDS out of the 2015 legislative elections. The PSD also does not oppose the application of the rules for updating pensions under the Basic Social Security Act.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u293	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u294	It is important to establish these previous points because, despite the evidence, the answer to our legitimate proposals and criticisms is systematically made with meaningless accusations, which prevent the serious and constructive discussion that matters of this relevance should deserve. [[PSD applause.]] in the proposal of State Budget for 2018 there is no vision of the future for the country nor the ambition necessary to place the development of Portugal in a higher level. A small and open economy like ours cannot fail to have any ambition to increase the weight of exports in national wealth and since the first hour this majority has dropped that design. Revenue and expenditure are increased, knowing that the first is very sensitive to the economic cycle and that the second has enormous rigidity, especially because more than two thirds of public expenditure corresponds to wages and pensions, but the government continues to distribute without ensuring conditions for the creation of wealth.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u295	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u296	The proposal for a State Budget for 2018 is the third of this majority and already corresponds to the second part of its mandate. It is clear that structural reforms, the absence of which we have criticised from the outset, will not happen even in the role, the more in practice. It should also be noted that, as an object of analysis, this proposal for a State Budget is, of course, damaged by the experience of the budgets which preceded it, insofar as the implementation was too far from the proposal submitted and approved. Criticising or praising the intentions of the Government cannot fail to take account of this learning and I believe that not even the Communist Party and the Left Block can continue to pretend that they were surprised. [[Well, well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u297	Although the Government can say that it has always fulfilled the budgetary results it proposed, it is important to bear in mind that the comparison between the budgeted and the implementation of the budget leaves much to be desired. [[Mr. P. João Galamba's laughs.]] The achievement of the targets is only being achieved because the part of the State budget induced by the economic activity and policy of the European Central Bank ( ECB ) generates positive surprises in several headings: more tax revenue, more social contributions, less unemployment benefits and less interest. Still, with so many positive surprises, the government needs to halt the evolution of public investment in order to achieve the goals. It is noted that revising the actual economic growth of 2017 from 1, 8 % to at least 2, 5 % and reviewing the budget deficit from 1, 6 % to 1, 4 % hides something that the Government should explain to the Portuguese. The aim is to conceal the deficit that is actually expected to announce it as good news? Or does it mean that the margin provided by higher economic growth will be used at more expense? If so, it is important to know where, what options the budget implementation will have this year and to what extent it corresponds to the State budget which has been approved in Parliament. Public investment promises for 2018, which include some crucial and urgent projects for the country, may not go through this. This was the case in 2016, when public investment was one of the main variables of the budget adjustment so that it would be possible to achieve the deficit target, and it will also be so in 2017, since the State Budget Report for 2018 lowers the forecast in the State Budget for 2017.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u298	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u299	Even if we believe that, next year, to vary, the government executes what it commits to Parliament and citizens, we will have a level of public investment that is only marginally superior to what was done in 2015. The climate of fiscal instability persists. Between announcements and threats, whether they come true or not, the trajectory is clear: indirect taxes increase, harming the poorest, and companies become increasingly overbureautyed, both in taxation and in bureaucracy. The increase in tax burden for many self-employed workers,... [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] ... both in sectors fundamental to competitiveness, such as the digital economy or agriculture, only to give two examples, is unfair and incomprehensible in a State budget that says to increase income. For a country that needs so much private investment and to stimulate competitiveness, this is the worst strategy possible. In addition, there is not a single reference to savings in the entire State budget proposal. The levels of Portuguese savings are at least historical and compare very badly with our European partners. A country that does not save is doomed to rely on others to finance investment, which makes confidence and predictability even more decisive. The PSD argues that savings need to be stimulated and that the State budget for 2018 should take steps in this direction. Although the nominal targets of the deficit are confirmed for 2017 and 2018, the structural adjustment does not comply with European rules.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u300	As in 2014 and 2015!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u301	Apart from the non-irrelevant issue of the failure to fulfil a commitment freely made by the country, right here in this Parliament, which has approved the budgetary treaty, the Government and the majority should be the first to defend the importance of this indicator. Despite its complex methodology and the controversy that it generated, the concept itself is simple and its usefulness is inevitable: it is intended to measure the effort effectively made in the consolidation of public accounts in different phases of the economic cycle. [[Protests by PS MP João Galamba.]] If the economy is growing, this would be the time to contain rigid or structural expenditure, or the one whose evolution depends less on us, such as the interest of public debt, so that, when there is a recession and the expenditure increases simultaneously with the fall of revenue, the adjustment is less painful than in the past, so that, when the ECB returns to a normal monetary policy, we are prepared and we can actually reduce our debt, which is among the highest in the world. European rules reflect learning with the mistakes of the past, but the choices of the government and the majority reveal their inability to learn. Finally, I refer to social security. The PSD is a party with deep roots in social concern, as was well demonstrated by the policies followed during the adjustment process, which resulted in a reduction in inequality. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS laughter and government members.]] We therefore advocate that there is a set of measures to be implemented, in particular to increase the transparency of the system and facilitate its scrutiny by the citizens. We must not fail to mention the failure of the Government to say that social security is of such good health that there will be no need for transfers from the State budget next year. This, when, in 2017, a new tax was created on the real estate sector, whose revenue was allocated to social security,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u302	They are for the Financial Stabilisation Fund of Social Security, they are not to pay current expenditure!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u303	... and from 2018 onwards, provision is made for the provision of part of the IRC revenue ( income tax for the public ). This is indeed transfers from the State budget to social security, only less transparent. [[PSD applause.]] As long as the problem is not faced, we will always have to put more money there, which will never be enough. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government is presenting this budget proposal as the success of the reconciliation between the consolidation of public accounts and the increase in income. It is true that, in this proposal for a State Budget, a consolidation strategy is visible, but unfortunately, it is a strategy for consolidating power in the present and not an economic consolidation strategy for the future. [[PSD applause.]] It is not surprising, but it is regrettable that those who have the responsibility to govern deliberately waste the opportunity to ensure a more sustainable future for all. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u304	Madam Member, the Bureau shall record the registration of three Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u305	I shall answer together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u306	Thus, for the first request for clarification, Mr Pedro Soares, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u307	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Firstly, I would like to note that Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque will again fail one more of her forecasts. The Left Block will not even give up to continue to raise its proposal for the restructuring of public debt, because this situation actually crushes our economy, poses enormous difficulties for our country and reduces our ability to deal with the problems.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u308	Look!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u309	So the Left Block will continue to raise the issue of public debt and the honourable Member will continue to be wrong. [[Congratulations from BE.]] It would be good if the PSD never forgot the famous phrase of the former Minister of Finance Victor Gaspar when he confirmed that his budget corresponded to a huge increase in taxes. It would be good to never forget this sentence, because this was indeed the general orientation of the right-wing State budget: the impoverishment of the country and the Portuguese, violently crushed, by cuts in incomes through the tax route, and also the closure of services, which had a huge impact on the interior territories, in fact, as we have seen from the devastating situations of depopulation and abandonment that we are suffering from inside.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u310	He even wants to laugh!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u311	It would be very good and the honourable Member would certainly be worthy of our admiration if she recognized the role of this reduction in public investment capacity, particularly at the level of public services. If we revisit the PSD/CDS coalition programme, we confirm that this was in fact the road to this legislation. Reversion of IRS overload? Yes, but in four years! at best, we would now be in the middle of the road, Mrs. Reversion of pay cuts in the public service, to such an unfair thing that the honourable Member has spoken about? Yes, ma'am, but only 20%! This means that we would continue in virtually the same situation. Retirement update? Don't! We had to save 600 million euros! Madam Member, let us not forget that, with the transition from IRS to five steps, the working families paid more than EUR 2000 million of IRS. We never forget this, Your Honor! Tax progressiveity fell objectively: those who earn less had to make a tax effort proportionally higher than those who earn the most. This is tax injustice that you have promoted. The increase in the number of steps of the IRS is a basic requirement for the recovery of incomes from many of those who suffered most during the period of your austerity. The increase in IRS steps is a requirement of greater fiscal progressiveity and greater tax justice. The collapse of steps of the IRS that the Left Block has come to defend insistently begins to take place, but this is the reverse path to the one that the PSD has made and that continues to defend. On the other hand, what does the PSD defend? Decreased IRC! Madam Member, does the PSD have anything to say about the IRS? Did the PSD want to keep everything in it, leave work and work income always under this pressure? Mrs Deputy, the PSD imposed austerity, reduced income, less tax progressiveity. And what does the PSD support in this Budget on this matter? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u312	To request clarification, Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u313	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister, Mr Sr. Members of the Government, I have some questions to ask Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque, but I cannot help but comment on some aspects of her speech. Now, in order not to appear to be against me, there is only one point of your intervention which I fully agree with, which is the matter of saving. In fact, there could be any more savings in this budget, which is very important. [[PSD laughter.]] It is the only point in your speech that I am right about. Now let's go to the points where I disagree, which are many. First: the honourable Member suggests that all the budgetary results that this Government has already achieved and that it intends to achieve are derived from the external environment. The question is that the State budget has an impact on economic growth. In fact, this was proven in the previous legislation, when it was found that, for example, in 2012 — it was Mrs Secretary of State at the time — the fact that she had cut wages and pensions in that dramatic magnitude has led to a brutal recession in the country. Therefore, this attitude of us assailing to the external environment all the benefits of the country is wrong. In fact, it may have been the biggest mistake of PSD/CDS governance not to realize that budgetary policy has an effect on economic growth.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u314	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u315	Second point: State weight. I don't know what your numbers are, Mr Member, but in my State Budget numbers, the weight of the state in the economy—which is measured in a way that is taught in all economic faculties, which is the ratio of public administrations'spending on GDP, decreases by 2018, confirming the value of 2017. Therefore, it is not true that it is increasing the weight of the State in the economy. Obviously, if you want to qualify a little better and say « good, but let's talk about primary expenditure », primary expenditure remains constant in 2017 and 2018. So let us be strict, and let us not say here, just to make a few headlines in the newspapers, that the state's weight in the economy is increasing, because it is not true. When the honourable Member refers to the structural balance, the Brussels compromise, etc. in fact, it is true that the structural balance is a very important indicator for assessing budgetary policy. But on this point, I wanted to say the following: The honourable Member is certainly reminded of what was the change in the structural balance in 2015 — almost the last year of all of his governance, in which he was Minister of Finance. I remind you, if you don't remember, that was 0, 6 %. Therefore, in the year of elections, the PSD aggravated the structural balance, and worsened it to a magnitude that this government has never, ever, done in no time. at present we expect an improvement in the structural balance of 0, 5 % for 2018, but in fact it is very difficult to improve the structural balance. The honourable Member will know why, and the reason is simple: it is because we are restoring income and we are repairing a situation of social injustice, particularly through the defrosting of careers in public service. Obviously this has an impact on the structural balance, but in any case let us be strict, the last change in the structural balance of the PSD/CDS Government was 0, 6 % and what is being proposed here is 0, 5 %. He said, in his speech, that he did not agree with anything, that he only agreed with a question on which we did not talk — the restructuring of the debt. Obviously, the State budget does not talk about debt restructuring. We may have this debate on another occasion, but not in this context. The questions are very simple and very concrete, Mrs Deputies. Do you agree with the reduction of the budget deficit to 1% of GDP in 2018? Yes or no? Does it agree with a tax breakdown in IRS and an increase in the progressiveity of IRS? Yes or no? Does it agree with the significant increase in public investment planned at EUR 1300 million for 2018? Yes or no? Does it agree with the support of children, preschoolers and their extension until they are 3 years old? Yes or no? I could continue to talk about 20 or 30 measures of this State budget, but I have highlighted only a few that I think are more relevant and of which I find it very difficult to disagree. I'll wait to hear your answer. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u316	Finally, to ask for clarifications, also by the Socialist Party, Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u317	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque, I appreciated your invitation to have a serious debate. And a serious debate should not start with falsehoods. [[PSD protests.]] Therefore, when it is said, as some Members of your party have already said here, as well as the honourable Member, that this Government increases the tax burden, it should be remembered—and it is the INE that still indicates this year—that the tax burden, from 2015 to 2016, i.e. from the last year of its Government to the first year of this government, fell from 34.6 % to 34.4 % of GDP. Therefore, the tax burden recordr is the previous government, which increased the tax burden every year : from 2012 to 2013, from 2013 to 2014 to 2015, reaching this maximum in 2015. This is the first falsehood. The second falsity is related to the increase in taxes that would be foreseen in the 2018 Budget. So let us look at the UTAO report, which has been mentioned several times in this debate, and we see that the balance between the measures that increase taxes and the measures that fall tax, both provided for in the Budget, is a balance which results in the overall reduction of the amount of taxes charged and the reduction of the tax burden. In other words, the total tax measures in this Budget reduce the tax burden by 0, 2 % of GDP. [[P.S.'s applause.]] She said that she could not find any other positive points in this State budget. I understand, because the worst blind is the one that doesn't want to see. Let me tell you about only two small points on a question you have raised, which is that of the independent professionals. With the approval of this Budget, the protection that other workers have always enjoyed is extended to self-employed, which is that of the State not to tax these workers beyond the minimum of existence. Isn't this a good point? in this budget, it is extended to self-employed workers a protection that already existed for dependent workers, which is the impermissibility of some of their incomes. Isn't this a positive move? I believe so, Mrs Deputies, because if an independent worker has reaped all his income, I assure you that the question of tax burden is relatively indifferent to him. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u318	The honourable Member may argue that these measures are good, that the previous government did not take them because they had and will — and will — have a weight in reducing tax revenue. So I'm telling you about two other measures, which Mr. Prime Minister has just mentioned. Simplex measures reflect, according to a university study, a reduction in business spending with the tax system by more than 600 million euros. And when the State reduces the costs it represents for companies, this is strictly equivalent to reducing the tax burden. This budget will save hundreds of millions of euros in financial costs to businesses, no longer requiring them to pay the amount of VAT they had to pay in customs until now. Madam Member, none of these measures, none of them, represent any loss of revenue. It is simple efficiency and good governance. As for the other measures, if you have not taken them with the excuse for the loss of revenue, I ask you: and for these measures, what is your excuse? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u319	In reply, Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u320	Mr President, I shall begin by Mr Pedro Soares of the Left Block, to whom I have heard that they will not give up the restructuring of public debt. I conclude, then, that they have given up being taken seriously. [[PSD laughter and applause.]] Do you approve four budgets without that and still insist? You must agree that the value of this insistence is purely virtual.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u321	Exactly! It's rhetoric!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u322	Mr Soares said that we should not forget the huge increase in taxes. No, Mr President, we do not forget the huge increase in taxes as we do not forget the reasons why we have forced the huge increase in taxes. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u323	It's nothing like that! It was the political choice they made!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u324	The gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen will not hear us here hiding what we have done or pretending that we do not support. We assumed what we did, that it was to inherit a country in bankruptcy and return, at the end of the legislature, a country to grow, with its returned credibility, with access to markets, with income replacement and with a reduction in tax burden. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS and BE protests.]] In fact, I was careful to make the reference to what we stand for, because unfortunately, the debate is always coming to an end — that we wanted to impoverish people, apparently because we are bad. As bad as we are, we want to impoverish people! Could not connect with command "%s": %s. [[Protests of BE and PCP and PSD contraprotests.]] The gentlemen. Members of the Bloc and the CFP are aware that in countries where the policies you are defending have been implemented throughout history, the poor have become increasingly poor? Who's defending the impoverishment, ladies and gentlemen? Ladies and gentlemen? Are they the gentlemen or are we? [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] To say that if the poor likes it is actually to contribute to their poverty, it is not to defend policies that exacerbate their poverty. [[All right!]] [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u325	He also wanted to mention the closure of public services and the fall in public investment. I did not want to believe that Mr Deputy, as part of this majority that governs, would speak to us about public investment, but he did indeed speak. It is that the public investment of this government, with the budgets approved by Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it is inferior to what we have done in years of difficulty, which are not even comparable, Mr. Member, either near or far! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u326	But I would have been quiet! [[Protests from BE Pedro Soares.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u327	Mr Soares also said that the reversals of the cuts were slow. It's true. In fact, I remember why I spoke on this issue and announced that we had a timetable that provided for these extraordinary measures to be removed in four years.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u328	You announced the overtax in election campaign!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u329	But I also said, and it is written, that if economic conditions were favorable and if possible we would do so more quickly. We are always in favour of budgetary caution, Mr President. What we never wanted was for the Portuguese to be taken back. In 2009, I was a civil servant, I had an increase of 2, 9 % in the 2009 State Budget and then they cut me 10 %. I would rather not have received it. I lost 7, 1 %! [[PSD applause.]] With regard to the increase in IRS steps, Mr Deputies, contrary to what he says, does not favour progressiveity. The reduction of steps, from eight to five, made the IRS much more progressive than it was before. [[PS protests.]] Mr President, it has been much more progressive than it was before when we moved from eight to five steps.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u330	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u331	In fact, the honourable Member asks me if I have nothing to say about the IRS, I have! I have to say that the tax relief in IRS that the PSD government put into practice was over 400 million. What do you have to show work already done in this area? Much less. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS Members' laughs.]] Mr President, this is particularly important for those who have suffered the most. Of course, yes, but we were careful to ask for more and more effort to whom else could. In fact, we don't even need to say it, says INE, Eurostat says, even studies of universities, which have already been cited as reliable sources — and still a few days ago one of them was reported in the newspaper — Portugal stands out for having been the country that has carried out a very long adjustment programme and has reduced inequality.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u332	It was the only one!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u333	We have reduced inequality, Mr President, we have been the only one to achieve this result. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u334	You want me to send you the study?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u335	And we have also been from countries subject to an adjustment programme, the one that has increased the progressiveity of taxes. Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira, agrees with the savings, I'm off to know! We hope that it will be possible to include in this Budget something that gives a positive signal in this sense, because, in fact, saving is what investment guarantees. If we don't save, we depend on others to invest. In fact, this is one of the great sources of our very heavy external debt, because we have one of the biggest debts in the world, but we have problems that others do not have: a large part of this debt is in the hands of foreigners, and makes all the difference the holders of debt are national or foreign. It is therefore essential to stimulate the savings of Portuguese so that we can finance investment with our resources as well.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u336	To save, you need to have money!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u337	The honourable Member said that I defended that growth is due only to the good external situation. I am afraid I have not been able to understand, growth is due to the good external situation and the structural reforms we have put into practice. I also said that part, but the honourable Member, perhaps, did not hear. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests of PS Members.]] On the question of the weight of the State, Mr President, the State Budget Report says that structural revenue and structural expenditure are increasing — I am quoting the State Budget Report that the Government has submitted to Parliament.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u338	That's not the weight of the state!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u339	When we increase structural revenue and structural expenditure, knowing that there are economic cycles, I invite you to reflect on what really happens to the State's weight in the economy. He said that the structural balance had been compounded by the PSD last year. Mr President, there is no memory in Portugal of a government having made a nominal and structural adjustment with the size of what the PSD government has done. There is no memory of an adjustment of such magnitude. In fact, it was essential to do so because we received a public deficit that exceeded 11 % of GDP... [[All right!]] [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u340	... and, without money to pay the bills, including wages and pensions, this effort was necessary and made, and was obviously done by the Portuguese.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u341	They received no deficit above 11 %!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u342	But it was thanks to this effort, to the structural reforms that were put into practice, that these elements now help the good external environment so that the country can grow. But, unfortunately, it does not yet grow, Mr President, very little to recover our delay. When we know that countries such as Lithuania, which have arrived in the European Union long after us, have arrived at the euro very recently, they already exceed us in GDP per capita, I think that Portuguese have the right to ask why the governments that are in office when the economic cycle is positive do not have the responsibility to ensure that Portuguese can also benefit from it. It is for you to bear this burden, it is not for you to rule in bankruptcy, which has very little choice. This burden belongs to those who rule in good times, because it is when money remains that one sees who knows how to manage it, when it does not exist or when it is missing, that money is almost managed by nature. [[All right!]] [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u343	The honourable Member asks whether we still agree with the reduction of the deficit to 1%. Mr President, of course we agree with the reduction of the deficit! The debt we have today is the memory of past deficits.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u344	And last recession too!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u345	We should be building budgetary surpluses to reduce debt, not only as a percentage of GDP but as an absolute value, so that we could have a lower share of interest, which depended not only on the European Central Bank but on ourselves. The more we reduce debt, the less affected we will be by regaining the normality of the European Central Bank. These are wasted opportunities that we also criticise in the options of this majority.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u346	He's still gonna end up defending the debt renegotiation!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u347	Do I agree with the increase in public investment? Mr President, I am making a challenge for you: ask me again in one year, because I do not know if there will be an increase in public investment. Judging by recent history, he won't. So agreeing, in theory, is one thing, to see what happens in practice, unfortunately, has been another. [[PSD applause.]] In fact, the Socialist Party is boasting - systematically - and still today the Prime Minister has mentioned it here again - that it does not present any corrective budgets. Again, I repeat, sirs. Members and Prime Minister, Reformary budgets are a demonstration of democratic respect and humility.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u348	It's true! That's right, that's right! [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u349	To come to this Parliament and say that what we are going to execute is different from what has been approved is democratic respect.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u350	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u351	Make a budget approve and execute a completely different thing,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u352	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u353	...you can call it whatever you want, but it is neither good practice nor respect. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u354	It's a little embarrassing!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u355	As to Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade's questions, he suggested that he review the tax burden numbers after the INE ( National Institute of Statistics ) had revised the growth of 2015 upwards because, in fact, as the denominator changed, the ratio was also different. [[PS Member Protest Fernando Rocha Andrade.]] I invite you to see the numbers already updated, with the new levels of growth that the INE saw up to 2015.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u356	Go to the INE database now!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u357	As for the reduction of the tax burden planned for 2018, once again I tell you, Member, we will see. When we have a history of Budgets in which execution and budgeting differ so much, it is very difficult to be here to take account only of what is written in the Budget. So in a year, we'll all be here if God wants, and we'll see if the tax burden has decreased or increased. Here we will be reminded of this debate. With regard to the issue of green receipts, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u358	I didn't talk about the specific deduction!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u359	He didn't mention the specific deduction, I'm sorry, it was the note I took, but he said it benefits the self-employed.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u360	It's impermeability!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u361	There we go to impermeability. If the objective is in fact to benefit those who have a lower income, then, honourable Member, in that case, why not allow the simplified regime to remain for those who want to opt for it? If the goal is to benefit some, why harm others? You have other goals, and if you told Parliament the truth, you recognized it. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] As for the issue of Simplex being very good, let me thank you: Mr said « there is a university study», only to add « a foreign university », which was something that was said a few years ago in the country when you wanted to give credibility to any information.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u362	It's really from the New University of Lisbon!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u363	The honourable Member says that it is very good and that it actually amounts to a reduction in the tax burden. Mr President, I bet if you ask any company if you prefer to reduce taxes or have the Simplex, the answer is that you prefer to reduce taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u364	He's betting!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u365	The honourable Member asks why we have not taken these measures. Let me give you a very frank answer, we have taken no further action because the Government programme we have presented has fallen and you have been ruling. Those who stand in opposition cannot take action, it is the nature of things. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] We have taken a lot of measures, Mr President, and we have taken a lot of measures. We have done what is the obligation of any government, which is to return the country to a better state than it has found. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] I hope we are wrong and you can boast of it, because, like Portuguese, we do not want evil for our country. So I wish you could say, when you leave the government, that you left him better than you found him. Allow us to doubt, all the more so, that we know the history of the action of these parties. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u366	For an intervention, Mrs Susana Amador has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u367	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: The proposal for the State Budget for 2018, which is currently under discussion, is based on the stability of the relevant public policies, which have placed the country on a path of sustainable growth and creating more and better employment, and continues to recover income from families, deepening justice in its distribution and reducing inequalities when taxed, increasing all pensions and social benefits, with emphasis on the increase in the family allowance for children between 12 and 36 months, benefiting a whole of 130 000 children, and on the extension of cooperation with the social and solidarity sector, by replacing more than 25% of the courts made by the Government of the right in the social income of inclusion and by making materialisation of a new social benefit: social benefit for inclusion, with an impact of 99 million euros. We thus deepen social protection policies in a serious fight against poverty that the right has expanded, particularly at the level of child poverty, and we pursue a national agenda for disability or disability. For the Socialist Party, solidarity is not a hollow word that hardly proclaims itself. The right to have rights, within the meaning of Hannah Arendt, is, for us, a political imperative, a pity that not everyone understands. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the permanent agenda for the promotion of equality, mirrored in this Budget, will not be neglected the fight against domestic violence and the continuation of equal opportunity between men and women, aiming at the implementation of mechanisms that lead to the elimination of wage disparities, which they stubbornly persist. We are still facing a Budget that consolidates the internal security system, continuing in 2018 the modernization and training of security forces, a Budget that meets the challenges of strengthening prevention and combating crime, which has, in 2016, underlined the lowest values of the last 15 years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The State Budget for 2018 defends the social state and public services, values people and has a dimension of the future—as the Prime Minister mentioned here—by betting in the new generations, from there investment in accessible housing, in education for all, in culture, science and innovation, by continuing the reconstitution and consolidation of public school and the National Health Service, areas so martyred in the past, where public employment has now grown (more 5800 workers in health, plus 3000 linked teachers, plus 1500 operational assistants for the school year 2017 / 2018 and more 500 assistants for 2018 / 2019 ), and by expanding coverage levels, renewing the school park and new health infrastructures(25 new family health units and 400 new health specialists in family medicine), thus diversifying offers and qualifying responses. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this Budget also guarantees the process of convergence for Europe of knowledge, which we resumed in 2016, implementing the contract of legislature with universities and politics, in conjunction with an increase in general revenue for the institutions of the superior, strengthens the digital skills of the population and extends the recruitment base, keeping the relative number of scholarships by 20 % of the total of higher education students, with the consequent increase of the social action grant, reaching EUR 144 million. It also reinforces the scientific employment and the increase in the budget of the Foundation for Science and Technology, which will allow the support of 1600 new doctoral scholarships in 2018 and 3000 new contracts for doctoral researchers. Knowledge is our commitment to the future, because without knowledge there is no innovation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the quality of the education system and the strengthening of equity in education at all ages are central to the Government and the Socialist Party, so the extension of the school coverage network will continue with the opening of 70 new rooms that join the 100 last year, with an impact of EUR 1, 9 million. Strengthening school social action with the creation of a third step to support the acquisition of school textbooks of the 2. o is 3. the teaching cycles and the extension of school meals services, during the holidays of Christmas and Easter, for students receiving school social action in the schools of priority intervention territories. The expansion of vocational education will be a reality with new courses and vacancies (3, 9 million euros) and a strong commitment will be made in adult education, so despised by the previous government, with the strengthening of Qualifica centres with 39 million euros, aiming at overcoming our deficit of qualified adults, as we know, an important predictor of the school success of children and vital to our economic competitiveness. School success and innovation will be promoted with local strategies, with curriculum flexibility and with the strengthening of resources in priority educational areas, guaranteed by the reduction in the number of students per class, with EUR 24, EUR 6 million. It is a school of citizens that we are building, listening to the voice of students and implementing a National Education Strategy for Citizenship, which is already launched in 200 schools. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, through this State budget, a renewed and ambitious housing policy, oriented towards universal access to a decent housing, which favours rehabilitation and renting at affordable prices and leaves a housing policy focused on homes for a policy that places people at its centre, also highlights the Porta de Intro programme to support urgent housing situations. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this Budget also opens up the doors of the future with the continued modernisation and innovation of the State, so that the life of citizens and businesses becomes simpler, strengthening the relationship of trust between citizens and the State with Simplex, also deepening the commitment to proximity, simplification and efficiency in justice, where the Justice + Next programme is nuclear in a sovereign function that grows 7, 7 % compared to the estimate for 2017. But we need to go further in this reformist drive, we know that only with a stronger local power and with more expertise and financial means will it be possible to reform the state, making it more decentralized, closer and more efficient, thus better fulfilling the collective aspirations. The financial rigor in the authorities, their continuing budget surplus and the forecast balance of EUR 997, EUR 4 million, which is planned for 2018, attest to this path of solidity, responsibility and guarantee for the future. We have always relied on local power and our autarchs and therefore continue a line of convergence with the Local Finance Law, transferring more EUR 39 million to the local administration, thus constituting a positive transition to its revenue. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the reform of decentralization is present in this budget, it is for discussion in Parliament and needs convergence so that we can do what has not yet been done: a better Portugal! [[P.S.'s applause.]] A better Portugal is certainly also done with the local power, where the heart of democracy dwells. The State Budget for 2018 realises the essence of politics: to realize people and promote a society based on human dignity and solidarity, because there is no sustainable economic growth without us all thinking, and we are all Portugal, a better Portugal! We are sure that the Portuguese, who are accompanying us, approve this budget! A Budget of the future, of confidence, of hope and of broad sights! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u368	In view of the fact that no registration is made for a request for clarification to Mrs Susana Amador, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u369	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When, in 2015, the Left Block placed as a precondition, for an agreement with the Socialist Party, the entry into force of the law of automatic updating of pensions, it did so because it did not accept neither the inevitability of the cut of EUR 2400 million, promised by the CDS and the PSD to Brussels, nor the maintenance of the freezing, as was registered by the PS in its electoral programme. In both cases, in the case of PSD and CDS, as in the case of PS, if these policies were applied, the pensioners today would be receiving less than one or two months'pension in real terms. Instead, the country will see, next year, all the strength of the choice that we have been able to make in 2015 : in January, all pensions will be increased and nine in every 10 pensioners will have a higher increase than inflation. When, in March 2018, we started budgetary negotiations with the government, we knew that we were far from reaching a satisfactory agreement in the IRS. It took many months of work and discussion, simulations and presentation of alternatives, to move from one step to two steps and of the 200 million, initially provided for in the CFP, to the current 400 million tax relief at work. Well, then, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who are, after all, such particular interest groups, as the PSD talked about, or corporate interests, as the CDS said, the customers that PSD and CDS accused the Block of wanting to favor, are, nothing more and nothing less, all pensioners and all workers who in 2018 will see their income increased. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us see how the right is called 'customers' to all the elderly, calls 'customers' to all pensioners, calls 'customers' to all the unemployed, to all the workers, the right now insults those who persecuted in the past. Mrs. Members, what PSD and CDS call « customer favouring » we call « fulfilled promises », we call « justice », which is done with whom the brutal increase in taxes imposed by Victor Gaspar. Mrs Maria Luís Albuquerque, when she chose to go down the IRC, but kept an overtax of 3, 5 % for those who received 600 € or for those who received 60 000 € / year, made a choice that destroyed progressiveity and fiscal justice...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u370	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u371	... and that it has now been corrected by the measures we adopt in this budget. [[Congratulations from BE.]] What the right calls 'promoting customers' we call 'good economic policy', the economic policy that shows the country that is not impoverishing that growth and employment is recovered, quite the contrary. It is precisely in the fight against poverty that this reality is built up that every day attracts the right plans: sound accounts, employment, increased domestic demand, increased exports, improved wages, improved pensions, more dignity, improved living conditions. We understand, therefore, why PSD and CDS do not like these budgets. We built while the right is trying to destroy. We build trust and build security and the right either fear or poverty. We therefore see that this repeated reality of budgets fulfilling the Constitution is unusual. We realize that we find it strange that pensions can be increased, that IRS can decrease, that more teachers can be linked and that civil servants are entitled to their professional dignity, which has been stolen from them for so many years. Who always understood that pensions were the state miller, that workers were easy source of tax revenue and that public officials were the cause of the inefficient state, cannot understand what we are doing here today. But that's not all, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, who promoted the speech of inevitability, who agreed to obey without raising the voice or head...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u372	You're the one who's down your head!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u373	... also cannot understand the nature of this parliamentary majority, nor the nature of the relationship of the Left Block with the Government. We recognize the course we have made, with difficulties and with conquest, we face for all the difficulties and achievements we have made, with clarity and frontality. And it is clear and frontal that we say that we are not yet satisfied with this budget proposal. Not so much for what it contains but for what it lacks and for the expectations—and very legitimate—that we still have to answer. Green receipts continue to await a contribution regime that protects them and guarantees a stable future. We need to give them security. State precariouss expect to see their situation finally regularized. They deserve security. The country requires measures to combat and prevent fires and forest protection to see its immediate budgetary translation. It's safe for us to talk, but not just. Mr. Prime Minister, there are still other promises to be fulfilled in this legislature: recovery of the National Health Service with investment in personnel, primary care and population care; investment in the public transport network, from CP to urban transport, through the Lisbon Metropolitan. in these areas, as in culture and education, the response of this Budget is insufficient, is insufficient in view of what is necessary and is insufficient in view of the commitments that have been made. Mr Minister for Finance, we know that it is not enough to budget, it is necessary to implement what has been budgeted, it is necessary to exhaust the investment potential envisaged in each Budget because this is not an option, it is a political mandate of the parliamentary majority that votes for the Budget. The deficits that systematically go beyond the agreed targets show that the budget implementation can go further and the Left Block does not abdicate, nor will it abdicate, this requirement.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u374	Look!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u375	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no blank checks in this Parliament, no marked letters. The final version of the State budget will be the Assembly of the Republic that will decide. There are measures, such as those affecting the simplified scheme, which need to be clarified and improved, but there is also room for new proposals. The Left Block Parliamentary Group has already come up with a very simple idea: that the slightly larger contribution of businesses with profits above EUR 35 million, through the increase in the IRC spill, which had already been agreed between PSD, CDS and PS at the time when the normal rate of IRC has fallen, can serve to finance justice policies for those who may be less, but needs much more, which can serve to end the 10% cut in unemployment allowance for those who have been unemployed longer and who need more support, which can be used to approve a reform supplement for early retirement pensioners, who are pushed by the rules of former Minister Pedro Mota Soares of the CDS, for a pension of misery today live in poverty after a lifetime of work. Justice, commitment and determination to defend these, as with other proposals, is the commitment of the Left Block to the budgetary process which is now under way and is based on this commitment that we will adopt the State budget in general. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u376	As there is also no registration for requests for clarification to the honourable Member, we shall proceed to the following intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u377	Mr President, I would like to speak for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u378	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u379	Mr President, for a brief period we do not register Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes to request clarification from Mrs Mariana Mortágua. If it is still possible, we shall register it, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u380	If the Left Block does not come any drawback, although registration has been made out of time, you have the word of Mrs.Margarida Balsairo Lopes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u381	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, the inconsistencies between what the Block says and what the Block does are already too obvious. We can talk about captivating, in which for years we have heard the Left Block criticising and now, by the third consecutive budget, what we see is the Left Block supporting more than EUR 1700 million of captivating. What used to be cut are now merely budgetary management instruments. The Left Block is, three consecutive years ago, conviving attacks on public service in education, health, defense, civil protection and, let me remind you that, in the last 10 years, the four Budgets with the greatest volume of captivations were precisely the Budgets of 2010, 2016, 2017 and now the Budget for 2018,... [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] ...and I remember that three of these Budgets have a high patronage of the Left Block. We can also talk about public investment. Who doesn't remember listening to the Left Block between 2011 and 2015 claiming more public investment? Yeah, it's now seeing them little ones and convivient with what's the worst public investment there's memory and record.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u382	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u383	It was so in 2016, it continues to be so in 2017 and will continue to be so in 2018.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u384	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u385	But there is more: the Left Block, which goes there to the rostrum saying that it will increase the state spill for large companies, is the same Left Block that last year gave a tax brokerage of 220 million euros to large companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u386	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u387	Only in the case of EDP were almost 180 million euros! By the way, what consistency is it with you who, after so much contesting taxes, have approved and contributed to a budget that reaches the record of the tax burden?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u388	That's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u389	That is to say, it was with you, with your vote, that you have reached the highest ever peak of the resources that the State requires of taxpayers and several of them are very unfair, as is the case with fuel tax - 600 million euros - which weighs so much on those who have less. In fact, even those who have no income to pay IRS pay the tax increase. [[PS protests.]] And what will the Left Block do about self-employed workers, the same ones that have been used as an example of precariousness in Portugal? The Government makes an unprecedented attack on self-employed people in this budget proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u390	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u391	Mrs Mariana Mortágua said two weeks ago that the Bloc will not support any measure that further makes life difficult for those who live with green receipts. Question: are you going to be consistent this time or not? Are they or are they not on the side of the PSD to repeal the immutable changes to the simplified scheme of self-employed people? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u392	That's incoherence!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u393	In reply, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u394	Mr President, Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes, has failed in two points.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u395	Just two? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u396	First, the Block, in the past, did not criticize captivating, criticized cuts, because it was cut we were talking about. Secondly, the Block criticizes the captivating, and criticizes with all the frontality and with all the truth. [[PSD protests.]] If you're calm enough to listen to me, I'll explain the difference between cuts and captivations. The Block not only criticizes how it did more than the PSD was able to do. It was able to bring transparency so that the country knew where the seizures were being made, which the PSD could not even do even if it was said to be opposed to this government. Mrs Deputy, then I'm going to tell you what the difference between capitulations and cuts is. In 2013 the PSD/CDS government, which the honourable Member supported, budgeted more than 392 million for health but then executed less than 1067 million — that is a cut. In other words, as it increased by 300 million budgeted and executed less than 1067 million, it was a court case. in total, between 2012 and 2015, the value actually spent on education in this country was minus 444 million — this is a cut.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u397	Last year, how was health?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u398	In 2016 and 2017, the effectively executed values were 846 million in health and 413 million in education. This is the huge difference that separates the left block from the PSD. [[Congratulations from the BEe of the PS MP João Galamba.]] When the Left Block criticizes captivating is because it wants more in budgets and Mr. Members, when they were able to support a government, what they did was cut into budgets. Therefore, one could not hear about captivating because there was no increase in expenditure, there were reductions in expenditure. Madam Member, do not want to confuse the terms of the debate, nor do you want to confuse the legitimate criticism that the Left Block makes to the Government because of the seizures with the cuts that you are taking. Members and the rulers of the time did when they were in the government. [[PSD protests.]] Mrs Deputies, I do not understand the incoherence of someone who, when he had the opportunity to govern, cut, cut off — cut investment, cut public services, cut expenditure, cut social rights, cut social support — and, when he stopped being in the government, he came to ask the government to do what he had never done while he was in government, breaking any line of political coherence just because, let us be honest, he has nowhere to take to criticise macroeconomic developments and not even the budgetary choices that restore income and rights. at the end of the accounts, the problem is the disorientation and lack of PSD policy line. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] [[PSD protests.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u399	Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u400	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen. Members: After almost an afternoon of debate on this State budget, it is right to make a subjective analysis on the protagonists of this budget and objective on its content. Regarding the protagonists, this is another two-sided budget. All those who defend this Budget have two sides. The Socialist Party has a face in Brussels, where it says that it does everything Brussels sends, which goes beyond Brussels, that it will do everything Brussels asks for and that it will do more than what the previous government has done, and is proud of that. Cá, he expects no one to read what he writes in Brussels and says he will do whatever left the Budget wants. So, say something out there, say something else inside, and now everybody realizes that they're not telling the truth in one place or another. Then we have the Left Block, which, in all its splendor, as always, says it is against those captivitys that for the third time will vote. He has a face here in Parliament where he votes for the captives and has another face out when he says that he is against and that these captives are unacceptable. Then we have the PCP, which, as a result of the election result, had to go back to the street. But let's get rid of it: it says something on the street but here it continues to vote against it. Therefore, it would be possible to find some inconsistencies in each of the sides of the protagonists of this budget, but the only thing that is true is that everyone is lying and everyone votes. They all lie to their voters, they lie to their support bases, but they continue to vote because everyone is afraid to take consequences from what they say but do not do. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem of this budget is not a basis for support. If we want to discuss alternative proposals, they only come from the opposition, because we already know that the proposals that come from the parties that support the government have no consequences, since in the end they end up voting everything. But this budget has a problem in its content: it is not serious, because it has no transparency and continues to hide from Parliament what is the true implementation of the budget. Budget spending is spending less and, among other things, budgeting and executing, it does not account for Parliament and it hides what the political options it does, not allowing the scrutiny of these political options. Then it's not a serious budget because it hides. He says he gives what he pulls out on the other side. It's the ideal budget for anyone who wants to stay still. This budget, says the PS, gives more to public servants, gives more to the reformers, even gives more to all contributors. And that could be true if each of these parliamentary groups remained still. Otherwise we see: if anyone who receives the most wants to move, he pays more tax on oil products. If the State has given, with the tax on petroleum products, the State takes away. If anyone supposedly received more hunger, he can eat, but without salt, because he eats with salt what the State has given. If anyone who seems to have received more thirst, he may drink, but without sugar, because if it is with sugar the State he has given is the State he pulls out.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u401	Ridiculous!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u402	We also have the most extraordinary issue, which is who you want to do vocational training. That is why the State does not give, because the State says that it bets on vocational training but takes the money and does not allow it effectively in sectors where skilled labour is needed, this workforce is qualified to respond to such need. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Whoever is an independent worker may also find, by the IRS, that the State gives him. But he knows that he can no longer deduce and the same state that gave him is the same thing that he took away from him. But the worst of all attacks is the reformers. The State says it gives the pension, but then hidden, the General Deposit Box goes and, in committee, charges more than each pensioner received monthly increase. The State that was supposed to give is the state that then ends up taking away. [[CDS-PP applause.]] This is a budget of dissimulations behind dissimulations, of increases behind increases, of whom he is a specialist in distributing what he is totally unable to help create. The last of all the problems in this budget is that we do not have the sustainability that we need to have. This is the best scenario, since the entry into the euro, that any government has had to make a budget — never a government, if it were a party, had such good conditions to make a budget as this government has this year — but this government continues to want to be the best of all to distribute it and continues to be totally incompetent to create consistency for this distribution. Otherwise let's see what happens to investment and growth. They do not compare with what the CDS and PSD propose in their electoral proposals, they compare with what the PS proposes when it applied. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u403	Mr. João Piinho de Almeida is a bench coach!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u404	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if you compared what the CDS and PSD said to be closer to reality than to what you believe in! You like being deceived, but the Portuguese don't like it. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] The Portuguese have a little more self-esteem than the parties to the left of the PS, and you have to realize that! The Portuguese want the truth because they are not like you, the Portuguese are not to be deceived as you like to be.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u405	The Portuguese are happy!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u406	Comparing the estimates of growth and exports of this Budget with what you propose in the macroeconomic scenario, they should be ashamed. What you said was necessary in order to pursue your policy is totally 'unsuitable' with this budget. This budget falls short of growth, falls short of investment, falls short of sustainability and falls short of seriousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u407	Mr President, it is far from the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u408	That is why the conclusion is only one. When the government had the best conditions ever to make a good budget for the good of Portugal, it chose to make a budget for itself and the conclusion is obvious: it cannot go well. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u409	The Bureau shall not register entries for requests for clarification. For an intervention, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u410	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The proposal for the State Budget for 2018 makes new steps towards the defence, replacement and conquest of rights, steps that are inseparable from the decisive contribution of the CFP and the struggle of workers and the people. But the positive measures that form part of the State budget do not illustrate its limitations, resulting from the options of the PS and its Government with regard to the European Union's taxes and the prevalence of the interests of large capital. Without the unsustainable weight of public debt interest and the obsession with the deficit, how far could this Budget go in the replacement of rights and income? With other options regarding the taxation of large capital, what answers could be given to the problems of workers and the people? Without the ruinous charges with public-private partnerships, what progress could be made in improving public services and social functions of the State? With a priority option for public investment, what country could we be building for the next few years? Yes, the state budget proposal contains advances that are to be valued and the CFP values them. But without the parcels that the PS imposes on itself, we could be taking other steps to improve people's living conditions, to improve the country's structural problems and to overcome the vulnerabilities and dependencies that take away our economic and social development. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, in all that is ahead and wins the proposal for the State budget, the CFP has its intervention, its proposals and its persistence: in the elimination of restrictions on the rights of employees of the Public Administration ; in the payment of extraordinary hours of night work and quality hours ; in the thawing of career progress and in the full payment by the end of the Legislature of the corresponding remuneration ; in the revision of the pay table of the operational assistants ; in the new extraordinary increase of pensions, which will cover more than 1, 6 million retirees, resulting in, for the second consecutive year, a recovery of the lost purchasing power; in the increase of the minimum existence, which will result in a reduction or exemption of IRS payment for hundreds of thousands of workers and retirees, and in the increase in the number of steps of IRS, meaning a reduction of nearly 3 million taxpayers of the 2. the e of the 3. The steps. For all these measures, the CFP has made a decisive contribution. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the problem of the shortage of public investment cannot be mistaken, which has hardly allowed the degradation of public services verified over the years, driven by the PSD / CDS government, and which has not allowed the ability of these services to respond to people's problems. Pending surgery, degraded schools, rough roads, abolished trains, long waiting lines in public distributions, these are the consequences of the lack of public investment. in the common examination that the CFP made with the Government we identified the issue of increasing public investment as the central issue to which it urgently needs to be answered. It is necessary to significantly strengthen public investment in areas such as health, education, forest, transport, housing, culture, justice, security forces and services and the Armed Forces. The analysis of the State budget proposal does not allow a strict assessment of the investments that the Government intends to make in 2018. Therefore, it is in the view of the CFP that the Government should make available to the Assembly of the Republic the complete and comprehensive list of public investments planned for 2018, broken down project to project, as was the case in the PIDDAC's Map XV ( Central Administration Investment and Development Programme ). Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : What justifies a 1 % GDP deficit target (gross domestic product) knowing, as you know, the problems facing the country? Shouldn't economic growth and job creation be given priority, even if that meant a higher deficit? And should not the primary balance, more than EUR 5 billion, entirely consumed by debt interest, be used to respond to the problems of people and the country, to value wages and pensions, to improve public services and the functions of the State, to respond to demanding problems in health and education? The goals that the Government imposes on itself to fully comply with the European Union's guidelines on issues such as budgetary deficit, primary balance or public debt are particularly negative in the state budget proposal, limiting the scope of the policy on the replacement of rights and income. And the longer it takes to break with these European Union taxes the longer it lasts the consequences of the policy of exploitation and impoverishment of the former PSD/CDS government. But it is not just the State budget that must be set free from the constraints and spreads to our sovereignty imposed by the European Union. Budget implementation, including captivating, should also aim at responding to the problems of workers and the people, improving public services and state functions. It was also in this sense that the CFP tabled a proposal for an amendment to the Budget Framework Act, in order to ensure that the Assembly of the Republic has political control instruments relating to the use of captives in budgetary management. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : in the discussion on the speciality which will now begin, the CFP will work, among other aspects, for the full replacement of the rights of employees of the Public Administration ; for the elimination of the cuts in unemployment benefit; for the extension of the free education manuals to 2. o is 3. the cycles; by strengthening the extraordinary measure of support for long-term unemployed; by valuing family allowance; by reducing energy costs; by defrosting the IMI, by increasing the state level of businesses with profits over EUR 35 million. The CFP is going to beat to ensure that the salary increase is guaranteed for all workers and the national minimum wage increase to 600 euros in January 2018. Experience shows that defending and replacing rights and income is not only a factor of social justice but also a decisive contribution to economic development. Experience shows that the constraints resulting from PS's options in the face of external interference and the interests of large capital limit and prevent the necessary response to the country's structural problems. That is why we say that it is possible and necessary for the State budget to incorporate new advances. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u411	To request clarification, Mr José Cesario has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u412	Mr President, Mr Paulo Sá, on the day we first learned that Mr. Minister of Education is radically in the fight for the rights of teachers against himself, I presume, against your Government, against Mr. Prime Minister Antonio Costa, against Mr. Minister of Finance, I assume that in the line of that Minister of Agriculture we have had a few years ago that he also expressed himself against his own Government, I would like to congratulate the honourable Member and the CFP because they were consistent, there is no doubt, and here they reaffirmed their intention to vote favourably this Budget. So they did the pretext of the 2016 Budget, of 2017, of 2018, and out there... They are giving some notes, negotiating some things, some reservations, but, essentially, the Communist Party assumes this position to collaborate with the government. That is exactly why I would like to ask the honourable Member about a question which is put today by a colleague of yours, the President of the City Council of Six, who asks the Government — and how you are negotiating with the Government on the implementation of all these measures permanently, I would like him to explain here and through us to his comrade Joaquim Santos — when there is a response to the lack of funding from the firefighters' corporations. Why, once and for all, does the government not look at the operational issue of combating fires and relief to populations in a non-reactive way, as has happened, but structurally? When are there, in fact, structural measures? By the way, Mr President, do you explain here where the funds are for doing what is essential, which is prevention in the fight against fires, in particular the cleaning of forests? Where are the money for combating desertification in the interior? And, Mr President, I would also like to comment on the complaint made today by several environmental associations that this government has increased the eucalyptus forest area much more than the previous government. [[Protests from PS, PCP and the Greens.]] Explain, Mr. Deputy! Explain the reality here and leave these things there just to say that it supports the government but, in the middle, it will give a touch or other oppositionist just to account for. Explain, Mr. Deputy! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u413	To reply, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u414	Mr President, Mr José Cesario, before answering your questions, I would just like to recall one sentence that you said: that the CFP is negotiating with the Government some things... These things are, Mr, for example, the extraordinary increase in pensions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u415	Yeah, that's a little thing! ...A little thing!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u416	... the significant relief of the IRS to nearly 3 million taxpayers, the replacement of rights in the Public Administration. That is what you call things of no interest at all! Open... [[PCP, BE, Os Verdes and PS Members applauded.]] But I tell you, Mr President, these things, which you despise so much, benefit millions and millions of Portuguese, that you welcome these measures, and if anything we have to say is that they are unfortunately not going as far as we would like them to be. On the issues of lack of investment, he did not pay attention to the intervention I made from the rostrum, where I mentioned this concern about the lack of investment, which is not only now because it also came from the PSD/CDS government. Furthermore, the PSD/CDS government has cut deep into investment, affecting the capacity of public services to respond to these problems, including those which Mr José Cesario referred to, for example, the forest. in the common examination with the government we put this issue as a central issue: progress needs to be made, significant progress needs to be made in public investment, providing public services of material and human resources that allow them to give a complete response to people's problems. That is our commitment and that is why we have worked and will continue to work, Mr Cesario, so that public services can be provided with the appropriate means to fully perform their duties. We will be in this struggle, contrary to the PSD and also the CDS that have done everything to reduce public investment and to reduce the capacity of the State to respond to people's problems. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-02.u417	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are no more entries for today. Our meeting tomorrow will take place at 10 a.m. with the continuation, in point 1, of the evaluation of the proposals of lein. 99 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Great Plan Options for 2018 and 100 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the State budget for 2018 ; in point 2 we shall have the closure of the debate; in point 3 we shall have the motion for a resolution No 55 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — To approve the Cooperation Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Kingdom of Morocco on Internal Security, signed in Lisbon on 20 April 2015, without time for discussion, and in point 4 shall take place the statutory votes, also with time for discussion. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, prepare for a long journey tomorrow, because, unfortunately, today from my point of view, we have finished too soon. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 20 hours and 7 minutes.]]
