ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u1	Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. Before we move on to the agenda, I ask the Secretary, Mr Duarte Pacheco, to proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, Bill No 82 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 134 / 2015 of 24 July 2015 regulating the allocation of social mobility allowance to beneficiary citizens within the framework of air and maritime services between the continent and the Autonomous Region of Madeira and between this and the Autonomous Region of the Azores, pursuing social and territorial cohesion objectives ( ALRAM ), which falls to 6. the Commission, the drafts of lein. 521 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — The fourth amendment to Law No 39 / 2009 of 31 August as amended by Decree-Law No 114 / 2011 of 30 November and Law No 52 / 2013 of 25 July and the amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Technical and Safety of the Stadiums, annexed to Regulation Decree No 10 / 2001 of 7 June in order to enable the existence of duly identified sectors in sports venues in which professional national sports competitions are held, allowing viewers to remain standing throughout the game ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 12. the Commission, and 522 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The fourth amendment to Law No 39 / 2009 of 31 August as amended by Decree-Law No 114 / 2011 of 30 November and Law No 52 / 2013 of 25 July and the amendment to Law No 34 / 2013 of 16 May ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 1. the Commission. They also entered the Bureau, and were admitted, draft resolutions 878 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government urgently initiate the invitation to tender for works in the West Line and, in the meantime, replaces the circulating material currently in circulation ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 879 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends urgent intervention in the requalification of the CI2 between Leiria and Pombal and the CI8 between Pombal and Ansion ( PSD ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 880 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government carry out studies and awareness-raising actions on the diagnosis of Hyperactivity Disorder with Deficiencies in Care and the consumption of methylphenidate and atomoxetine by children and young people ( NAPs ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 881 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures at the level of the diagnosis of Hyperactivity Disorder with Deficit Care, the prescription and administration of methylphenidate and atomoxetine in children and young people ( NAP ), which falls to 9. the Commission, 882 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote an extended debate and sensitize health professionals to the use of various PHDA ( PAN ) diagnostic tests, which decreases to 9. the Commission, and 883/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government work towards the construction of a regional slaughterhouse in the Algarve ( BE ), which falls to 7. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to the next item, I should like to say that at the end of the sitting we will vote for condemnation and regret the attack in Manchester, in solidarity with the people and the Government of the United Kingdom and with the victims of this brutal attack, which took place yesterday in Manchester, sadly. I therefore ask that at the end of the sitting the Members. Members stay in their seats. Let us therefore start the 15th-year debate with the Prime Minister under Article 224 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u4	Mr President, Prime Minister, let us see if I can quickly ask you three very specific questions. The first question relates to the exit of the excessive deficit procedure. Mr. Prime Minister, contrary to what the PSD and the CDS were trying to make believe, the impoverishment of Portuguese is not a remedy, it is not a solution to the deficit nor to any of the country's real problems. in this sense, the removal of this impoverishment strategy is crucial for the dynamization of our economy and therefore, Prime Minister, reverse the path of austerity that was being imposed by the PSD and the CDS has proved a good strategy. But there is another thing I would like to say to the Prime Minister about the exit of the excessive deficit procedure. This issue now creates a margin of action which must lead the Government to cease to shrink from certain strategic and fundamental issues for the country, namely to increase the number of steps of the IRS (tax on income of natural persons) and to make an investment in sectors as fundamental as health, to respond to the specific needs of Portuguese or as an incentive to local production, with so many social, economic and environmental advantages. Otherwise, if these bets are not made, Mr. Prime Minister, nothing will, after all, be strongly different. The second question I would like to ask you concerns the uranium exploration in Salamanca. Mr. Prime Minister, it is appropriate that the Government should not be caught in Portugal or in front of Spain. I confess that it makes a deep impression to me that the Government cannot say with all the latrines it will defend before the Spanish Government the closure of the Almaraz nuclear power plant. And it makes the same impression to me the Portuguese Government's passivity with respect to this uranium exploration in Salamanca, barely 30 km from the Portuguese border, with concrete threats and impacts in Almeida, in Figueira de Castelo Rodrigo and in the localities bathed by Douro. What I would like to know, Prime Minister, is whether you want the matter of Almaraz or the matter of uranium exploration in Salamanca will be on the agenda of the next Iberian summit next week. The last question, Prime Minister, concerns the question of Altice, which bought PT / MEO, had announced the dismissal of nearly 3000 workers—at least this was the news that came to the public. However, this intention of the High Council to fire these thousands of workers, in order to be implemented, will have to have the status of a restructuring company behind them, and this is where the government clearly and directly enters history. It is good to remember that we are talking about a company that has seen its revenues grow substantially, information that we should not leave aside.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u5	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u6	I will finish, Mr. President. So what did the Greens consider important? That today, in this debate, Mr Prime Minister, on behalf of the Government, would announce that he would not accept this intention of the Altice and that he would contribute to the preservation of those jobs. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u7	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u8	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I will try to be as quick as possible to answer the three questions you have raised. Firstly, it is clear that the question of trust has been decisive, has been decisive and will continue to be decisive in order to have a path of sustainable growth, investment generator, employment, without which we could not leave the procedure due to excessive deficit. And the key to this trust was the reinstatement of family incomes, a consistent strategy that enabled citizens to regain confidence and hope in their future. As far as the questions you are concerned, if there is anything that this government cannot be accused of is passive. With regard to Almaraz, we acted by forcing Spain to present the documentation which had not been submitted to us, submit it to a public hearing and appoint a technical group, which made a set of recommendations which were indeed accepted by the Spanish Nuclear Security Council and are being implemented. With regard to the Retortillo mines, this is a subject we are following. In fact, there is a 2008 protocol that regulates this matter and that must be fulfilled and we know that an environmental impact study was conducted in 2014, that APA (Portuguese Environment Agency) has requested and has already obtained, and is currently making its assessment. We will not specifically address these issues at the summit for the simple reason that these issues have been dealt with directly by the Minister for Foreign Affairs with his counterpart, by the Minister for the Environment with his counterpart and by myself with the President of the Government of Spain. We have dealt with and we will continue to deal with these matters in its three dimensions: the warehouse, the mine and the future of the Spanish nuclear system. Finally, with regard to PT, to be very clear: the Government will not give any authorization for such dismissals to be made because nothing justifies them. In fact, we have indicated that there has already been a rejection by the CEO (executive chief officer) of the Altice. I do not know if there has been, but what is true is that, as far as the government is concerned, we will not give any authorization to make such dismissals. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u9	Mr Luís Montenegro of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u10	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, first of all because Mr Prime Minister has not answered fully the question of Mr Heloísa Apolónia, the question concerning the Almaraz nuclear power plant is this: we know that the Government has created a working group and is doing the study which Mr Prime Minister has announced here. But the question is whether or not the Government will comply with a unanimous resolution by the Portuguese Parliament which aims to initiate the efforts to ensure the closure of this plant, given that it is 40 years ago in 2020 and that this will be the appropriate time to promote its closure, also for security reasons, among others. The question is whether or not the Government and the Prime Minister will comply with that resolution, which I repeat is unanimous in Parliament. Mr Prime Minister, as you have already mentioned, we held this debate after the European Commission's decision to recommend to the Council that Portugal be removed from the excessive deficit procedure. We want to remember that this is the third time, in the last 15 years, that Portugal comes in and out of the excessive deficit procedure. Therefore, I believe that, as a country, we must have the humility to recognize that being cyclically entering and leaving an excessive deficit procedure is bad for the country, it is not life for a country like Portugal. And it is not life for Portugal because excess deficit is a blockade to a solid and lasting growth of our economy and to a solid and lasting growth of our social fabric. Mr Prime Minister, we Portuguese well know how tough it is to take measures to get out of this procedure, particularly those of the measures that led to this last exit. Let all the Portuguese who suffered in the skin the policies of austerity, which, contrary to what Mrs Heloísa Apolónia had just said, were not characteristic of the last government, but come, yes, since 2010 in all its fullness and have reached many and many families of Portuguese. It is, Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very interesting to be able to say today that we are leaving the excessive deficit procedure, but we must not forget that in 2009 we had a deficit of 11 % and in 2015 we reached a deficit of 3 %. It is also true that we are now leaving this procedure because we reached a deficit of 2 % in 2016, but by means of it we had a rescue and a troika that, in fact, imposed very hard measures, which cost the Portuguese very much, much effort and sacrifice. We therefore want to highlight precisely the effort and tenacity of the Portuguese people to deal with and overcome this situation on this occasion. We have no problem in also complimenting the government for continuing to lower the deficit that has been going on since 2011. But this compliance with the Government also involves a requirement, because it is necessary not to break the effort made, Prime Minister. It is necessary to grow, and it is necessary to grow much more than what we grew in 2016, because we will not endure a path of fiscal consolidation if we do not put our country growing at least twice as much as we grew last year. And it is necessary to continue reforming the state and reforming the economy. It is therefore necessary to sustain a path of healthy public finances and lasting economic growth. To this end, Mr Prime Minister, there are two political issues which we believe are fundamental. The first has to do with you and your government. The country needs to know whether this Prime Minister wants to stop living only the income of the inheritance he has received or whether he wants to add value to his passage by the government in order to project the future. [[Rises of PS and Prime Minister Members.]] Mr. Prime Minister laughs...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u11	It's not just him! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u12	... but do not forget that you have received a growing country; you have received a country with the deficit to decrease, and much; you have received a country with the unemployment to be reduced and all this is the result of several structural reforms that have actually been implemented from 2011 to 2015. In addition, Mr Prime Minister today has a very favourable situation because, fortunately, he has Europe to recover economically, in particular our main trading partner, which grows more than twice as much as we have grown, he also has an international environment which, for example, sees the price of oil lower and very significantly, and has a tourist demand as we have never had in recent years. Therefore, Mr. Prime Minister has a good heritage and a good environment and has to take an option, which is whether he wants to live on account of that heritage and on account of that environment, and let things happen, or whether on the other hand he wants to take advantage of the inheritance and take advantage of the environment to project the country in a truly lasting and solid cycle of growth for the next decades. And this issue is essential and it is not done with rhetoric or show-off, it is done with fundamental political measures, with courage and with reformism, which is what the government has missed. I ask you, Prime Minister, what was your great reform which aims to boost our economic growth for the coming years? There is a second issue, which is also important. It is that at a time when the Prime Minister celebrates, he celebrates the circumstance of leaving the excessive deficit procedure, much of his parliamentary support does not do that party. The Communist Party and the Left Block do not celebrate, do not celebrate the exit of the excessive deficit procedure. In fact, they are already planning to take advantage of the effort we have made in recent years.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u13	The gentleman wanted it to be a party! Congratulations to you!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u14	They are those who already want to take advantage of the « strike» which is now at the disposal of the government, in their understanding, to increase the expenditure, or are the others who say that blackmail is over. All right, Mr. Jerónimo de Sousa came up to say that he was going to make an untied struggle to avoid the right-wing policies of the budget!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u15	Is that what you've done? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u16	In fact, this is extraordinary! What are the right-wing policies of the budget and of this government? Are they the ones Mr Jerónimo de Sousa applauds and supports when he votes precisely for the budgets of this House of the Republic? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u17	And you're upset about it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u18	Mr Prime Minister, there are two important questions: what the Government and the Prime Minister want for the future and how they want to deal with this farce, this theatre, which involves their political support here in Parliament? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u19	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u20	Mr President, Mr Luís Montenegro, going quickly to the first question, we will not implement the recommendation because we are already doing so by ourselves with the Spanish Government. Regarding the issue of the excessive deficit procedure, it is true that the last time we left the excessive deficit procedure was June 2008. Shortly thereafter, the country was hit, Europe was hit, the world was hit by the biggest financial crisis we have faced since the 1930s and Portugal was dragged into this crisis, and again entered the excessive deficit procedure. Yesterday I had the opportunity to say that this must be the last time we had to leave the excessive deficit procedure. On the origin of this crisis, the way in which it was conducted and the way out of it, we certainly maintain the differences. We have only one point in common, which is to agree with the objective: we must reduce the deficit and, to that end, we must have the appropriate policies to do so. However, the main issue has to do with precisely the origin of this crisis. If you notice that in the last 17 years we had an average growth of 0, 2 %, alternating years of recession with years of weak growth, very different from the first 15 years of participation in the European Union. Only during the four years of the First Government of Eng. Guterres Portugal grew between 3, 5 % and 4, 8 %. What has happened since then is that our economy has had difficulty adjusting to a triple competitive shock that the euro, enlargement and opening up global markets have placed on our economy. Debt and deficit are not the cause of the crisis, they are one of the results of this fundamental crisis. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And for us to be able to respond, in a sustainable and lasting way, to this problem, in fact, we have to make reforms. But I do not know what reforms you want to make today. I know that with the reforms they have made they have not achieved the desired results. [[PSD protests.]] We can discuss, in the world of hypotheses, whether, by pursuing the same path, they have achieved the same result—it is questionable. But there is one thing that is certain and indisputable: having reversed your policy with a different policy, we have achieved this result. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And what are the reforms that we are making and that are essential? It is the reforms that respond to the real structural blockades of our economy. The first is that of qualifications—and that is why from the generalization of preschool to three years, to the Qualifica Programme for Lifelong Education, we are responding to the challenge of qualifications; [[Protests from PSD Members.]] The second is that of innovation—and that is why, with the Interface Programme, we are building the bridge between the scientific system and companies, with the Industry 4.0 initiative we generalize the digitization of the business fabric. The third is the creation of qualified employment through the introduction of a digital skills qualification programme which will allow by 2020 to convert 18 000 graduates into low employability areas in the field of programming; The fourth axis concerns programmes relating to the enhancement of the territory, from sea policies to the development objectives of the border regions as a major affirmation platform in the Iberian market. The fifth axis is related to the enterprise capitalisation package for solid companies that can continue to invest, grow and continue to have more and better, more skilled jobs. The fifth is about the policy that we have adopted, from the remuneration policy, on the increase of the national minimum wage to the replacement of all social support, to make the fight against poverty a priority and the reduction of inequalities an objective. Mr President, these are the six axes of our National Reform Programme, which is not a philosophical text, but it is a strategic vision, an agenda for the next decade, which unfolds in a set of programmes and measures that are, yes, the real reforms that we consider essential in order to change the profile of our economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The honourable Member will say to me: 'but these are not the reforms I like'. It is that the reforms that you and your bank like are those reforms that are part of that cartilage that led the country to the impasse: more changes in labour law to increase precariousness and collective impoverishment. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests,]] Mr President, there is one thing that is clear and it is essential to assume once and for all: our development model does not go through collective impoverishment, but rather invests in qualification and innovation as drivers of growth. This is the big difference between VV. Ex. us, and the politics we're following. That is why we are having results, not only in the proper implementation of the budget, but above all in a sustainable and structural growth of the economy, investment and job creation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u21	Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u22	Mr President, Prime Minister, we have in fact a divergence that is insurmountable. You alluded to a cartilage and then I will use it to distribute to you what is truly the Bible of socialist austerity, before the rescue and before the Economic and Financial Assistance Programme. To remind you of the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 101 -A / 2010, published on December 27, 2010, which is a good map to be inspired by the analysis of the country's social and economic evolution. in it will be able to find the decreases in social benefits; will be able to find the reduction in remuneration in the Public Administration ; will be able to find the reduction of 5000 teachers, soon in the school year 2010 / 2011 ; will be able to find the decrease in family allowance values ; will be able to find the non-updating of the values of other social allowances ; will find, Mr. Prime Minister, all very well structured, calendarized and quantified. This is the Bible of socialist austerity,... [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] ... the one who brought the troika to us and the one who forced us to a recovery program that, despite the difficulty in preparing the exit of the excessive deficit procedure, but before that, preparing the exit of the assistance programme, left him a basis, an inheritance from which you still live today. It was the country growing economically—and it grew more in 2015 than in 2016—and unemployment decreased more in 2015 than in 2016—and the economy prepared to be more competitive and thus generate more growth and more employment. Mr Prime Minister, I did not want to end the debate without asking you any other questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u23	Mr President, there is little time available.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u24	Mr. Prime Minister likes to announce, with great pump and circumstances, several of his decisions or intentions. I would like to ask you very quickly about the process of selling the New Bank, where are we? When will it be finished? As for the process of monitoring and implementing the solution for the injured of the Espírito Santo Group, will we always have the first instalment paid in June or July?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u25	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u26	Will the State offer guarantee for the establishment of the Fund? With regard to bad credit, in one of the last debates — in the previous debate — Mr Prime Minister said to me: « do not lose due delay». I ask you: where is the solution for bad credit? Is it the tax credit for billions of banks that the State Secretary for Tax Affairs has come to Parliament to confirm? Is that it, Prime Minister? Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u27	Thank you very much, Mr Luís Montenegro, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u28	And now, even to finish, I'm asking one last question.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u29	Mr President, you have already exceeded your time in almost 2 minutes, but continue.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u30	Since he initiated the procedures for the integration of thousands of precariouss in the Public Administration, Prime Minister, he noted that in the first three months of this year there was an increase in the hiring of precariouss for the Public Administration?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u31	Mr. Deputies, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u32	at the same time that he wants to integrate those who come from behind, he added more 3900 people, precarious, in the Public Administration. Why, Prime Minister? Where is your consistency? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u33	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u34	Mr. President, I see that Mr. Luís Montenegro has run out of time and has spent his time getting out of 2010 and approaching 2017. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But we understand: in 2012 Portugal decreased by 4 % of the Product; in 2013 Portugal decreased by 1 % of the Product; in 2014 it decreased by 0, 9 %; in 2015, the year they so much like to talk—let me anticipate - Mrs Assunção Cristas -... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Assumption Crystal.]] ... while, from the second quarter of 2015 to the first quarter of 2017, the euro area declined from 2 % to 1, 7 %, Portugal, which was growing 1, 7 %, slowed down throughout 2015 until reaching 0, 9 % and then accelerated from 0, 9 % to 2, 8 % at the end of this quarter. ... and then from 2016 accelerated by 0, 9 % for a growth of 2, 8 % at the end of this quarter. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, Mr. Member, we do not live from income, nor from inheritance, we invest the inheritance and we are generating income for the country. That's what we're doing. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In fact, you well know that we did not continue, because it spent a whole year here saying that, with the reversals we had adopted, we would not only destroy what they had done as to fail all the objectives, that there was cataclysm and even the devil would come there! It happens, Mr President, that we, in fact, reverse your policy, reverse your measures and instead the devil, leave the excessive deficit procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u35	It's paradise!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u36	I don't think it's paradise, but surely it's not hell, sir. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We have, indeed, to give sustainability to this change and this sustainability requires a great deal of rigour in budgetary implementation so that we do not lose what we achieved, because the most important thing we achieved yesterday was the reputational gain and the sign of confidence in the future of our economy. We need this trust not only to reduce the interest rate we pay but also to keep investors increasing their investment. The difference is that in 2015 gross fixed capital formation was 1, 7 %; last year gross fixed capital formation was 6, 3 %. And why? Because we are unlocking the implementation of Community funds, because we have returned confidence to economic agents, because we have been able to attract foreign investment, because we have been able to stabilize the financial system situation and because we have been able to win the successive battles with the European Union, the first to save the country from sanctions in which it would incur an unfair assessment of its government's action...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u37	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u38	... and the second because yesterday we managed to get this result. Mr President, synthetically, only to answer questions about the New Bank. According to what Mr. Governor of Banco de Portugal informed me yesterday, the next phase is expected to be completed in July. As for the damage to BES, Friday ends the deadline for all to be able to respond, whether or not to the proposal that was made, and according to the press today, the accession rate is very significant and the damage to BES...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u39	Please conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u40	...they won't have to be subsidized by each of us' pocket to be able to resort to justice, they'll have an agile system that responds...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u41	You really have to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u42	... to reduce the serious losses incurred by several entities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u43	To put questions, Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u44	Mr President, Prime Minister, first of all, I would like to tell Mr Luís Montenegro that both the Socialist Party's bench and the other benches on our left of what they remember well, the legacy left, is an open sanction process against Portugal, this process that this government has managed to avoid the good results it has had throughout 2016. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr Prime Minister, the exit of the excessive deficit procedure is an excellent result for Portugal and it is undoubtedly the recognition and validation of the current budgetary, economic and, now, structural reforms. After all, there was not only an alternative as, it seems, this alternative results and has better results than the policies previously followed. Portugal failed this year because it was ashamed, nor did it comply because it was annulled, nor did it meet because it sacrificed the legitimate aspirations of the Portuguese. Portugal complied because it dared to do different, it dared to give an alternative to what they said had no alternative and because its results justified the exit of the procedure due to excessive deficit. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The exit of the excessive deficit procedure is not a concession or generosity given to Portugal, it is the recognition of the results obtained, often this recognition is the contrast because there were many institutions and many people who said it was not possible. But this is an exit from the excessive deficit procedure which results from a recognition of the results that this government has had the courage to implement. Mr Luís Montenegro, if you wish, this is the main structural reform made by this government: refuse the path that you said was the last alternative or dare to make different and have results that you and your party have never had. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is also not a reward for good behavior, because we have shown ourselves worthy, it is a collective prize of effort and of changes undertaken that many said were impossible, wrong, counterproductive and would destroy the country's economy and trust. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Exactly the opposite happened, Mr. Members of the PSD and the CDS. Those who have been in the last year to say that this government and this majority would destroy the country, which would prevent the reduction of unemployment, which would prevent the increase in employment, which would destroy public finances, which would destroy confidence, should at least come to this point recognize that the exact opposite of everything they said has happened.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u45	It was because of the increase in consumption!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u46	It was also because of the increase in consumption! These results are not only important for Portugal, because they show that there is an alternative, that the Portuguese must not be condemned to impoverishment and that the country's competitiveness is not at the expense of the destruction of rights, the cost of the crushing of wages and the cost of dismantling the social state. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u47	Aren't you? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u48	This shows, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, on the other hand, we can belong to Europe. We want to comply with the rules, but at the same time we do not want to leave Portuguese, we do not want to abandon a project of modernization and national development and we want to keep, deepen the social state, which you say is unsustainable. This year, Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it shows exactly that it is possible. It is possible to reconcile difficult rules—and now, rules that we want to review and simplify—with compliance with these rules and continue to invest in people, their rights, their income and wager in the social state. The income of people, their rights and the social state is not an obstacle to competitiveness. Members, an essential condition for any competitiveness worthy of that name. These results are not only important for Portugal and for Portuguese people, they are also for Europe, because they do not fight populism without presenting viable alternatives to people. First of all, it is impossible to define realistic commitments, honour these commitments and deliver results and these results also have that meaning, give hope not only to Portuguese but also to Europe. European democracy will not survive as long as it is one-way democracy. It is healthy and should not be seen negatively, it should not be seen as a sin of read-Europe someone dares to do different. We have made different and we want to continue to do different because Portugal needs this, but Europe also needs this. When there are parties throughout Europe and there are voters who revolt against existing alternatives and take refuge in xenophobic and fascist movements, these people will not be won, nor will their vote be changed, if we insult them, if we call them fascist or racist. These people will be conquered if we give them an alternative, if we show them that there is no need to vote in a fascist party or in a xenophobic party, which there is no need to commit to a niilism in which they no longer believe in anything. We have given this alternative and it is an alternative that should be valued by it itself. Yes, it is possible to be in the euro area and to make policies that may at first contradict orthodoxy, but are not wrong and have the support of the citizens and have better results. Mr. Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in my opinion and in the opinion of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, the most important result of this government is to show that there is an alternative, which is worth fighting for and which can result. We therefore congratulate the Government on these results. Many people speak of Mr. Minister of Finance as if he were the sole worker of this deficit, but it is not, the workers are Mr. Prime Minister and all the ministers who are sitting on the bench of the Government, because it depends on them the execution of the Budget, the execution of the Budget does not depend only on who restricts, it also depends on who executes and therefore this is a work of the entire Government and also of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party, the CFP, the Left Block and the Greens. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u49	Oh, man! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u50	It is a work of all those who believed that it was possible to do different, that they fought for Portugal to have an alternative and that today have the result. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there is now that strange and slightly pathetic attempt to, after saying that we would put the country in the hole, when they see that we have finally left the hole in which VV. Ex. They had us in, tried to get caught in the photograph. Mr Luís Montenegro talks about fantastic and wonderful structural reforms. Mr President, many investments have been announced in Bosch, Siemens, many investments, I repeat. I would like that one day the honourable Member had time, and will certainly have, to explain to us exactly how much it is that embarrassing extraordinary hours, additional work and reducing redundancies contribute to employment growth, which is the triple of what you had in 2015. [[PSD protests.]] Mr President, it is not worth talking only about structural reforms, it is necessary to explain how, and frankly, I have some difficulty in seeing how embarrassing work can create more jobs, especially when this government has done what you said it would destroy job creation, which is to make work more expensive. When we raise the minimum wage, what did you say? « Do not do that. They're gonna break everything we're good at! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[PSD protests.]] Mr President, you have to draw conclusions from your own sentence! [[P.S.'s applause.]] It was the honourable Member and his party who defined the conditions for success of this government when they said: "If they are there, they will not have the results! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Well, we got the results. So, who has to draw conclusions is the Mrs. Members of the PSD and the CDS, not necessarily the Prime Minister and the Government and, at least, the Socialist Party's bench. Mr. Prime Minister, the exit of the excessive deficit procedure is not only a symbolic achievement, it is above all an opportunity to do more and make different. at this time, Portugal has more flexibility than it had, because the rules so determine, and can invest with some flexibility, without that counting for the goals. You can also finance structural reforms, not those you like so much. We heard Pedro Passos Coelho yesterday, without saying exactly what reform he referred to, suggesting that this government was lacking courage to reform social security. No, sir! We have reformed it in 2007 and now we are covering the 'hole' that you have left, creating jobs, increasing wages. This is the reform that social security needs. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Let's see if we understand ourselves once and for all: there is no boldness, no courage, to shame the Portuguese. The idea of reforming is to impose pain, sacrifice and create discontent is a wrong idea of reform, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. Reforming is to give the Portuguese better opportunities, to invest in the country, not to say to the Portuguese: « Your future is the past, you have to look back, because you have no right to dare to be more prosperous and more developed! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is not the reformist vision of the Socialist Party and it is certainly not the reformist vision of the Government. So, Prime Minister, I ask: how does the Government intend to take advantage of the flexibility it has gained, because it was not a gift, it was a conquest, with the exit of the excessive deficit procedure? What reforms or investments are planning to apply for this flexibility in 2018? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u51	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u52	Mr President, Mr. João Galamba, first of all, I think that, fundamentally, this result, which we have achieved, is the merit of the Portuguese, because it was the families, it was the companies... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u53	They didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u54	... that they were determined to resist, defend the country and prove that it was possible for a country to comply with its own Constitution, that it was possible to restore income, make investments and obtain good results in budgetary management. What distinguishes this government from the previous government is not the will to have good public finances. What distinguishes us is not the objective, what distinguishes us is the way to achieve this objective. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We could discuss whether, following the path that was being followed, we would have had that result. It is a hypothetical discussion, as valid as the discussion to know whether, if Lehman Brothers had not failed and had not had the 2008 crisis, the biggest growth we had in 2017 would have had continuity or would have been reversed by another factor. The truth is, and it is not hypothetical but real, is that, with the policy that we pursue, with the policy that we promise to the Portuguese and that we commit ourselves to the Left Block, the CFP and the Greens, we achieve these results. They are results that we have a growth rate that reversed the slowdown that came in mid-2015, which generated 155 000 net jobs last year. last year, unemployment did not fall due to emigration but followed an increase in the active population, an increase in private investment and an increase in our exports. When, for years, the right has argued that there was a need for competitive devaluation in order to regain competitiveness in our economy within the framework of the single currency, what it has waged was a collective impoverishment strategy. Now, this collective impoverishment strategy was translated into the brutal recession that the country suffered in 2012, and this means that this was not the way. [[Protests from PSD MP Miguel Santos.]] The path that gives sustainability and enables the European Commission to make a lasting decision on sustainability for our exit from the excessive deficit procedure is that, at the same time, we must have good budgetary management and we must also have fundamental growth today. contrary to what I often hear, this growth is not only the fruit of the conjuncture—if the joint is good, it certainly helps, but not only the fruit of the conjuncture. And the best proof is that we have come to have the different path of the euro area: while the euro zone has slowed down, we have been speeding up. But there are other important indicators: we are not only exporting how to gain market share; we have been increasing companies' investment in gross fixed capital formation; imports are increasing mainly in the components of machinery and equipment, which means that companies are investing to increase their productive capacity. That is why we cannot accept the idea that growth is only conjuncural. Some say: "Oh, but this has to do with tourism! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” It is not true, because today we have exported more goods than we have exported services. There was 17 % growth in the export of goods and 11 % growth in the export of services. Others say: "Well, even tourism has had a conjuncural growth, because there is a lot of unrest in some regions of the Middle East and North Africa! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” It is worth noting that the instability in tourism areas that offer mainly sun and beach can help the growth of the tourist offer of sun and beach, which we have in Algarve or Madeira, but it is difficult to explain the growth that we have had in tourism that lies not in these destinations but in urban destinations, such as Porto and Lisbon, and in rural destinations, such as Douro Valley, where tourism is significantly growing and is not because of the instability that exists in other regions of the world. This means that we have and must pursue this strategy and we must continue to focus on what is fundamental. The structural blockades of our economy are not resolved by a crash of impoverishment — we have experienced it and failed it. once and for all, we must concentrate on, with persistence, consistency and stability, implementing what is fundamental, i.e. solving the problem of qualifications and the lack of technological incorporation in our economic activity, having full use of the potentials of our territory, we can significantly reduce inequalities and eradicate poverty, we can capitalise our companies, so that they have good conditions to invest, and have a state that is modern, more efficient, less bureaucratic and that can ensure quality public services, which are an added value for our society, especially in the areas of education and health. This is what we have to do and we must do by quietly and decisively pursuing the policy that we have been pursuing. The success of this policy has been in the capacity that we have had to turn the page of austerity, returning income to families and reducing the tax burden on work, and at the same time having a solid fiscal consolidation that does not put us in a risk position in the face of any external shock, which we cannot foresee, but no one can guarantee that one day cannot happen. If that happens at that time, we must be in better condition than we were in 2008 and that is why we must continue this prudent and balanced strategy to move forward safely. If we continue to do so, we will strengthen our external trust, we will strengthen the confidence of investors and the confidence of citizens, who can face their future calmly. Young people may stop thinking about having to go out there to find good job opportunities, families can be confident that it is worth investing in their children's education, because this will give them better opportunities for the future, our elderly people can end the anxiety they have experienced in recent years, because they will have a pension system that ensures them a decent life. If we continue this way, we will return trust to those who work, combat precariousness and return dignity to working relationships. This is where we need to focus so that the country is confident about its future. The reconstruction of trust is the key, and that's what we did. We have signed a contract of trust with the knowledge production system, universities and polytechnics, because without stability and without predictability they cannot develop their scientific plans. We return trust to companies to be able to invest and believe that it is incorporating and hiring better, more qualified, and working closer with universities and the policies that can add value to the products and services that they can develop. Now, this strategy is part of the National Reform Programme. The margin we have now gained is narrow and still depends on a set of statistical factors that we can benefit only in 2018. We can only benefit from structural reforms when we reduce our distance from the medium-term objective, and this is expected to happen for the year. We can only benefit from flexibility in investment when we are not growing above the growth potential. These two conditions are not yet fully verified. What we have to have is the determination to achieve them and, above all, a good selectivity of how we want to use them.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u55	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u56	I shall now conclude, Mr President. Where we have to use these are the reforms provided for in the National Reform Programme — qualification, innovation, combating poverty and inequality, corporate capitalisation, enhancement of the territory, modernisation of the Public Administration. This is where we have to invest the margin that we can have with the confirmation of the exit of the excessive deficit procedure and with the verification of the specific conditions that allow the use of each of these resources. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u57	To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Catarina Martins.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u58	Mr President, Prime Minister, we remember that the right sent the youngest to emigrate, called the oldest "grey plague" and assured the country and the world that Portugal was made to be a poor country. Fortunately, there was a whole country that did not resign, which did not accept impoverishment as a single rule and that required a change. Today, we miss the 2010 PSD, and miss the time when the right party made agreements with the Socialist Party of austerity packages to impoverish the country. Well, the country has changed, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today there is a left-wing agreement, an agreement to stop impoverishment. This is the difference, it is the responsibility and it is also the left-wing force in this Parliament. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr. Prime Minister, we know how difficult all the steps are to stop poverty in the country, we know how Europe has attacked each of these steps. Today, that these steps are true, is the moment of less European blackmail and more courage for the steps that can take Portugal from impoverishment. I have now heard Mr Galamba say, and well, that structural reforms cannot mean lowering labour costs, and he pointed his finger to the PSD and CDS for taking steps to lower the costs of additional work and compensation or redundancies. Well, the Left Block presented, in the Assembly of the Republic, draft laws aimed at revoking these laws, which cut wages to so many people and made wages today, on average, 30% below what they were.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u60	Therefore, if the Socialist Party and if the Government take lessons that these steps for valuing work are the right ones, then this is the time to value those who live from their work and to revoke the changes of work, which have paid so many people in this country. We're here to make that way. [[Congratulations from BE.]] We do not forget that there are 2, 6 million people living in poverty in Portugal and that, when the country can celebrate better economic data, it is with these people that the country has to correct the accounts. Those who have been sacrificed on the right must now have an answer to the concrete conditions of their lives, with more employment, with more wages, with more public services, with more fiscal justice. This is the way we have and the responsibility we have. It is not lacking to celebrate what the right sees; what the right can see on the left, yes, is the requirement for a fairer country, because we know of so much that it is still about to do.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u62	Bad conscience!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u63	Mr Prime Minister, I have also noted the words of Mr Luís Montenegro on the precariousness of public service. The Left Block, which has brought this issue so many times to Parliament — it is not from now on that it has done so in the previous government, I do not know if you heard at the time, now it has an agreement, which is important, for a process that is beginning and that it is to bind precariousness to the Public Administration. Much is to be done, the process is at the beginning, we will follow it very closely, hoping that it is fair, fast and fair to the workers that the country needs and that they deserve to be respected. But, Prime Minister, in this process there is an unfair part of exclusion that the right does not speak because it is complicit in this exclusion, I mean the teachers hired.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u64	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u65	in this school year there were more than 8,000 teachers who were working as precarious throughout the year with full hours. In fact, the State has made more than 35 000 placements during the school year for a number of hired teachers, who constitute permanent needs of the system, which will range from 15 000 to 20 000. The linkage of teachers now planned, little more than 3000, is very little. At this rate it is not possible even throughout the legislature to do justice to hired teachers, and that is not acceptable. Schools deserve more, teachers deserve more. Therefore, Prime Minister, I wonder whether the Government is available for a binding process that allows for justice to be done for these thousands of teachers hired and not to remain by the symbolic 3400. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u66	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u67	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, yes, one of the great gains of the political change we brought together in the country, after the 2015 elections, was the fact that we put an end to the war between the Portuguese and that the former Government systematically fueled, from the outset, a war between generations, based on the selfishness that the future of our children involved the present sacrifice of their grandparents, that some should emigrate and the others should be condemned to permanent concern over what awaited them the next day.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u68	Since you have nothing to say, always come with the same conversation!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u69	It was to put an end to this climate that allowed us to create a climate of confidence and only with this climate of confidence is that we have managed to reverse the slowdown path of our economy, that we have grown, that we have come to create 155 000 jobs and to pursue a path of improved income. I think it is clear to all Portuguese today — until it is clear to the PSD’s own bench — which is not impoverishing, which is not at the expense of low wages that we gain competitiveness. on the contrary, we need to pursue a strategy of valuing work if we want to establish and attract more and more qualified frameworks that effectively improve the quality of the products and services provided by companies. It is obvious that this is about valuing itself, but it is also in the interests of the economy itself. And that is also why we have to fight precariousness, because precarious workers are not workers who contribute positively to improving the productivity of the company. What improves the productivity of the company is the worker who can benefit the company with all its knowledge, it is the worker who can be valued professionally, who can benefit from training and thus contribute to better companies and also a better economy. A better economy is not a poor economy, it is an economy that generates more and better jobs and greater shared prosperity for all of us. That is why we need to pursue the strategy of increasing the national minimum wage. That is why it is necessary to unlock collective bargaining. We see in particular that the social partners, when they have the conditions to see collective bargaining unlocked, respond positively. We have also seen it in the footwear agreement, where not only the minimum wage was significantly above the national minimum wage, as for the first time in a sector with great labour intensity, there was a historic agreement to ensure equal wages between men and women. That is why it is necessary to continue and that is why the Government has changed the extension door approval mechanism to make it faster and to increase the number of workers covered by collective labour regulation instruments. The fight against precariousness also goes through public service, not only through the general process but also through the specific process that has been adopted with regard to teachers. The teachers are not excluded; what was an anticipation in a specific process that, for the time being, allowed to link 3019 teachers. at the end of May, when the evaluation of needs is completed, we will have a new process of linking teachers. Now, I would like to be clear not to generate unfounded expectations: we must ensure the effective stability of the teaching body. There is no real reason for this to be the only professional class that permanently lives in the uncertainty of knowing that vacancies will exist, in which school they will exist, in which region of the country they will have to work. We must achieve a global change in the process of hiring teachers to give them effective stability, because we cannot also consider and it is not acceptable, for the State or for themselves, that, for dozens of years, there are people who every year are called to do a few hours, a few days, a few months, some periods... Of course there will always be need for coverage of strikes, for bass or for any other reason, but the central core of the teaching body must have stability and should have lasting stability in the place where it provides service. It is essential for the life of teachers and their families, but also for the improvement of the quality of the educational process, because more stability of the teaching body means more quality of teaching taught in each of the schools and greater educational success for children. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u70	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u71	Mr President, Prime Minister, records the convergence from the point of view of the diagnosis of the teachers hired and the need to change this framework. I remember that we are committed to reducing the number of students per class, that the school has to adapt to an increasingly demanding environment and to the transformations of the era in which we live and this requires more teachers, more follow-up and not less, and all data indicate that in the next decade 40 000 teachers will retire because the teaching body is aging, so Portugal needs more teachers and not less. And I repeat: the binding process that is now under way only reaches 3400 of the 15 000 to 20 000 teachers hired in the situation that he described so well and that they need to have an answer. The challenge we have left is that we can, until 31 October, date on which we are committed to having ready the law of competitions of the remaining public administration precariouss, also have an answer to how these teachers will be linked in good time, to the legislature. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr. Prime Minister, I wanted to bring you another problem. Mr. Prime Minister has already spoken about PT today and we remember how PSD and CDS let PT be defeated at Altice. Here, in a fortnight debate, I spoke on this matter to Pedro Passos Coelho, at the time of Prime Minister. Now, Mr Prime Minister tells us that he does not accept an PT restructuring process with the 3000 redundancies that have been announced. All right! I would now like to speak to you about Efacec, which is a company that is in similar conditions, even if it is less the workers. It's about 500 workers. But the truth is that Efacec has already started the process, asking the guardianship of the office to be able to fire nearly 500 workers, this at the same time that it is hiring precarious workers, in a year in which it has profits, i.e. it is a company that is recovering. In fact, what this company wants to do is to use a restructuring programme, in legislation that has been misused by the PSD and CDS, to fire workers, replace them with precarious workers who do not respect rights and put social bills in public accounts. What I wanted was the government's commitment that it will not accept these restructurings that offend those who work and weigh on social security accounts. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr. Prime Minister, very briefly, one last question, although I know that my time is running out. I would like to say that at the summit with the Spanish State it is not possible not to speak of Almaraz, it is not possible not to speak of the environmental damage, the uranium mine, it is not acceptable for Spain to want to prolong the life of a nuclear power plant and have omitted the public conclusions that it has never studied the impact...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u72	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u73	...an accident at a nuclear power station that is already obsolete. What Spain is doing is not only a danger from the energy and security point of view but also a lack of respect for the neighbouring country which cannot pass without a strong note from the Portuguese Government, demanding the closure of Almaraz at the next summit. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u74	To answer, you have the floor, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u75	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, thank you very much for your questions. Today we have the opposite problem: in the last debate I stopped answering a question for lack of time and now I will have time for the two answers. On Efacec I took note of your question but I cannot answer it. I will talk to the Minister of Labour about what's going on, and then I will give you information. On the summit, I want to tell you that the Spanish Luso Summit is not the only moment of relationship between the Portuguese Government and the Spanish Government. This summit has a specific theme, which is the subject we are going to address, and there are other issues that are usually discussed between the Portuguese Government and the Spanish Government and we do so regularly, either through our ambassadors or directly from the members of the Government. Regarding the set of issues mentioned here, from the Retortillo mines to the future of the Almaraz Central and the warehouse of nuclear waste, either I myself have dealt several times with the President of the Spanish Government, Rajoy, or the Minister for the Environment has spoken several times with the Spanish Minister for the Environment and Agriculture, or even today the Minister for Foreign Affairs has had a contact with his Spanish counterpart. So we do not have to wait for the summit to be dealt with. We know that we have to deal with, however, with decisions that we have made and that are sovereign in Portugal as the other countries, which have sovereignty, also have sovereign decisions to make. What is proper among neighbors, friends, allies is to seek to agree on their positions and have a mutual attitude of respect. When we understand that it was not so we took the necessary measure; the Spanish Government has made the information available, it has been put in public consultation—and I must say that I was very surprised that, after several weeks of public consultation, there were only nine participations in this public consultation—there was a technical report which announced a set of recommendations, these recommendations were transmitted to Spain, Spain accepted the recommendations and the Spanish Nuclear Security Council, which is an independent entity, took responsibility for ensuring compliance with these recommendations as a whole.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u76	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u77	So that's how we're gonna do it. Now, the theme of the Summit is focused on a challenge that is structural for both Portugal and Spain. We must make our border regions the axis and center of the Iberian market of 60 million inhabitants. We can't keep looking inside...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u78	You must conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u79	... as being the back of the coast.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u80	The nuclear waste!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u81	on the contrary, the interior must be the great affirmation platform of our economy throughout the Iberian market. We must work together and together in the European Union, especially in the post-2020 logic, to make all these regions, which are the poorest of the Iberian Peninsula, of the most developed, because we can thus help to grow our economy, create jobs, improve territorial cohesion and fight poverty in the interior. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u82	Now the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP has the floor of Mrs Cristian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u83	Mr President, Prime Minister, I would like to begin by reiterateing that the CDS shares the joy of seeing the efforts of all Portuguese people recognised by the European Commission with the cancellation of the excessive deficit procedure.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u84	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u85	It was eight long years of excessive deficit procedure, and I can tell you that I took part with pride in a government which, since the first day, worked hard to remove Portugal from the grip in which it was, and the tightening that was expressed in the excessive deficit procedure, but that was only the envelope, because the issues were much more fundamental, as Mr. Prime Minister here today acknowledged. The current government has come to an end, and well, of this case, on our part, as I have also had the opportunity to say in this House and publicly, later than early. We would like to have seen the government hit on this result a year ago, it had the opportunity to do so, but what matters most at this time is to do everything to, in fact, never return to this procedure due to excessive deficit and take advantage of this opportunity, which is truly an opportunity, to join the rest of the international environment, to intensify efforts, efforts in the growth of the economy in a lasting way, efforts to reduce debt, to create jobs, to find the appropriate level of public services, education and transport security, making realistic budgets, Mr. Prime Minister,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u86	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u87	... and not budgets that live in captivitys, captivitys of 30 %, that Mr. Prime Minister says they are good but I don't think they are good. It is therefore necessary to have realistic budgets that do not live from gross cuts in public investment. But, Prime Minister, I also have positive data from the economy and I would like you to confirm here very clearly today a set of findings which, I believe, derive from these same data from economic growth. We always said that it was possible to grow and at the same time ensure that there was better health in public accounts. Well, Mr. João Galamba is not here, but I have often heard him say that it was impossible to meet the deficit and grow. So, the first question is: do you recognize today that it is compatible, after all, to grow and to reduce our deficit? Second question: it is possible to grow without renegotiating debt. We have heard for a long time the PCP, the BE and the Socialist Party, many comrades of the Socialist Party,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u88	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u89	... they said it was impossible to grow without releasing the country from debt and renegotiating the debt. The data show that we grew up without renegotiating the debt. Does the Prime Minister recognize that or not? Third question: does the Prime Minister recognise that it is possible to increase and reduce unemployment by maintaining the labour reform that was done by the previous Government? To such reform that would destroy jobs, which would lead the country to the hole?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u90	You don't think so?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u91	After all, it is there and it was possible to reduce unemployment. Finally, he acknowledged that this growth was made mainly on behalf of exports and the private investment account. Exports where tourism is included but not only exports which, according to the Socialist Party, were unable to guarantee a sustainable path of growth. In fact, what we've always heard was that exports would define, that this wasn't going there that way and so we either went for private consumption...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u92	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u93	...or the thing wasn't running, or we were going for public investment or the thing had no sustainability. The truth — that is what we see today — is that we have a model of exports and private investment that has proved and a model of private consumption and public investment, which has had the biggest cut we have in history, which has not yet proved anything. I wanted you to comment on all this. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u94	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u95	Mr President, Mrs Cristas, thank you very much. First, a little correction: I beat us last year and beat us all year long to have this result, so we had it; if we hadn't beaten ourselves, then we would have failed the result, like others failed before us. [[P.S.'s applause.]] You cannot at the same time say that you are very proud to have been part of the government and then talk about the realistic budgets of others,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u96	Transparent!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u97	...because I remember that the Government that you were part of, in four years, presented eight budgets, each year presented amending budgets...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u98	12 Budgets!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u99	It was 12!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u100	Yes, 12 budgets! There were 12 budgets and for once they were not able to meet the budgeted results. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, in terms of realism, I hope that we will be able to understand, and as for your obsession that you are always talking about the past, which is indeed an extraordinary thing. Now, I appreciate the opportunity to clarify several confusions here. First confusion: I don't think you've heard anyone say — I'm sure you didn't hear me — that there was a contradiction between solid finances and growth. on the contrary, I have many written texts claiming that consolidation of public finances helps growth, such as growth helps to consolidate public finances. I am very proud to have been part of the government that has guaranteed to reduce the deficit below 3% so that we can have joined the euro, and I am very proud, too, to have been part of the government that took Portugal out of the excessive deficit procedure in 2008 and I am very proud to be Prime Minister of a Government when Portugal comes out of the excessive deficit procedure. Yes, I am very proud of all these results. [[P.S.'s applause.]] There is also no contradiction, contrary to what it maintains, that exports are necessary for growth and that income replacement must also be given priority. What is shown is that, contrary to what the right was saying, what you were saying and what you really think, it is not necessary to impoverish and have a low-wage policy for our companies to be competitive. What we said last year when we increased the national minimum wage was that, by increasing the national minimum wage, we were going to undermine the competitiveness of companies because companies were unable to export with such significant increases in the national minimum wage. Now, what we have demonstrated is that the replacement of income is essential for confidence, that confidence is essential for investment and that there is only investment we have increased exports with quality, increasing and gaining market share. There is therefore no contradiction between this and that. Tell me there was insufficient public investment. Of course, there was insufficient public investment. We were pleased that there had been more, but you know well that public investment in Portugal in the budgetary cycle in which we are located will, above all, be based on Community funding and that unfortunately, with the exception of what happened in the areas of its responsibility, with regard to the other Community funds we were in a prehistoric state, we had wasted two years and we needed a great deal of effort to launch Community funds at cross-speed. That is why, this year, we are increasing public investment by 20 % and in the first quarter of this year public investment rose by 25 % over the first quarter of last year. Yes, we are now doing what we liked to have done last year, but we couldn't do it because we didn't have the conditions for it. This year we are doing it and we will continue. Therefore, exports, private investment, public investment, improved family income, reduced household and business indebtedness are essential conditions for continuing to sustain healthy growth, not on the basis of debt but on the basis of income, because that is how we will have sustainable and lasting growth, compatible with good consolidation of public finances. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u101	Mrs. Christian Assumption has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u102	Mr President, Prime Minister, I have to remember a few things because Mr Prime Minister says, referring to the previous government, that «the reforms they have made have not achieved results». Therefore, I must remind you that we must recall the story again, and let me tell you, Prime Minister, that the former government inherited a deficit of 11, 2 % and left a legacy without Banif, of 2, 98 % — plus eight percentage points!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u103	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u104	Its government, and well, has decreased by one percentage point, only one percentage point. Therefore, as to whether or not to achieve the objectives, I believe that we are very much discussed, Prime Minister. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Let me tell you something else about unemployment.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u105	That you created!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u106	We left unemployment slightly below what we had received, which, after reaching a peak of 17, 5 %, reached 11, 2 %. Isn't this achieving a result? Is this not achieving the objectives? I'm sorry, but all this has to be remembered because, in fact, the memory on this side is very short. And it is so short, Mr. Prime Minister, that you forgot about 2009. He spoke of pride in 2007, spoke of pride in 2008, but did not speak of pride in 2009. He still spoke of the pride of 2017 but did not speak of the pride of 2009. After all, what happened in 2009? After all, what happened in 2010, Prime Minister? You know, on this side, that everyone sitting on this bench is proud to have belonged to the group of those who have helped, from the first to the last day, the country leaving the procedure due to excessive deficit.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u107	You must be kidding me! See the CDS proposals in 2009 and 2010!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u108	Already from this bench Mr. Prime Minister, you can't say the same thing. Not even that one! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u109	We will recover the CDS proposals from 2008, 2009 and 2010...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u110	I can even tell you what the number of coincidences is between your government, between ministers, state secretaries and advisors, and what Mr. José Socrates' government was the wrongful one: 40%. It was only 40% coincidence! So there many put the country in the hole, on this side they all helped to pull it out. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Let me finish, Mr. Prime Minister, by saying one thing: as for State budgets, there are those who prefer transparency and there are those who prefer, as is good socialist habit, to hide things. Who wants transparency presents Reformary budgets, who wants to hide things gets 30% captivating to say that it has no rectifications... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u111	...but in the end, what executes is quite different from what you proposed at the beginning. [[CDS-PP applause.]] Therefore, on this matter too, there is no lesson to be learned from your Government, Prime Minister. In conclusion, and because there is one subject on which I cannot stop speaking today, I would like to ask, Prime Minister, about Venezuela. It is because we are very concerned and I know that the Minister for Foreign Affairs is there too, and he has already spoken about it today. I have received letters to signal the concern, the abandonment that people feel by the Portuguese Government and what I am interested in asking today is essentially this: are you doing all the possible efforts? Is there, or is it not, already prepared or in preparation, and if so to what degree of preparation, an evacuation plan in case it is necessary to bring all or much of the 400 000 Portuguese citizens who are currently suffering a great deal in Venezuela? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u112	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u113	Mr President, Mrs Cristas, with regard to Venezuela, Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs has already had the opportunity to answer all the questions he has put at the closed door in the Commission — indeed, at the request of the CDS — which is where and under the conditions under which these questions must be answered. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u114	I'm sorry I heard this!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u115	Madam Member, frankly, I am in government to deal with the present and the future and not to discuss the past. But I am glad you remembered the year 2009 because I am also very proud of what I was doing in 2009. Do you know what I was doing in 2009?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u116	I know very well, I know!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u117	It was reducing by 40 % the debt of the City Council of Lisbon, which had inherited... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... after a well-known supporter had led to such a crisis that it led to the dissolution and that, for the first and only time in the 43 years of the history of democracy, there were elections in advance in a chamber due to financial, political and unsustainability of its operation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u118	You look so good that you don't answer! Don't go that way!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u119	I am also very proud of what I was doing in 2009. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mrs. Deputy, I just wanted to leave you one last note. Captives allow balanced and prudent management based on the capacity of budgetary implementation; corrections result from unwise management,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u120	Transparency!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u121	... which leads to an increase in expenditure above what was authorized by Parliament and therefore it is necessary to return to Parliament to set a new ceiling for expenditure. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u122	Transparency!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u123	We, with the captivating, controlled the expenditure; VV. For example, they never managed to control it, so they had to have 12 budgets and yet they never managed to fulfill any. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u124	Transparency! Transparency is what's called it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u125	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor to put questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u126	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, who, like us, has fought so many times almost alone against an intolerable and arbitrary position such as that of the excessive deficit procedure which has been imposed on the country by the European Union and is still fighting, so that the country can free itself from the constraints to which they submit it can only point out any step taken in that direction as a necessity. We now have a dispute over who should reap the prizes, as we have seen in recent days about the country's growth of 2, 8 % in the first quarter of the year. But it is necessary to say, for those who are seeking so much to reap advantages and do not spare themselves in congratulations, three things: first of all, with regard to the excessive deficit procedure, we are leaving a procedure in which we should never have entered.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u127	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u128	The fact that the deficit has taken on a large scale has its origin is a policy that has led to the degradation of the national production apparatus, economic regression and trade balance, with consequences for increasing public debt and subjecting to speculative interest, but also to the transformation of large deficits of millions of euros channelled from the state to the bank, covering ruinous businesses of the same private bank. And that policy is responsible. The blame should not die single. But to that end, Mr Luís Montenegro does not boast that the economy has grown in 2015. It didn't happen for your credit. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u129	It happened because the Constitutional Court considered the cuts in holiday and Christmas allowances unconstitutional, unemployment allowance, sickness benefit,... [[PCP, P.S. and Greens applauded.]] ...and the question of survival pensions, forcing them to return to the workers and people what had been looted to them during that time. [[PCP applause.]] Secondly, after all, the country was not condemned to the policy of cuts and more cuts and systematic exploitation and impoverishment and that the replacement of income and rights was not the way to the disaster that the parties defeated in October 2015 prophesied. We said that it was necessary to restore income and rights to start the recovery of the economy and grow the country, and the reality is proving it there. We said that it was not cutting wages, reforms and rights that the country was advancing and today we see how true this was.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u130	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u131	Thirdly, the problems facing the country are far from solved and it is necessary to continue the path of the replacement of incomes and rights and the lifting of the living conditions of the people. We must recognise that the steps taken are still short; that the serious problem of unemployment remains at unacceptable levels; that there is still an unfair distribution of wealth and 2, 6 million Portuguese continue to be at the threshold of poverty; that there is still a low investment in infrastructure and in support of the development of productive sectors; that there are still strong shortages in public services and in the social functions of the State; that there is a need for advances in combating this scourge that is precarious, since now, accelerating the implementation of measures that are planned in the State budget for the current year, of measures to strengthen the SNS (National Health Service) at the level of human and technical resources, solving the fair aspirations of doctors, nurses and other health professionals and the conditions that people are demanding, measures that overcome the needs of operational assistants in schools and that, for example, respond to the problem of reducing the price of botija, which continues to be postponed. Mr Prime Minister, I ask you one question: as our people say, « warheads and chicken broths have never harmed anyone», and, of course, about 1,000 workers have left PT, tell us whether the government undertakes not to authorize this social crime that the new owners of PT want to commit. They call them « redundancies », they disguise themselves calling them « forced terminations », we know this semantic maneuver which for decades aimed at winding up jobs by companies. Whether they are fired or are called « rescisions », Mr Prime Minister, it is certain that the government will not devalue this situation. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u132	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u133	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, recently I had the opportunity to answer the question about PT. We have no such request and have even heard that this would have been denied, but in any case we will not authorize any such dismissal in the PT because we do not understand that any kind of restructuring of this nature is justified in the PT. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So we won't authorize it. We accompany the need to strengthen our public services and, in particular, the National Health Service, which has been very impoverished over the past four years. Therefore, last year, a very important effort has already been made to strengthen human resources in the National Health Service, of more than 4000 people, among doctors, nurses and diagnostic technicians, and an increase of more 3408 people is planned for this year: 1036 doctors, 1654 nurses and 718 other professionals. Let's make that reinforcement, because it's necessary. Ask me if that's enough. Indeed, it is not, and we must go on, doing as we have done so far: with safe and balanced steps, so as not to lose again what we have already achieved and we will not give the opportunity for the reversal of what has been conquered. [[Applause PS.]] Mr President, and rightly so, the excessive deficit procedure is an important step but does not solve all the problems. Of course not! That was, in fact, what I have been trying to say recently and I would like to insist on this point: contrary to what I have often said to the right, the cause of our crisis was not in public finances. Our public finances were also a consequence of a structural problem in our economy. The honourable Member is calling for the destruction of our productive equipment, our production capacity, which I usually call for structural blockades of our economy. But I believe that we are talking about the same thing, which is the need to restore the capacity of our economy, to create jobs, to produce and distribute wealth, to actually create an economy that is competitive, but based on solidarity and shared property in a just manner between those who work and those who invest. It is in this sense that we must continue our strategy of the National Reform Programme. Relations with the European Union are not always easy, but it is essential, also in the European Union, to halt this fight and there are steps which, in spite of everything, are being taken. If you notice the recommendations made this year on the increase in the national minimum wage, you will find that they are very different from those made two years ago. Two years ago, it was said that it was necessary to reduce labour costs and that there was a serious risk with the updating of the national minimum wage. Yesterday, there has already been an acknowledgement that the updating of the national minimum wage has not had a negative impact on the labour market and it has only been pointed out that it can have negative consequences on the employability of people with the lowest level of qualification. Now, the tone is different, indeed, it is not, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, your tone, it is not even my tone, it is not what we would write, but it is, in spite of everything, progress towards what they wrote two years ago. This means that it is not abandoning the struggle in Europe that we have changed Europe. It is also fighting in Europe that we will help it change and, by changing Europe, we will help ourselves to achieve a better Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u134	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u135	Mr President, Prime Minister, with regard to those recommendations that are public, be careful! There are fundamental reasons why we should be concerned — regardless of whether they have lightened the tone — if they are implemented, because they are recommendations that in practice become threats, particularly to workers' rights. It's just the note. But we are concerned, and that is why we insist on the question regarding PT because, in addition to the destruction of jobs, the increase in unemployment, the destruction of family life, this situation has deeply negative implications, especially in social security. Mr. Prime Minister, in relation to social security, in addition to concerns about the lack of staff in the services, it was important to give a better and more effective response to the provision of support to the unemployed. Of course, it is not justified to cut 10 % of the amount of unemployment benefit, which we need to revoke, as we need to consider extending and strengthening the financing of social security, to ensure another response and coverage to social problems, with various measures, including complementing the current system for calculating corporate contributions, based on remuneration, with another system based on net wealth created by these companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u136	I would ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u137	I will finish, Mr. President. These social issues, which are of great importance and are of great importance today, will certainly make part of the government's concern. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u138	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u139	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, I would like to accompany you, of course, in the need to strengthen the contribution base of social security and, in particular, to diversify sources of social security financing. It is one of the issues contained in the Government's programme and also in our joint positions. We have already taken a few steps and we must continue to do so. We must also seek to improve living conditions and the conditions of different social benefits. That is why we are going, from 1 June, to partially reverse the cuts in unemployment benefit, with the introduction of a standard-worker, so that this court will never put anyone below the threshold of the social support indicator. It is a path that we have to take, as it has indeed happened in relation to the different social benefits. As we have done in the social income of inclusion, in the solidarity supplement for the elderly, in the family allowance, in the extraordinary increase in pensions, in wages, we also have to do with unemployment benefit. It is a step that will come into force on 1 June, with the introduction of a standard-work for that court, which is a partial reversal, of course, of that 10 % cut in unemployment benefit. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u140	Mr André Silva of the NAP now has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u141	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is estimated that there are about 600 000 people with rare diseases in Portugal. Currently, the centralization of competences for diagnosis in hospitals and the high complexity of these diseases lead to delays and inefficiencies in obtaining diagnoses, with consequences on the level of degradation of people's health and impact on the financial unsustainability of the National Health Service, resulting from inefficiencies in the diagnosis. Mr. Prime Minister, a quarter of the users wait for the definitive diagnosis between 5 and 30 years after the onset of the first symptoms. On the other hand, the National Association of Mental and Rare Weaknesses, better known as « Rare», has an international reference centre in this area, unique in the world, offering an innovative response and specialized services mostly dedicated to the diagnosis, intervention and follow-up of patients with rare and unknown pathology. This Association has already repeatedly proposed to the Government the provision of reference consultations for rare and unknown diseases, in a logic of complementarity with the National Health Service. So, Prime Minister, within the framework of the Integrated Strategy for Rare Diseases and the legal possibility that provides for a space for complementary action between institutions of the National Health Service and other organizations, I ask: Is there an opening of the Government for a process of contractualization with the Rare Specialization Consultations for patients with rare and unknown disease? Is there an opening of the government to improve access to health for these most vulnerable citizens in the next State budget?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u142	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u143	Mr President, Mr André Silva, the Government is not only open as it has an interest and therefore the Ministry of Health has already met with the Very Rare and has received the proposal of this Association, and is currently raising the diagnostic needs in the context of rare diseases, and conducting the efficiency study on the proposal presented to it, with a view to assessing the usefulness of the proposed contractualization. It is necessary to conclude this analysis so that the Ministry can give a final answer. thus, there is not only openness as interest, concrete, in fact, in the study that the proposal is worth, and, according to the analysis that is made, we will give the final answer about this need we have more efficient mechanisms to be able to make the diagnosis and treatment of rare or unknown diseases. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u144	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the 15-year debate with Mr Prime Minister. We now proceed to vote No 316 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemning and weighing the attack on Manchester ( President of RA, PSD, PCP, PAN, BE, The Greens, CDS-PP and PS ). I would like to ask Mrs Idália to read this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u145	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote of condemnation and regret is as follows: « Terror struck last night the British city of Manchester, second city of England, known for its strong tradition in popular music. It was precisely in a large concert room, Manchester Arena, where the artist Ariana Grande, who had the terrorist attack, worked. Ariana Grande became ‘wordless’, and the whole world too. The explosions caused 22 deaths and 59 injuries, including children and young people. When it was thought that the barbershop could no longer surprise us, here is another step of inhumanity in the recent succession of infamous attacks. If youth is life and freedom, terror is death and cowardice. The duty of open societies is to prevent and combat without hesitation such acts, preserving their way of life and the primacy of law. When death comes to the streets, the street rises in the name of freedom! Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its most vehement condemnation of yesterday's attack, conveying its greatest sense of regret to the families and friends of the victims and their solidarity with the authorities and the British people. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-05-23.u146	We shall proceed to the vote on the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the vote we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have come to the end of our work. The next plenary meeting will take place tomorrow, beginning at 3 p.m., and the next item will be the debate on Question No 10 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — On general policy focused on the conditions for the development of national production ( CFP ) and, from point two, without time for discussion, the motion for a resolution No 46 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Economic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the EFTA States SADC, of the other part, signed in Kasane on 16 June 2016. There will also be regular votes at the end of the debate on the appeal. The session is closed. [[It was 16 hours and 50 minutes.]]
