ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our session. [[It was 15 hours and 1 minute.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. Before we get on the agenda, Secretary Duarte Pacheco will read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and several legislative initiatives have been admitted. The proposals of lein. 53 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Review the securities law sanction scheme, transpose Directive 2014 / 57 / EU and Implementing Directive ( EU ) 2015 / 2392 and adapt the Portuguese law to Regulation ( EU ) No 596 / 2014, which falls to 5. the Commission, 54 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Facilitates recognition of professional qualifications and reduces constraints on the free movement of persons and transposes Directive 2013 / 55 / EU, which falls to 10. the Commission, and 55 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — transposes Directive 2014 / 67 / EU on the posting of workers under the provision of services, which falls to 10. the Commission. The projects of lein.o 384 / XIII were also entered ( 2. ( a ) — Changes to the special payment by account ( amendment to the Income Tax Code of Collective Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 - B / 88 of 30 November ) ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 385 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — First amendment to Decree-Law No 11 / 2016 of 8 March, extending the effects for 2017 of the exceptional employment support measure by reducing the contribution rate by the employer and changing the source of financing ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 386 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Commends that the Cooperation Commitment for 2017, to be held between the Government, the Union of Portuguese Mercy, the National Confederation of Solidarity Institutions and the Union of Portuguese Mutualities, may not increase by less than 2 %, adding the value of rising the inflation rate and the rise of the contribution rate to the social sector, in the financial sharing due under cooperation agreements concluded for social responses ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 10. the Commission, 387 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Reduction of the IRC rate ( Amendment to the Income Tax Code of Collective Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 - B / 88 of 30 November ) ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 5. the Commission, 388 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Excluding the gate which increased the tax on petroleum products ( CDS-PP ), 389 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Determines the legal regime for the use of packaging provided on commercial surfaces ( PCP ), 390 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter the Law of the Nationality, adopted by Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October, and the Regulation on the Emolumentary of Registers and Notariado, approved by Decree-Law No 322 -A / 2001 of 14 December ( BE), and 391 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter the General Table of Seal Tax to eliminate the taxation of card-based payment transactions ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 5. the Commission. Parliamentary assessment No 31 / XIII was also introduced ( 2. ( a ) — Concerning Decree-Law No 86 - D / 2016 of 30 December, which transfers to the municipality of Lisbon the ownership and management of Carris ( PCP ). Finally, draft resolutions Nos 633 / XIII ( 2 ) were introduced. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, in the context of the protection of the coastal shoreline and of the safety of persons and goods, undertake a review of cases similar to the seaport of Figueira da Foz, a study to assess the implementation of the bypass at the entry of it and its disclosure ( PSD ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 634 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government include the re-qualification and modernisation of the Vouga Line, which goes through the electrification and expansion of the existing bottle, connecting it with the North Line, in the 2016 - 2020 Railway Investment Plan ( PSD ), which drops to 6. the Commission, 635 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Beginning of the works of replacement, modernization and electrification of the Ramal da Lousã ( PCP ), 636 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take the necessary measures to promote access of all citizens to national museums and monuments, especially for people up to 35 years of age, establishing free access to weekends, holidays and Wednesdays, and extending the use of new information technologies ( CDS-PP ), 637 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strategy for research and innovation in the agri-food sector ( PSD ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 638 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government work towards reducing the number of plastic packagings, thus promoting the use of other more ecological materials ( PAN), 639 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government make every effort to involve the Portuguese State in the decision-making process with a possible extension of the operating licence of the Almaraz Central ( PS ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 640 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Free access to national museums, national monuments and other entities with public participation ( BE) and 641 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by maintaining the ownership of the New Bank in the public sphere ( BE ).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u3	Mrs. Members, the first item on today's agenda consists of political statements, the first to be addressed to Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The issues of suffering conditioned by serious and incurable diseases, the protection of human life, the dignity and freedom of the sick person for a long time have merited the attention of the CDS. Faithful to our values, we have presented contributions and initiatives, of which we highlight, among others, the proposals for the vital will, for the law of bases of palliative care, for the support of the elderly and their caregivers and, more recently, to strengthen the training of health professionals in the areas of geriatrics and palliative care. In relevant and complex matters like these, a debate is required which must be deepened in Portuguese society, done without eufemism, with rigour and elevation. The CDS wants, once again, to make its contribution and move forward, presenting proposals that aim to ensure that our fellow citizens with serious and end-of-life diseases will have better quality of life and will not have to be left in destructive suffering without the support that is due them. The CDS will present a legislative initiative aimed at ensuring the dignity of people in the end of life, of men, women and children who have advanced, incurable and progressive diseases, and who are thousands in our country, in a harsh reality that touches all families. We do so in unquestionable respect for human life, for the dignity and freedom of each one, as irreplaceable values of a modern society enshrined in our Constitution. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The Constitution of the Portuguese Republic states that the right to life is inviolable, in it no exceptions are allowed. The guarantee of the right to life generates the duty to protect. The defense of life is a constitutional value, which stems from the defense of other relevant and fundamental values, such as the dignity of the human being and its freedom. Dignity and autonomy are not affirmed in opposition to the right to life, and cannot be regarded as absolute values but rather values that harmonize with one another. Defending and promoting human dignity is reaffirming that each human being has an intrinsic, unique heritage value, not subject to transaction and not dependent on external circumstances, is reaffirming that life deserves protection in all of them. Accepting that adverse circumstances such as disease, disability, unemployment or human suffering—physical or existential—are taking courage from the human being means creating the idea that there are lives worth living and others not.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u6	It is also, apart from a dangerous path that we do not know where it can end, address the essence of human rights and deprive the greatness of the human being. To defend and promote human dignity, in a perspective that inevitably characterizes our life in society, is to say that the way of looking at the other, just like me, that is vulnerable and suffering, may or may not be magnifying this intrinsic value. The defence of the autonomy and freedom of each one also includes a relational perspective and is based on the principle that the affirmation of individual freedoms does not affect the freedom of others. Autonomy cannot be seen as an absolute value, because it is indeed not. The collective response will always be active in this suffering determined by advanced and incurable disease, eliminating or reducing the problem to reasonable and sustainable levels, but not eliminating the person experiencing it. We understand that the latter is a reductive, archaic, poor and inhumanized way of trying to solve the issue of human suffering, whatever the circumstance that causes it. For us, the problem of end-of-life suffering is solved by taking care of itself and not taking away life from it. [[CDS-PP applause.]] in respect of the assumptions we mentioned, and assuming - clearly against euthanasia, the CDS will present a legislative proposal that reaffirms and expands a set of rights of these people and their families, which, as a whole, raise and density the consecration of a right not to suffer in a sustained and disruptive way, when in the context of advanced disease and end-of-life. Our proposal will not fail to contain, among other things, some of these indications: that this person has the right to receive detailed information on the nature of his illness, on the prognosis and on the clinical scenarios and treatments available and to participate actively in the therapeutic plan, explaining the measures (including those of artificial support of vital functions) he wishes and does not wish to receive, and may refuse treatment; that he has the right to receive palliative care by a team of professionals duly accredited, either in hospital or home, either in residential institutions; that, having the right to receive strict treatment of his symptoms, this intervention implies, in particular in cases of serious concern, to have as first-line measures and more frequently adopted the appropriate use of drugs and only exceptionally to be immobilized with physical restraint; that he has the right to present a vital will in accordance with the current law; that he is entitled not to be subjected to therapeutic obstination. The person with terminal disease, particularly in the last weeks or in the last days of life, has the right to receive palliative sedation, technically correct and appropriate, with sedative drugs and not with others. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are against euthanasia. We hold this debate in a responsible and positive manner, certain that it must be deepened in society, in search of dignified and humanizing responses, on matters relevant to our citizens. As someone said, it will be a duty of all of us to safeguard life, physical and spiritual integrity, freedom of thought, belief and expression and pluralism of organization and opinion. This is the humanist vision that the CDS defends for a modern society, the one that has in the protection of life the foundation of fundamental rights, a demanding society that does not rule out the most vulnerable or those who suffer and which expands their horizons. And that will not abdicate. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u7	Four honourable Members have signed up to request clarification. Members, for which Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto has informed the Bureau that she will respond firstly to two Members. Members and then two others. Ladies and gentlemen. The first registered is Mr. Moisés Ferreira. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, I welcome you on the subject of the debate and I would like to say that, on the part of the Left Block, we are, of course, fully available for this debate. We await the legislative initiative you announced, as well as the proposals that materialise it. We are available to deepen what, as you mentioned, already exists in the law, namely the vital will and the right not to be subjected to therapeutic obstination, but also to strengthen access to palliative care, especially in the National Health Service. More beds are needed in palliative care, as we know, and it is also necessary to improve the treatments that are given in palliative care. There are still hospital centers that do not have the intra-hospital palliative care teams and they need to have them. It is necessary to strengthen community support teams in palliative care so that everyone, even in the home context, can have access to this same care in the last days of life. We are fully available for this discussion, but we cannot help but miss some of the content of the political statement you made from the rostrum. We hope that some part of this content has not been intended to raise smoking curtains on two matters that do not mix and that are not mutually exclusive: palliative care and the issue of assisted death.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u10	We are available to discuss the two issues, we are not available to confuse the discussion and to confuse the two subjects.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u11	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u12	They are not mutually exclusive. We both defend the strengthening of palliative care and the dignity of the person who submits to such palliative care, as well as defend the dignity of the person who wants to resort to assisted death.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u13	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u14	I'm done now, Mr. President. Therefore, the question I put to you, Mrs Deputies, is whether you really want to discuss the issue of palliative care, or whether you want to confuse it deliberately so as not to discuss this issue or the issue of assisted death. [[Congratulations from BE and PS MP Maria Antonio Almeida Santos.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u15	You now have the floor, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mrs Luísa Salgueiro, to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u16	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, as Mr. Member of the Left Block said, also the Socialist Party's bench thinks it is absolutely relevant to bring the issue of palliative care to the House. We all know the importance that these care currently has in the National Health Service and in health care, especially due to the issues of population aging. We are now available to discuss the subject that Mrs Deputies brings here, but, even more important than that, we have been very willing to implement the measures which, during the previous government, have been defended and announced but which really did not allow the creation of the National Committee on Palliative Care and Regional Coordinators, the Strategic Plan for the Development of Palliative Care for the two years 2017 / 2018, the opening of the first Paediatric Palliative Care Unit. All of this is a mark of the Socialist Party's government and, therefore, in terms of palliative care, the Socialist Party is very pleased to discuss, not only with the proposals for the future, but above all with the work we have already done in this area. There is, therefore, a proximity to our positions on this. However, we would also like to make it clear here that it does not seem possible or recommended that, by bringing this matter to the debate today, on a day when a petition is being discussed on different issues should be made, as the honourable Member has said, some connection between strengthening palliative care and the issues of assisted death. We defend the need to strengthen this network, but we do not confuse it with the discussion about the decriminalization of euthanasia or assisted death. Regardless of the personal will of each of the Members of this House, who will have the opportunity to make their own choice, we believe that the concepts at issue must be made clear. The worst service we could offer to the country would be, through this political declaration, confuse people, confuse public opinion. Madam Member, what we want to make clear is that the measures I have outlined and are already put into practice have contributed or not to achieving the objectives that the honourable Member has defended from the rostrum. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u17	You have the floor, to answer these first two requests for clarification, Mrs. Isabel Galliça Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u18	Mr President, I would like to thank Mr Moisés Ferreira and Mrs Luísa Salgueiro for their questions and comments, and to say that we welcome the availability for the debate, which we have also made since the beginning. This is a debate we are not afraid of, in any way. in a positive and constructive perspective, it makes sense for us to contribute precisely today to clarify and bring our contributions, as valid as all others, in order to expand and clarify. We have tried to be clear and in no way fear the debate, we are not afraid of divergent opinions of ours.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u20	It would be a pity, Mr Moses Ferreira, that, with regard to this debate, and in this clarifying perspective, if he wanted to induce the people who listen to us to an idea that dignity exists only in death by euthanasia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u21	What a fool!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u22	So what about the other deaths, they don't have dignity? [[Protests by PS MP Maria Antonio Almeida Santos.]] Madam Member, please listen carefully.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u23	I hear her with some difficulty!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u24	We understand that clarification is to say that there are indeed worthy lives and that we want dignity, we have already stated it and we will continue to affirm it. We haven't started this debate a year ago, we started it a lot longer ago, and it should indeed be remembered that in 2009 we had an initiative in this House to talk precisely about the issues of dignity at the end of life. Dignity is not a matter of dignity in death, it is dignity in life, and we cannot, in any way, pervert this debate by saying that only deaths by euthanasia have dignity. It wouldn't be so bad! It would be wrong to have to ask to be killed to have dignity in death. We defend palliative care and follow-up and say that there are indeed measures already coming from behind. Mrs Salgueiro will remind me that I have welcomed the measures presented in the Strategic Plan for the time being by this Government. It will make me the justice of recognizing that. We continue to believe that the path must go through concrete measures, which, in fact, have not yet happened, so we are looking forward to this. But we have no doubt that the set of measures that we are going to put forward against therapeutic obstination, for dignity in the end of life and for not receiving artificial treatments, for the possibility of receiving palliative sedation, for the possibility of not being tied, for the possibility of having the right to information, for the possibility of being more accompanied — for all purposes — to be densified, in order to raise these rights of the patients is not a small thing, Mrs Deputy, and it was in this enlightening and constructive spirit that we made the political statement. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u25	You have the floor on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u26	Mr President, I would first of all like to welcome the CDS-PP and Mrs Galriza Neto because they have moved ahead with this very important debate which has already begun in Parliament because of the petition that will be discussed a little later as well. It is a fundamental debate and it is a debate that must begin in Parliament, cross Portuguese society and eventually end or have its culmination in Parliament too, when Members are called upon to take decisions. But I was listening to the speeches of the Member of the Left Block and the Member of the Socialist Party, and I was reminding myself that, in this House — not exactly in this Chamber, which still did not exist — about 150 years ago, a little more, perhaps, was given one of the most important debates of Portuguese parliamentarianism, which was the debate on the construction of the railway. There were many people — curiously, many large people at that time — who were against the construction of the railway and there were others, whom they called 'adjectives of modernity', who were in favour of the construction of the railway. This debate has taken place many weeks in this House, this House, and since then has become a kind of reference to the so-called 'rail perspective' debates, which is the perspective that, on the one hand, are the followers of modernity and, on the other hand, are the followers of what the past is good and that everything should remain as it is. Let it be very clear that the Social Democratic Party, in this and other matters, rejects any rail perspective. There are, on the one hand, no defenders of modernity and progress and, on the other hand, defenders of the contrary. Everyone has this debate, which must be done seriously, with responsibility and now without political-party divisions. [[Congrats from the PSD and the CDS-PP Member Isabel Galriza Neto.]] The debate on euthanasia is not a debate in which there are parties on one side and parties on the other. The Social Democratic Party, like others, will give freedom of vote, each member will decide in conscience, with information, with responsibility. This is not a debate between left and right, between modernity and retrogrades, or any other labels you want to place. Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto, in principle, the Social Democratic Party will agree to cooperate and participate in any legislative initiatives aimed at improving palliative care, aimed at improving the situation of terminal patients and helping to put an end to their suffering, to improve the laws we already have and, eventually, to apply them in a sense that is more favourable to their condition. We do not judge, Madam Member, by the PSD Parliamentary Group, contrary to what has been said, that the two problems are separate problems. We believe that this is a broad debate, which should not have taboos, should not have barriers with continuous lines, in which the debate starts here and cannot happen here. It has to be an open debate, a free debate and that is the debate the Democratic Social Party will have. [[Congrats from the PSD and the CDS-PP Member Isabel Galriza Neto.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u27	You have the floor to ask for clarifications by Mrs Carla Cruz of the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u28	Mr President, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, I welcome Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto on the subject she brought here and, above all, because she anticipated, in a way, the debate that we are going to hold in this House later today. Madam Member, allow me to say that the CFP rejects this idea first and foremost, which often means that euthanasia is a substitute for palliative care. We totally reject this idea. Nevertheless, by taking this idea, because in her political statement she spoke about palliative care, I would like to say that we are, in fact, defending and supporting the need for strengthening palliative care and, in this regard, Mrs Deputy, we cannot fail to recall from here the responsibilities that the CDS has had as its government. It is true that the honourable Member has said that she has put forward proposals, several proposals, but it is also true that the Basics of Palliative Care Act, like many other proposals, is not fully regulated and has not been completed. It is true that they have created the network, but it is also true, Mrs Deputies, that the network that was created did not have the necessary coverage to respond to what is really the need of people, especially of patients. But when we talk about palliative care, it is also important not to limit our discussion to end-of-life patients, because palliative care does not necessarily have to be just for them, it is also for others. The honourable Member, in her speech, has often spoken of the dignity at the end of life, of human dignity. Is it true that the State must have that responsibility of dignity at the end of life, through what? In fact, allowing access to appropriate treatments and the most appropriate therapy, allowing the strengthening of multidisciplinary teams. It is a path that needs to be deepened, because there are still many shortcomings at this level. But, Mrs. Member, human dignity is not exhausted there. Human dignity must be covered throughout human life and, in fact, it is necessary to give people, throughout the life cycle, living conditions, housing conditions, wage conditions, right to reform and access to quality health care in due course.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u29	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u30	I shall finish, Mr President, by telling Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto that there is indeed a way to go, but let me ask you the following question: is the CDS available to follow the CFP proposals for strengthening public response in the area of palliative care? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u31	Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor to answer these two requests for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u32	Mr President, Mrs Carla Cruz and Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, thank you for the questions you have asked me. From now on, and as it is good in the CDS, we welcome the consensus that exists in this House on palliative care...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u33	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u34	... and I use to pay tribute to the few, unfortunately few, health professionals who work in this area, but who do so in a very committed way, whether in the public sector, whether in the social sector, in the private sector, in people's homes or in institutions. We insist that the debate should be extended and deepened, even precisely because of the clarification that is needed. As Mrs Carla Cruz has well said, the end-of-life issues are not those of the last days. We said that they are at least the last 12 months of life and the earlier the reference to palliative care, the better results will be. That is why we are going to present the measures that relate to more clarifying aspects, so as not to confuse the absence of useless treatments, the stopping of fossil treatments, which increase suffering, with euthanasia, because they are completely different things. No one on this bench is in favour of destructive suffering. No one on this bench is in favour of abandoning or throwing these people away. We have concrete answers. from there our proposals, which are aimed at densifying and expanding what already exists, particularly in relation to the issues of sedation for concrete cases of suffering called'more destructive' ; in the issues aimed at the treatment of psychomotor agitation and measures that are bad practice, which involve the containment of elderly people, which nobody wants in this country. We are therefore proud to be here to hold this debate in a loud, clear manner, with a desire to help clarify, indeed, the quality of life of our citizens. For us, the problem of suffering is real, it exists, we never denied it. The problem of suffering is combated by active measures, with measures aimed at the dignity of the human being, not eliminating that human being, not eliminating the agent of the problem. This is an outdated, inhumanized, archaic, poor form, which in modern times cannot be the one that satisfies the Portuguese population. We understand, therefore, that we are being demanding here and going to meet a modern society, which is the one that takes care of the most vulnerable and does not leave them behind. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u35	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's continue with the political statements. The next political declaration is the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party. To that end, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u36	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: over the decades, successive governments have opted for a policy of education, higher education and science based on job insecurity and instability for teachers and non-teachers, eliminating permanent needs of the educational system, at all levels of education, and of the scientific and technological system for various modalities of work with precarious linkage. The stability of workers, both teachers and non-teachers, is a fundamental condition for the stability of the educational system itself, without which there can be no quality of teaching and a truly democratic school.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u37	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u38	If today, despite difficulties and inadequacies, we can still say that our country has a capable educational system, we must do this, above all, to the dedication and commitment of these people, who give their best to the functioning of the public school. There must be answers for these workers and the CFP has proposals in this regard: the recruitment of operational assistants and the fulfilment of the State budget with the revision of the portaria criteria; the placement of teachers by national graduation list; the linkage of teachers in higher education, among others. The general struggle against precariousness is also the struggle for the defense of public school at all levels of teaching. We therefore welcome the non-teachers of public education and education establishments who have called for a national strike on Friday, 3 February, for the end of precariousness, professional dignity and for a quality public school, against chronic lack of staff and systematic and illegal recourse to precarious employment. One of the subjects claimed is the revision of the so-called « portaria dos racios », a question which the PCP presented as a proposal at the state budget for 2017, an approved proposal that needs to be implemented, as the reality has shown, with the surveillance and cleaning of schools that are missing, the library and the stationery or photocopies service that do not open, the flag that cannot function, without speaking about the enormous workload that leads workers to exhaustion. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the end of the negotiation process between the Ministry of Education and the union organizations representing teachers, do not yet see the resolution of the tremendous problem of precariousness that affects the teachers hired.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u39	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u40	Despite the entry into the tables of more than 3000 teachers and the end of the School Contract Exchange, the truth is that thousands of teachers are still subject to abuse of the use of term contracts. It is necessary to end the so-called'standard-work' and to take a break with this policy of precariousness and destabilization of the teaching body in all aspects of their professional and family life. Being willing, there are also solutions. over the years, the CFP has presented a viable and fair proposal for the situation of hired teachers, which consists of opening vacancies to national competition by graduated list according to all the needs expressed by full-time schools that occur for three consecutive years. It is an effective, transparent and objective way of recruiting and placing teachers, promoting stability and creating diversified teaching communities. The teachers hired represent an important part of the teaching body that, for the most part, are not performing on-the-spot tasks and therefore to a permanent job must correspond to an effective link of work.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u41	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u42	As for higher education, there are multiple situations of teacher precariousness, which will undoubtedly deepen with the universities in the foundational regime. Not being a foundation, let us now see the example of the Faculty of Fine Arts of the University of Lisbon. of the 117 workers who make up the faculty, 46 have a precarious « guest » bond. That is to say, we are already talking about about about 40% of the total faculty of the Faculty of Fine Arts. It adds to the worsening working conditions of the specially hired teachers, who saw their school hours being increased, without this corresponding to any salary increase, situation that has to be clarified and corrected. We must also not forget the inadequacies of the process of transition of polytechnic higher education teachers, contained in Decree-Law No 45 / 2016. This diploma does not, in particular, respond to a set of teachers who are not covered by any measure leading to their professional stability and continue to be affected by successive precarious contracts, when it is evident that they respond to permanent needs. This is the case of many teachers who have several years of service in their institution and whose maximum contractual period of six years runs out, but with whom institutions cannot renew the contract. A final note for scientific employment matters. Precautionaryness in science is an authentic structural scourge that lacks urgent and assertive measures regarding its resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u43	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u44	With the specialization process of the parliamentary assessment scheduled by the CFP, important steps can be taken, especially if the mechanisms that prevent the succession of precarious contracts are included, as proposed. But it is also urgent to make a more extensive reflection and discussion on the condition of a purse and the perspective of career integration, decisively combating the severe precariousness that afflicts the scientific workers who depend on a scholarship. Right-wing policy, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who satisfy the voracious appetite of the large economic groups, are fed by the precariousness and devaluation of work, hiding the exploitation and impoverishment behind the aroma of hot bread with which they intend to lubricate the workers. Those who think that this is an "inevitability" or a mere accident should be disbanded. It is an ideological option, with very high costs for the development of the country, with the ultimate aim of withdrawing to education, higher education, science and scientific culture itself any scrap of its emancipator character, referring them to a role of duplicators of class interest. We need to break this path and it's with that rupture that the PCP is compromised. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u45	The Bureau records four entries for requests for clarification to Mrs Ana Mesquita, who will respond in groups of two. To request clarifications, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u46	Mr President, I should like to begin by welcoming the CFP for bringing this issue again, either because Parliament has recently been assessed or because it has been in negotiation, according to what we read in the news, the decree-law on the competition of teachers for higher education. Mrs Ana Mesquita, I have a bit of a fight with this, because I read in your joint positions, signed with the PS, which will, on the one hand, bind teachers and non-teachers and, on the other hand, combat precariousness in general and also in the scientific sector. I would think that the honourable Member had more information than we did, since she was probably involved in negotiations in some way, at least indirectly, and that the matter would be healed. That is why it is not my surprise when I see now that a few days after the Council of Ministers has passed the decree on the invitation to tender for teachers, the honourable Member will come here to warn us that there will still be problems of precaution! The question that, frankly, comes to my heart is: what is your role, what is your usefulness, what is your contribution, what is your effectiveness in this government solution? Because if they do not do what they have proposed to do in your joint position and if they fail to achieve the gain they have proclaimed for years on the fight against precariousness, after all, what is your effectiveness? Or do they claim to be ineffective in combating precariousness? I would very much like to know the opinion of the honourable Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u47	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u48	As the honourable Member also spoke in the work standard, which is an issue which I do not know yet, I wonder whether it is healed, whether they have achieved this victory or, perhaps, whether we are still going to have a work standard, which has a period of more than three years, which you have always fought during the PSD/CDS government. I would also like to ask you whether your fight against precariousness has some ideological tone, because you always talk about combating work precariousness, but when it comes to teachers who have been fired from schools with an association contract and who have been fired by a decision that you have fed, in this case, there is no longer any question of work and those teachers who have been fired have no problem of precariousness. For you, these teachers are simply invisible,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u49	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u50	...no precarious, but invisible. So, Mrs Deputy, I ask you very specifically: what news can we expect in terms of combating precariousness in the competition of teachers? How many teachers are expected? Is it the 20 000 that Prof. Mário Nogueira spoke of, the 10 000 who, at the particular time of the process, have proclaimed or are the 3000 that Mr. Prime Minister spoke of and, if it is 3000, are the PCP satisfied with the outcome that has arrived with his negotiations? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u51	To ask for clarifications, you have the floor of Mrs. Joana Mortágua from the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u52	Mr President, I would like to welcome the CFP on the subject you have chosen for this political statement, which is of particular relevance when we are approaching a strike next Friday, that the Left Block also greets, school officials, operational assistants and technical assistants. Currently, one of the biggest problems in schools is that we see public schools and we realize that there are no professionals who do not suffer with precariousness. We have technical assistants and operational assistants for whom the renewal of long-term contracts is a constant one, as well as a constant opening of invitations to tender for part-time jobs. I have with me a copy of an opening invitation to tender for operational assistants in one of these groups, a recent open invitation to tender for a certain part-time job, with a duration of 3 hours and 30 minutes daily and with a salary of 3, 67 € per hour, for tasks as specific as the monitoring of children with special educational needs. In addition to this problem of operational assistants and technical assistants, we have to mention that the problem is the precariousness of these workers, but it is also the fact that the tables have been closed eight years ago and therefore eight years since there has been no link between these workers, such as teachers and technicians who support schools. Do we have psychologists and how many years have you been opening a vacancy to link a psychologist to a school? Oh, my God! In many cases, the last psychologists to be bound are already 20 years old. After that, all psychologists with permanent tasks in schools were hired under precarious term-solvent contract arrangements. But this situation is also passed by the teachers themselves. Due to various hardships and injustices, prolonged over time, some teachers, in addition to the freezing of the career, beyond the impossibility of their appreciation in the career, have been in a precarious situation for tens of years, always with the « home to the back», always trying to figure out where they can develop or start developing a new educational project, without knowing who will be able to finish this same project in the following year. Now, obviously this is bad for the labor rights of these professionals,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u53	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u54	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I said, this is bad for the working rights of these professionals, but it is also bad for public school, it is bad for public education. It must be noted that there is no public school of quality either in higher education or in compulsory education without the rights of workers. Everything is required of these workers, but nothing is given to them in terms of rights. Mrs Ana Mesquita, what I would like to ask you — the CDS has already spoken and the PSD will speak — is the following: what did you do right for these workers, how many have you fired, how many have you left on the street, how many public officials we have been less than having in the last four years of the right government, who is one of the great responsible for this eviction of professionals and for precarious public school? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u55	And who's responsible now? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u56	In reply, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u57	Mr President, I begin by thanking the questions put by Mrs Ana Rita Bessa and Mrs Joana Mortágua. Mrs Joana Mortágua, in fact, all the issues raised here are concrete problems that need to be resolved. For example, the problem of hiring operational assistants and their linkage. There are cases that are overwhelming. I had the opportunity to see one case, that of hiring three operational assistants, one for 3 hours, another for 2 hours and another for 2 hours, which was 7 hours a day. It is, in fact, an unacceptable mechanism that needs to be combated and we have put forward proposals in this area to change this situation. The need to monitor students with special educational needs is also a pressing reality, not only by the operational assistants, but also by the technicians, who are missing in schools. The question of the need for placement of more psychologists. This is urgent, it is a problem that we have in our hands to solve and that requires assertive action in this matter. I would also like to say that, on the subject of the teachers hired, we agree that this instability does not benefit anyone and only harms the public school...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u58	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u59	...and, above all, our students, who don't deserve this kind of treatment. It is also necessary here to intervene and continue to defend a quality public school where workers' rights are effectively met.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u60	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u61	Mrs Ana Rita Bessa, I am grateful for the various questions you have asked, but if you cannot distinguish a government that has promoted the incentive to the precariousness of a party's proposal, such as the CFP, which promotes the fight against precariousness, then we are talking about it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u62	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u63	So explain!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u64	We've always been on the side of here, on the side of the fight against precariousness. I wanted to say that the removal of the PSD/CDS government was important in order to be able to take steps to combat precariousness,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u65	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u66	... because before, many of the problems that affect the public school today have been created and deepened by the PSD government / CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u67	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u68	And now it's the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u69	There is also another question: what the CFP assesses as positive but insufficient — and that is also revealing our great usefulness here — is the reason for us all to continue to fight in defense of public school — that is a heritage we have had. We have submitted over time, and we continue to present — and it is not because we are in another context that we are no longer doing — our proposals, our demands. We continue to stand by the struggle of workers who, like the operational assistants who called the strike on 3 February, are there to claim the end of precariousness. We have put forward proposals, in particular at the level of the State budget, as is known, which cannot be squamised or forgotten. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u70	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Nilza de Sena.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u71	Mr President, Mrs Ana Mesquita, I should like to begin by thanking you for the subject you bring today and I must say that I share much of the perplexity that Mrs Ana Rita Bessa has already expressed here. In fact, we live the hypocrisy of a new time, i.e. the idea that they are in the hands of the government in the morning, and in the evening they make the 'number' of the opposition here. Ladies and gentlemen, you are all in the photograph. They are all in the photograph of schools that close because they do not have physical conditions for parents, for students, for the educational community in general; they are in the photograph of the lack of operational assistants. That is why, Mrs Deputies, making these two speeches with such ambiguity and, above all, with such a bright air that those who are in the opposition don't fool anyone, not even out there.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u72	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u73	Why? Because the Serpa High School closed and not even a camera president of your party, who asked the Minister of Education, was received or had a message, nothing, and you weren't able to respond when you were asked. Neither in relation to Castro Verde, nor to Odemira, nor to Agualva-Cacém, nor to Santo André, nor to Alexandre Herculano, in Porto... And we could continue out here. I mean, they have responsibilities! [[PCP protests.]] The PSD has reported, more than once, the scandalous lack of investment in the issue of requalification of the school park, especially in your time, in the time of your government, because not in our time, i.e. between 2011 and 2014, there was such a large disinvestment. [[PCP protests.]] Madam Member, this is precarious, it's the precariousness that you don't want. In order not to forget, I say, yet, that the PSD has bound 4000 teachers — I repeat, 4000 — and you have bound 100 teachers — I repeat, 100. This is precarious, Your Honor! I end by saying the following: serving your comrades is one thing, serving Portugal is another completely different. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u74	Have shame! Your speech is rhyme!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u75	Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u76	Mr President, Mrs Ana Mesquita, I would like to begin by welcoming her, as well as the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, for bringing a matter which everyone is interested in, which is the fight against precariousness and the struggle for the dignity of work and the rights of workers. The honourable Member has put a number of questions on the table. I will not be able to consider all of them, but there are two subjects on which I wanted to question you. Firstly, on scientific employment. For the Socialist Party it is absolutely essential that we work for a decent and sustainable scientific job. Mrs Depute, the Government has signed with all public universities and with all public policymakers a legislative contract which commits these institutions, by their own signature, to open new places of teachers and researchers in the universities 2000 and in the polytechnics 1000 new places of teachers and researchers until the end of the legislature. It seems to the Socialist Party that this matter is much more comprehensive and much broader than just the issue of pockets. Mrs Deputy, does the Portuguese Communist Party or does it not value this initiative to place in institutions the engine of the redignification of scientific employment and teaching employment? But even speaking of teachers, this government is doing something essential, which is to put an end to the false pockets. We do not want false pockets without social rights and without labour rights and all those places that are filled, at least three years ago, by pockets will be occupied by contractors with all social and labor rights of a contract. in the same way that the Ministry undertakes to use the criterion of dignity of scientific employment in the new competitions for scientific research projects and for institutional evaluation of research and development units. It seems to us that this is a sustained work programme to turn the page of scientific employment, we will gradually end the precariousness because it has to be gradually. Only those who are unaware of what they did in four years, which was an institutional race in the institutional fabric of science,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u77	All right! It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u78	...only those who don't know what they did now think you can do everything in a year. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u79	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u80	I'm done now, Mr. President. On non-retire education, there have never been as many teachers placed in schools as in this school year. Mrs. Member, do we value this or not? Madam Member, we still don't know how the government will decide, following negotiations with the unions...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u81	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u82	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I said, we still do not know how the government will decide, following negotiations with the unions; however, at least 3000 teachers will be linked as a result of this negotiation, more 400 teachers will be linked, this year, as a result of the labor norm and in serious, deep and committed negotiations with the unions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u83	Mr. Deputies, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u84	Madam Member, do you or do you not appreciate these elements? Thank you very much, Mr President, and I'm sorry I've been lengthening. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u85	In response to these two requests for clarification, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr Nilza de Sena and Porfirio Silva, I begin by thanking you for the questions you have raised. I would like to say that Mrs Nilza de Sena has really been missing here, because the President of the City Council of Serpa has called for a meeting with the Minister of Education on the problems in these schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u87	You see? Liar!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u88	So it's not true what you said. It is curious that he shares the concerns of the CDS, as he also shared something else: from policies to attack the public school in the previous government, because he also shared them. I would also like to tell you that the CFP, even though it is not in the government — it is not — has already solved many problems which, in particular, the right has created and contributed to create.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u89	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u90	And it is with the help of the CFP that steps are being taken to solve problems, in particular the lack of operational assistants, the placement of teachers, the linkage of assistants, technicians... so many problems that have been created. Madam Member, we do not accept that things will be solved as the right has resolved them, that is, with mechanisms that masked reality, rather than correct them. There was a problem with operational assistants and the ratios changed; we had a problem with the hiring of teachers and, instead of attacking this problem, the number of students per class changed. This has been the course and curriculum that PSD and CDS have used, that we vehemently refuse and, of course, will always be against. Now, as always, we will continue to demand and intervene in solving the problems that actually exist, but we do so with consistency and honesty that characterize the action of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u91	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u92	Mr Porfirio Silva, on the subject of scientific employment, we hope that the parliamentary assessment of the decree on scientific employment will bear fruit which will contribute decisively to the resolution of a major problem of precariousness, which we have in fact and must resolve. Indeed, the priority to end false pockets is correct, and we believe that action is needed and to intervene in this matter. It is very important that we succeed in carrying out this whole process of expertise that we now have in hand and with certainty that the PCP will do everything in order to achieve this. We appreciate, of course, the strengthening of staff in public higher education institutions and we value what is to be valued, but we will not fail to claim that it is necessary to go forward until the policy of destruction that the PSD and CDS have played a role in requires a broad response, very assertive measures, very profound that make the counterposition of the disaster path that was followed by PSD and CDS. Since you talked about the process of evaluation of research units — an important issue — I would like to say that what happened to institutions in the last PSD/CDS government in this area was a perfect disaster that cannot be repeated in any way. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u93	By continuing to give political statements, I give the floor to Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Greens Ecological Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u94	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the last two days, the Greens have promoted their parliamentary days around the threat and risks arising from the Almaraz Nuclear Central. The purpose of these days was to hear and discuss the risks that the Central of Almaraz represents for Portugal and, in particular, for the populations and for the territories located on the bank and in the river bank area of the Tejo. in the last few days, The Greens have traveled through the districts of Castelo Branco and Portalegre to evaluate how we are or are not prepared to face this threat. We have heard and met with the populations and with very varied entities, from health, civil protection and security, to firefighters, city halls, educational institutions and economic agents in these two districts. Of all these contacts, the Greens could conclude that there is a lot to do and at various levels. Therefore, these days will result in a number of initiatives, particularly at the level of the Assembly of the Republic, which The Greens intend to present to be discussed and voted on in this plenary. The first one, which is already scheduled for discussion on 17 February, concerns a bill, which seeks to prevent the import of electricity from nuclear sources. In fact, if we reject nuclear power production, we will have to be consistent with that decision. In other words, rejecting nuclear energy does not just mean not producing it, it also means not buying it and not consuming it. In our view, it is only in this way that the rejection of nuclear energy achieves its fullness. If we reject the production of nuclear energy, we must also prevent or prohibit its marketing in our country and therefore prohibit its importation. If not, the rejection of nuclear energy will be lacking and partial and the Greens believe that this rejection should be clear, comprehensive and unequivocal. This is the objective of this first legislative initiative. With regard to the second legislative initiative, which is also a bill, The Greens want to promote in our country field tests related to the emergence of nuclear risk. in fact, as we could see on these days, emergency plans that predict the radiological risk have never been tested on the ground. Emergency plans were not and are not being tested on the ground with the multiple entities expected to be involved and with population samples, which means that their actual efficiency is not proven. Like all emergency plans, these plans, because of the underlying risk and the threat posed by the Almaraz Central, effectively need to be tested, not only in order to be able to perceive their failures and correct them but also in order to be able to adapt them to an eventuality that no one wants. As we can see during these parliamentary days, there are entities that have no idea what to do in the event of an accident in the centre of Almaraz. That is also why tests in the field of emergency plans are of decisive importance in this area. Finally, the Greens want to put forward an initiative to allow adequate information and clarification to the people, because people today do not know what to do, how they will be notified and how the alert will be made in the event of an accident. The Greens Ecological Party therefore proposes that various information mechanisms be created to populations, as in the case of an earthquake or in the case of dengue. The risks of an accident in Almaraz imply or require that the population be adequately informed about which most appropriate behaviour. Finally, and now dealing with more of a demand than a proposal, the Greens believe that the Government should clarify its position on the closure of the Almaraz nuclear power plant. It is true that the Government has already expressed its deep disappointment and concern that it has not been heard about the construction of the temporary nuclear waste store, and also, as a public one, a complaint has been made to Brussels. But still, the Greens believe that, in view of the obsolete state of the Almaraz nuclear power plant — the power plant has long exceeded its useful life-time, thus constituting an aggravated threat and an increased risk — the government cannot fail to take a firm position on the failure of the Almaraz power plant. And the government can only do it because it will intransigently defend the interests of our country, the safety of our populations, our territory and environmental values, particularly the Tejo River, which is effectively threatened by the nuclear power plant, until its waters are used for the cooling system of the power plant. Therefore, in view of the importance and size of the threat, the Greens believe that the serious diplomatic incident that was created by the Spanish Government did not involve the Portuguese Government in assessing the construction of the nuclear waste store should not be dealt with solely by the investigations initiated by the Ministry of the Environment. In our view, the matter and its seriousness require the involvement of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and also of the Prime Minister himself, who should, in fact, make public the difficulties developed, or to develop, in this matter. In addition, we also believe that there must be an involvement of the President himself. If you don't play with fire, you play with the nuclear issue. We therefore await and hope that the remaining seats in this House will accompany these proposals by the Greens Ecological Party on such a sensitive subject as that of the Almaraz nuclear power plant. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u95	Mr José Luís Ferreira, the Bureau registered three Mrs to request clarifications. Ladies and gentlemen. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u96	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u97	Therefore, you have the floor to ask for clarification, Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u98	Mr President, Mr José Luís Ferreira, once again comes to this Chamber a matter already well known to us: the issue of Almaraz. Today, Mr. José Luís Ferreira has, from the outset, brought a clear difference in relation to the last intervention by his parliamentary group, which is the knowledge that there are protection plans on the part of the Portuguese Government and safety plans on any incident that may occur at risk to the national territory. We hope that you have this information, because it is indeed of great importance. We also agree that it is a sensitive matter — we all agree — but we also believe that the measures adopted by the Portuguese Government, as well as all the mobilisation being made, beyond the government, by the deputies, by the autarchs and by the citizens, from the very beginning of the neighbouring territories, such as the honourable Members. Members have had the opportunity to verify and report on the interventions they have made during your parliamentary days. in this context, the 90-day deadline is set for a reply to the complaint submitted by the Portuguese Government to Brussels. at the same time, the 30-day deadline is set for a reply to the complaint submitted by a number of Spanish entities regarding the existence of the Almaraz nuclear power plant and also the construction of the warehouse. Therefore, we are now in expectation and in a slight impasse in relation to these answers. Thirty days pass very quickly, and it is true that an accident can happen at any time, but if there is no response in those 30 days, any interventions by the Spanish Government are automatically suspended.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u99	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u100	I'm really gonna finish. Therefore, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, what I want to tell you is that the Socialist Party, in addition to having presented a draft resolution on this subject, raising awareness of the government once again for the closure of its own power station, is next to all those who struggle for clarification daily and will continue to support in order to be given a quick answer. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u101	To request clarification, Mrs Emília Cerqueira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u102	Mr President, Mr José Luís Ferreira, as a previous note, I have to say that this intervention is only possible today, in this plenary, because of everything that has already been done about this matter. The Assembly of the Republic has unanimously voted for unanimity which is often not seen in this House on such sensitive and important issues - the need for the closure of the Almaraz nuclear power plant and, in particular, the fact that it has long exceeded its useful life, on which all parties have already spoken. Mrs. Members, it is not worth having to discuss these lateral issues here, because this is the main issue and everyone should be concerned, as the Greens Ecological Party, which today brings this issue to the debate just after we have made several parliamentary debates, political declarations and a series of hearings, in committee, to hear various entities. After these proceedings were made and of all the parties if they had spoken on this matter today it was possible to bring this statement in these terms and to bring it in a manner which could be accompanied by this House. That's the point. So far, despite all the hearings and all the issues that have already been discussed, there is a key question that remains to be answered, which we have never been answered by the Minister for the Environment. The question is: after all, does the Portuguese Government want the closure of the Almaraz nuclear power plant or not? Mr CL will answer me whether or not this is the primary issue, the first question that everyone has to move and drive, not losing us in lateral issues other than that which is the real issue of substance. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u103	Mr Pedro Soares has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u104	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, the Assembly of the Republic is fully aware of the situation we live in, the threat that exists in relation to the Almaraz nuclear power plant. The political statement made by Mr Luís Ferreira must be welcomed precisely because it brings this danger to the debate again, this imminent risk that the Portuguese territory, the populations, the environment and the economy are suffering from the maintenance of the operation of the Almaraz nuclear power plant beyond 40 years. I must say that this remarkable and unusual convergence that exists in the Assembly of the Republic on the need for the closure of the Almaraz nuclear power plant should be a good reason for the Portuguese Government to clearly assume this objective with the Spanish Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u105	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u106	We should even consider that this convergence in the Assembly of the Republic should lead to all the political and diplomatic resources of the Portuguese State being at the service of this objective, which is the closure of the nuclear power plant in Almaraz. What concerns the Assembly of the Republic is not to interfere with the energy options of the Spanish State, which concerns the Assembly of the Republic are the risks emanating from the nuclear power plant of Almaraz and is the security of the Portuguese territory. Therefore, the issue of the Almaraz nuclear power plant is not merely Spanish, it is an Iberian issue and must be assumed as such. at the next Iberian summit of the Portuguese State with Spanish, which will soon take place in Portuguese territory, the issue of Almaraz must be at the heart of the negotiations, on the political agenda.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u107	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u108	I'm done now, Mr. President. I welcome once again the initiative of The Greens and Mr. José Luís Ferreira for the initiatives that will bring to this House and with which the Left Block identifies itself in generic terms. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u109	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u110	Mr President, Mr José Luís Ferreira, first of all I welcome the Greens Ecologist Party for its parliamentary days and for the relevance of the issue that brought the debate today.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u111	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u112	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Almaraz nuclear power plant, since the start of its operation, present a number of technical problems. throughout its 35 years of life, the central stage was very varied incidents ranging from chemical contamination of circuits to valve failure, gas leak, refrigeration failure, and many others. These incidents caused serious doubts and unrest among the populations. Moreover, the fact that the power plant has extended its life span for another 10 years and there is the possibility of extending it for another 10 years, making it even more obsolete, increases the fears of the people and their safety, especially since in 2017 at least one incident has already occurred. The construction of Almaraz's individual temporary warehouse is also added, which increases unannouncement and raises doubts about the renewal of the plant's operating licence. Actually, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the security threat brought by the Almaraz Central, given the proximity to Portugal, is a real risk that cannot be spread. It is therefore important for the Government to make every effort to safeguard the safety and health of the population by monitoring the air quality and because the Central of Almaraz proceeds to its cooling by drinking to the waters of the river Tejo, it is also necessary to make efforts to ensure that the waters of the river Tejo are also monitored and monitored in their quality. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u113	To reply, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u114	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the honourable Members for their requests for clarification. Deputies Maria da Luz Rosinha, Emília Cerqueira, Pedro Soares and Ana Virginia Pereira. Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha, in fact, radiological emergency plans exist, but there are generally no specific plans for a nuclear accident. In addition, what matters to emphasize is the need for these plans to come out of the paper, because if they are not tested, we will not know what their degree of reliability and their degree of efficiency is. Therefore, in one of the proposals we have announced today, we want there to be tests and tests of these plans on the ground, until we understand the coordination of the various entities involved, which are many, and therefore if there is no coordination and if there is no test, we will not know whether or not we have an efficient plan. Of course, the complaint to the authorities in Brussels is important and useful, but it is not enough. It's little! Mr Environment has made some inquiries, but we also believe that it is necessary to involve the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister on this issue, so that the Government will clarify its position on the closure of the nuclear power plant. It is true that the Government has already expressed disappointment at the fact that it is not heard about the construction of the nuclear waste warehouse, but about the closure of the nuclear power plant there has never been a clear position on the part of the Portuguese Government. And here I would like to reply to Mrs Emília Cerqueira, telling her that it was good for the Government to clarify its position on the closure or not of the nuclear power plant until we can have any evolution with respect to the previous government, which has remained in a totally scary passivity and also in a very democratic silence.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u115	Don't look at me!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u116	Then, Mrs Deputies, there is indeed a unanimous vote — it is now said at the initiative of the Greens Ecological Party — and this indicates that there is a position on the part of the PSD bench which creates the expectation that we will be able to achieve the proposals that have been put forward, because if we want to reject nuclear power, then we will also reject imports of energy from nuclear sources. Mr Soares, in fact, we follow up on his comments, we already have more than enough reasons for Portugal to involve all diplomatic means in this battle and for the Portuguese Government to take a very clear position with the Spanish Government on the future of the nuclear power plant, and we also believe that at the next Iberian summit, if possible even before, this should be scheduled. Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira, we also accompany her concerns regarding the need to channel efforts to ensure the monotorization of the waters of the river Tejo, which is shared by Spain and Portugal, because, as we know, the nuclear power plant uses the waters of the river Tejo to make the cooling of its nuclear power production. [[Applause from The Greens and Members of the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u117	Continuity to political statements, Mr Carlos Silva of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u118	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: at the end of 2010 the state business sector in the field of public transport had accumulated a debt of EUR 17 billion, the equivalent — imagine! — around 10 % of national GDP, consuming around EUR 590 million that year only in interest. Salaries and jobs of public transport companies were at risk with the sector operating in technical bankruptcy. The former PSD/CDS Government has undertaken a profound reform by rationalizing the activity and exploring various synergies in the restructuring of companies in this sector in various modes of transport. by launching the sub-concession of its activity in Lisbon and Porto, river, metropolitan and highway companies were added, providing operating and operating conditions that did not only eliminate the annual burden on the public record, as they transferred the responsibility for the planned investment of renewal of their fleets to dealers, releasing the taxpayers of this tax canga.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u119	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u120	The current PS government, by irresponsibly calling into question the solutions found by the previous Government, as a result of the Memorandum of Understanding signed by another Socialist Government, has again raised the uncertainty about the future of the transport sector and has created additional difficulties in its operation, and is currently visible very negative results of this action and raising many questions. by reverting the process of transport sub-concessions in the Porto and Lisbon regions, the Government established a solution for the public accounts and for the future of Portuguese. In addition, it added the risks and operational costs of more than EUR 200 million, only in the first half of 2016, without offering an alternative solution to the one that ideologically approached to question. The intention of the current Government to reverse the concessions of public transport in Lisbon and Porto is to reactivate previously eliminated costs, without the public investment promised by that Government, at a time when users and trade unions particularly complain about the lack of maintenance of fleets and the continued degradation of public service. The chaos has been installed in public transport, service levels in public transport companies are deteriorating from day to day. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: This government, which is to be reversed, is slow to present a real strategy for the future for a real sustainable transport policy. The government acted partially, did an electoral favor to the President of the Chamber of Lisbon. [[Protests by PS MP João Paulo Correia.]] With the intention of assigning the management of Carris to the Chamber of Lisbon, the Socialist Government once again acts in a partial manner. The colossal divide is to be paid to put all Portuguese,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u121	Sure! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u122	...the discount party is only for some, curiously offered in an election year. [[PSD applause.]] I take advantage of you, ladies and gentlemen. Members, to remind us of what Vital Moreira, the candidate of the Socialist Party for European elections, said: « The privilege of Lisbon and Porto is a policy of the rest of the country ».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u123	Well remembered! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u124	in this new framework is called into question the existence of an integrated transport system throughout the metropolitan area of Lisbon. We also ask what the legitimacy of a single municipality, in the case of Lisbon, at the limit, can decide on the elimination of transport lines in the neighbouring municipalities, currently assured by Carris, namely Amadora, Loures, Odivelas and Oeiras, or what legitimacy of the company can be managed taking into account only the interests of Lisbon, forgetting all those who work or move to Lisbon have their point of origin or destination outside the municipality. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: Public transport in a metropolitan region, such as Lisbon or Porto, should be managed in a regional logic of articulation of the various modes of transport, of the various interfaces and of their interconnection with the whole region. The municipality of Carris is reducing from the point of view of multi-municipal management, so it goes in the wrong direction. And, more than a wrong process, this sick solution of a deep lack of transparency would even say opacity. In view of the total lack of knowledge about the content of the agreement reached with the City Council of Lisbon, we miss the content of the memorandum not even submitted to the appreciation and discussion of the municipal bodies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u125	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u126	This allows us to conclude that the Socialist Party and the Government maintain their traditional position, lack of respect for the authorities, the autarchs, the metropolitan entities, the regulators and Parliament, which reflects a deep disrespect for the Portuguese. The result of its work is that there is no integrated transport plan for the metropolitan areas of Lisbon and Porto and on this path there will never be, I would say, a single idea of transport. Mrs. PS Members, by this way there is no public passenger transport service that guarantees the maintenance of legally provided public service obligation levels, and there will never be. The fact is that the Socialist Government has unfortunately transformed a structural issue for the development and quality of life of millions of Portuguese into a very little serious campaign of electoral propaganda. The Portuguese deserve more! [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u127	Mr President, four of us have signed up. Ladies and gentlemen for clarification. How do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u128	Two to two, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u129	Of course, Mr. Deputies. So, for a first request for clarification, Mr. João Paulo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u130	Mr President, Mr Carlos Silva, was expecting us to know that PSD would now hear: if the PSD of the Municipal Assembly of Lisbon, which voted in favour of the municipalization, of the transfer from Carris to the Chamber of Lisbon ; if the PSD of the Council of Lisbon, who voted against ; if the PSD of the Metropolitan Area of Porto, which is in favour of the municipality ; or if the Parliamentary Group of the PSD, which is against the municipality. Mr President, tell us that the PSD is the one you represent in this debate: the one, the two, the three or the four?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u131	He knows there! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u132	Mr President, it seems to me that it is very incoherent on the part of the PSD — and also on the part of the CDS — to say that it is scandalous that the debt of Carris remains in the state and the management of the operation passes to the City Hall of Lisbon because, when you wanted to privatize, you wanted to keep the debt in the state and the management of the operation in private. That's how they looked decent! He was already defending the public interest! Open... [[P.S.'s applause.]] What you have been doing for four years, from 2011 to 2015, has been degrading the public passenger transport service.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u133	But there were tickets!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u134	Just look at these numbers: between 2011 and 2015, Carris, the Metro of Lisbon, Transtejo and Soflusa lost 1000 workers, the number of kilometres made by Carris in 2010 was 42 million / year and in 2015, when you left the government, it was 29 million kilometers / year ; between 2011 and 2012, in just 18 months, you increased the price of the intermodal securities by 20 %, reduced the offer, degraded the service, extinguished lines. What you wanted was to privatize completely, dismantle the public passenger transport service. What is on the table, honourable Member, is very simple: Carris now has more workers, has better service, does more miles... [[PSD protests.]] ...and better serve the interests of your users. in our view, municipalization is the best response to the quality of service and also to the management of the company, because it allows more flexibility and proximity, according to the interest of local populations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u135	Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u136	Mr President, Mr Carlos Silva, I must begin by confessing to you that my soul is completely stupid, after hearing Mr Renegare the principles of the electoral programme that the PSD... [[PSD laughter and protests.]] ... presented the suffrage in the past elections of 4 October 2015 and said here that Carris should have a metropolitan management, because it does not make sense that there is another management at this time that is not of metropolitan level, when the PSD and CDS went for five years to dismantle the public transport service in the metropolitan region of Lisbon and in Porto and prepared this dismantling to be possible a process of privatization that, to be completed and not stopped, as this political majority managed to impose in this House of the Republic, would precisely cause the transport network of Caris and other transport operators to cease to have a metropolitan logic and to have a private logic, in accordance with the interests of private operators that would remain with the transport sub-assignment of the company. Therefore, Mr Carlos Silva, I believe that you must apply for a medal of the political pirouette in this House of the Republic because you were able, within about six minutes of political declaration, not only to deny the entire political proposal of the PSD but also to deny all the destructive governmental action that the PSD and the CDS have done in the government. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u137	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u138	Just to conclude, Mr President, I would say that Mr Deputy is now very attentive to the complaints of trade unions and workers' committees but for four and a half years many unions and many workers have made successive strikes against the privatisation operations that his Government has prepared and tried to carry out and at that time no attention was ever heard of what was the voice of workers, the voice of users, the voice of the people of Lisbon and Porto. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u139	To respond to these two requests for clarification, Mr Carlos Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u140	Mr President, Mr João Paulo Correia, what is on the table today is the statement by the Prime Minister and therefore I cannot but make this small assessment to what your statements have been. Once again, Mr. Prime Minister came to the social communication to launch a curtain of smoke, dust, on a topic of importance and magnitude for the future and for the populations of the Lisbon and Porto regions, creating in the air the expectation that there are poorly clarified things. It is normal, we have witnessed this in other situations and therefore do not admire us and we are not scared. But here I make an appeal, perhaps even a challenge, to Mr. Prime Minister, which is the following: or Mr. Prime Minister says what he knows, denounces the situation, communicates it to the criminal authorities, or then we will return to the coffee conversation,... [[That's it! All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u141	...in the style of a Prime Minister will fan and pantomino we watch in the day to day. [[PSD applause.]] [[All right! That's it!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u142	Mr. Prime Minister, with these attitudes, does not dignify the country. in these circumstances, it is still in time, since it gave these statements recently, to clarify the country what it means when it refers to situations of some lack of transparency in the Carris process. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u143	Mr. João Paulo Correia, I thought you were here today talking about your colleagues in the coalition but, after all, you came to talk about the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u144	They always think the opposite! Don't hit one!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u145	Mr. João Paulo Correia, I believe that you do not want to be reversed, but what the Communist Party has done to you is an attempt to reverse. in these circumstances, I thought I was coming here to ask your fellow travelers for explanations and, therefore, an appeal that I leave to you is also for you to understand.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u146	Don't worry!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u147	You're getting organized! You rule the country and therefore organize themselves and do not give a sad show of what is to rule the country in a less clear, less transparent way, as they do on a daily basis. By now, Mr João Paulo Correia, I would say that you have changed your position. You have changed your position too! He came to say that the PSD changed its position but Mr. João Paulo Correia, in 2012, said : "We live a very different economic and financial reality, with more demanding and stricter goals. That is why the transport budget must be a contraction, a reduction in the limit of indebtedness, a reduction in leadership. I recall the reduction of 20 % of administrators, 15 % of operating expenditure'. And then I was still accusing — look at it! — the left of populism and said that the right had no idea about the sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u148	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u149	The honourable Member has also changed his position and in these circumstances...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u150	In 2002 I was not a Member!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u151	I can clarify the question of the date, but these are your statements in this Parliament, Mr President. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u152	You have the floor to request clarification from Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u153	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Carlos Silva, at the beginning of his speech from that rostrum, he mentioned here the debt that existed in public transport companies when your Government entered into office in 2011. I would like to ask you a question: what debt existed in these companies when you left? It was 17 billion in 2011 when you entered, and when you left the government, Mr. Tell me! Don't you know? Oh, my God! I am replying to you: from EUR 17 000 to EUR 20 000 million the debt of the companies on behalf of which you have sown destruction in the public transport service and destroyed circulations that were in the public service to the people. Don't come here in debt, sir! ...don't remember sad things because then you have to hear what you don't like. [[PCP applause.]] The honourable Member came here to bring the beautiful business he was preparing with the public-private partnership for Metro and Carris. I tell you: the private received 235, EUR 4 million per year, almost EUR 2000 million in an eight-year contract ; it received EUR 106, EUR 3 million by Metro, 50% of the proceeds from the sale of securities, EUR 43, 2 by the availability of service today, EUR 9, 5 ; it received EUR 129 million by Carris, EUR 44, EUR 5 million from the transport revenues of Caris and EUR 78, 6 million by the availability of the fleet. This was guaranteed revenue, gold business for the private who would take care of the business. The private received the entire infrastructure network, truck stations, the PMOs (material parks and workshops) all of it! Mr President, is this what you here have said was the alternative that you are still defending today? Oh, my God! Does the honourable Member have the opportunity to present to the Assembly and the country this solution in which the private received to use the entire metro fleet free of charge, whose maintenance was transferred to a multinational with the State to bear all costs? Is this what you are presenting as a solution to the problems that you have caused for companies? The PSD has come here to do a profession of faith in delivering to the economic groups that you have tried to impose on yourself a retaliatory attitude of complaint to hang out now in the electric of this discussion on the business discussion model.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u154	That's good! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u155	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u156	I will finish, Mr. President. But you cannot disguise that your real concern is not the model of management — the authority / central power. It's not, it's all you don't hand over to the private. That is what your problem is and that is what you cannot cover up, Mr President. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u157	You have the floor, for one last request for clarification, Mr Hélder Amaral, of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u158	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Carlos Santos Silva, I would like to start with two questions and the first one has nothing to do with the model. We had a clear model, more funding,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u159	It's very good, as we just saw.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u160	...interoperability, intermodality, innovation, and even we would have something new, solving the problem of the Euro MP Vital Moreira, because we had the transport door to door, also taking public transport to the rest of the country, the public transport service. But that model has been reversed, it's not here anymore. What's in issue is what's on the table today and I'd like to ask about the legality of what's on the table. It's just that, according to the agreement I have here and that you guys are. Members also have, the Government is passing on to the City Council of Lisbon a set of responsibilities, from the outset clause (m), which is in fact the public transport service, heritage, workers, universal access to service, social and territorial cohesion and intermodal articulation. Then I have other more interesting things here. In the light of the new management model, it is up to the City Council of Lisbon to define the public service and to pay compensation. The President of the Metropolitan Transport Authority, according to the law and the statutes—and the law is organic—, on any amendment to this new model, and here there are 11 generic clauses on amendment of the model, has to give a binding prior opinion. And Mr President of the Metropolitan Authority says: « I have so far been waiting for government information on the amendment, the government says it lacks time, but we are available to give the opinion». So until today there is no such opinion. It is clear that the Portuguese Communist Party has missed this meeting with the Authority for Mobility and Transport (AMT ) — curious number, curious number...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u161	Now! ...Now! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u162	The question is: can the President of the House announce discounts, network changes and recruitment by Carris without prior binding opinion or, as the President of the Mobility and Transport Authority says, the model is as it is today, the company belongs to the business sector of the State, protected by Mr Minister? Therefore, Mr President of the House, so far today, the only thing you are doing is the electoral campaign, of course, authorized by Mr Prime Minister, because you do not legally have the possession of Carris. This is the first doubt I'd like you to clarify. [[No more! All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u163	You've already won the second place on the list of Deputy Assumption Crystals!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u164	The second question is even more curious. As you say, and well — this demonstrates it well — this management is solid as gelatin. What does the Portuguese Communist Party say?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u165	Go to the Rules of Procedure!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u166	It says: 'Well, we want a parliamentary assessment because we do not agree with the municipality of Carris.' I can even agree. But what does the PCP say? It is not about the cessation of work and what you are going to propose are amendments, something more or less similar to those of the Port, i.e. the authorities involved and the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u167	You don't read, you don't know what you're saying!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u168	But did the Communist Party not also present a parliamentary assessment of the Port model? After all, what is the parliamentary appreciation for the model of the STCP if what you want is exactly the same model? They've been caught in the curve, it's true, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u169	Ask the PSD question there. The political declaration is not ours, it is the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u170	It is the coherence of the CFP, and since you are not consistent, as you are not solid, we are watching this ambush and this stagnation. It is that even the unions are against the Portuguese Communist Party — see that curiosity of today’s days there, which proves incoherence. Tell you what you want in particular and we will be here to discuss the specific points, point-by-point, and the legality of this issue. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u171	To reply, Mr. Carlos Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u172	Mr President, Mr Bruno Dias, I thought that the honourable Member would explain the difficulties facing the Portuguese Communist Party with its trade unions, who have already decided to make demonstrations at the door of the CFP headquarters.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u173	I'd even explain it, but I wouldn't understand it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u174	Mr Bruno Dias, on historical debt issues, indeed, it is historic, it is not today, it is not yesterday, it is not four years ago, it is many years ago, and what I wanted to tell you about this... [[PCP protests.]] [[Be serious!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u175	...is that I usually like numbers and dedicate myself to numbers. Now, it happens that the honourable Member has accused us of finishing our governance with 20 billion debts.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u176	But you're wrong? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u177	If nothing had been done in the public transport sector in Lisbon, do you know the value of the debt it would have with the end of the mandate at the end of 2015? It was EUR 24 billion. [[Yeah... forget to say that! Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u178	More—and this is said by the Court of Auditors, it is said by UTAO ( Technical Unit for Budgetary Support ), it is said by international creditors, it is said by the IMF ( International Monetary Fund ), it is said by OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) : do you know what the savings were in this area of transport? It was 800 million euros! It was EUR 800 million in savings over four years.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u179	Is that what you call savings? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u180	But the previous government did more. It is that the Social Pass +, for example, became assigned due to the lack of income, not because of age, not because of being young or older, but because of the families who had needs.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u181	Let's say that to the one who didn't pass!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u182	He did all that and, in these circumstances, Mr President, even though he tried to take back what was the government action of the previous government, we are very proud of our work.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u183	Is that the approach you can bring? Can't you get better than that?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u184	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u185	I will finish, Mr. President. The PCP has a view of these things that is that their problem is not the quality of service. You have no problem with the service, with the users getting to work hours, that is not your problem. Your problem is capital ownership. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u186	For you, the important thing is whether it's public or not, and everything that's public is good, what's not public is bad. But our concern, honourable Member, has to do with sustainability, it has to do with quality of service, it has to do with concern for users, if users arrive at work in hours, if users can walk. That is why we have concerns and, therefore, that is what has been done.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u187	Have respect for the people who have to go to work in the morning!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u188	The gentlemen. Members have a concern about the capital but the Socialist Party has another concern, which is "someone has to pay", i.e. debt over debt, interest on interest and someone has to pay. But now there is an additional concern of the Socialist Party, which is the electoralist concern. The Socialist Party, in addition to the « someone has to pay », is now committed to winning the Chamber of Lisbon and has decided to bless the President of the House of Lisbon by delivering Carris. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u189	Mr João Paulo Correia has the floor for a political statement.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u190	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The World Bank's index on the logistics performance of 160 countries recently revealed that the competitiveness of national ports fell 10 places between 2014 and 2015. of the indicators concerned, the quality of the infrastructures was the most deteriorating in 2015. This means that national port competitiveness sank in the years of previous PSD / CDS governance. The truth is that the port sector has never been a priority of the previous government. The truth is that there was no strategy for a sector that offers enormous potential for the country's economic growth. The truth is that there was no transformative vision for a key sector in supporting economic activity, especially the exporting sector. The truth is that the fall in the competitiveness of national ports in 2015 resulted from the deliberate de-investment to which the previous government voted the sector. For all this, the Strategy for Increasing Port Competitiveness 2016 - 2026, presented by the Government a few days ago, emerges with increased importance, on the one hand, to respond to future needs of cargo movement, on the other, to boost industrial activities related to the economy of the sea. The first strategic objective is to adapt port infrastructures to the increase in demand and size of ships and to links to interland. Another objective is to aim at improving the operating conditions of port units. The third strategic objective is to create technological acceleration platforms and new skills in ports, with emphasis on the transformation of the port sector into a service area for the supply of liquefied natural gas vessels. essentially, the strategy presented seeks to prepare our ports for traffic growth prospects and for changes in ship fleets. Private investment shall correspond to 83 % of the total, public investment to 11 % and Community investment to 6 %. The largest share of the investment lies in solving the problems of immediate capacity, with a particular impact on the containerized load, given that it is the type of load that grows most globally. The port of Viana do Castelo will receive investments to improve road accessibility,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u191	10 000 €!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u192	... to deepen the navigation channel in order to double the number of vessels using the shipyards, and to build a dry dock dedicated to ship maintenance and repair. The port of Leixões will have a new container terminal so that it can receive larger vessels, which, of course, will lead to a very significant increase in the load enlivened in this port unit. The port of Aveiro will have as its main bet the construction of an intermodal terminal, considered essential for the acquisition of investment for logistics units. The bet on the port of Lisbon passes through a new terminal of containers to be built in the Town Hall of Barreiro, a private investment that will considerably increase the potential of port activity. The investments planned for the port of Setúbal point to the improvement of maritime accessibility, through the deepening of the navigation channel, and to the strengthening of rail accessibility. The product of these investments in the port of Setúbal will allow the access of larger ships and will also increase the daily train traffic to double. The main actions for the port of Sines aim at the new expansion of Terminal XXI and a new terminal of containers. These investments will strongly leverage the response capacity of this port infrastructure, in view of the dynamics and opportunities imposed by international maritime navigation. The bet on the Azorian port of Praia da Vitória will fall in the potential associated with its role in the transport of cargo between the European continent and the United States, within the framework of the European project of the motorways of the Sea.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u193	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u194	Finally, it is important to highlight the planned creation of liquefied natural gas supply systems in the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira, of course, a determining factor for the expansion of this energy source in the North Atlantic. According to the port community of Lisbon, the Strategy for Increasing Port Competitiveness will be the fundamental engine for the development of national ports, since it incorporates vision and has conditions to congregate, in its concreteization, the commitment and will of all. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: No 3. the quarter of 2016, the tonnage of moved goods increased by 9, 7 %. in the same period, they entered the national ports 3941 vessels, which resulted in an increase of 0, 6 % compared to the previous quarter. The port of Sines moved a total of 13 million tonnes, with an increase of 21 % compared to the previous quarter. International freight traffic increased by 1 %. The commercial ports of the continent have all moved a total of 85 million tonnes between January and November 2016, reflecting an increase of 4, 1 % in comparison to the value observed in the same period of 2015, and represents the best brand of always in volume of load enlivened in the homologous periods. Equally important for the results obtained and for the increased competitiveness of national ports are the Single Port Window and the Single Port Bill. These events strengthen the competitive capacity of national port management by simplifying, dematerializing, reducing administrative costs, reducing context costs and saving time, especially with regard to ship immobilization time. The Port Competitiveness Enhancement Strategy is a decisive bet on the growth of our economy and job creation. The former government has devalued and disinvested in this sector. The consequence of this policy has led to the loss of competitiveness of national ports at the international level. We cannot fail to take advantage of the enormous potential that the port sector offers to our economy. Portugal has a privileged geo-strategic position, the Atlantic facade is included in the route of global trade and international trade based on maritime navigation has a favorable setting. For all this, the conditions for the promotion of port activity and for the increase of the industries related to the economy of the sea, such as shipbuilding and repair, logistics, fishing, aquaculture, sport and tourism, are met. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u195	Mr João Paulo Correia, two Mrs. Members, you will therefore inform the Bureau how you wish to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u196	Together, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u197	So you have the floor, first of all, Mr Cristovão Norte.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u198	Mr President, Mr João Paulo Correia, I am grateful for the opportunity of your intervention on a crucial issue, the importance of which for the country is undisputed and recognized and should be, as I have said, assessed in the light of the opportunities that are expected for the growth of maritime transport, the size and load capacity of ships and an advanced and modern vision of the country, taking advantage of our endogenous resources and valuing the strategic position that we enjoy, for the benefit of the economy and employment. Having said that, I do not agree with the honourable Member when he marks the four years of previous governance as lost years on this matter. All the data clearly contradict him. On the one hand, we have known, over these four years, robust growth in moving loads and, on the other, significant gains in port efficiency and cost reduction, which has contributed to our ports being more robust and competitive and to contribute to the growth and recovery of the country. In the face of this challenge, the former government, after a serious and well-structured debate, which co-operated many partners, created PETI3 + ( Strategic Plan for Transport and Infrastructure 2014 - 2020 ). This programme has now been revised and replaced by the Strategy for Increasing Port Competitiveness, and it is good to know, from now on, what the differences, Mr. We understand: by 2020, PETI3 + provided more interventions, more public investment, more job creation, more private investment. This strategy, on the contrary, by 2020 has less intervention, less public investment, less job creation. Therefore, it is perhaps better justified why PETI3 + was « more». It is then that you came and transformed something that was a more credible and more ambitious strategy into something that is smaller and offers lower conditions for the development of ports in Portugal. I would like you to clarify what has been the basis for this plan to be revised downwards, for structural infrastructures to have come out. And, by the way, now...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u199	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u200	... that we are dealing with this issue and that the Minister of the Sea has not yet told Parliament this new strategy, it is also good to know when they are doing what they promise. They promised, for example, and the honourable Member mentioned it, concerning the port of Viana do Castelo...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u201	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u202	I will finish now, Mr. President. The port of Viana do Castelo has registered 10 000 € in the State Budget for 2017. Is that how you're going to invest EUR 2500 million over the next 10 years? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u203	Mr. Deputy, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u204	And when the government concludes, as it has already stated that it would conclude by the end of 2016, the renegotiation with the PSA, in order to create conditions to value...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u205	Mr President, you have long exceeded your time. I'm asking you to finish, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u206	I shall end in a sentence, Mr President, with your condescendence. As I was saying, when does the government conclude the renegotiation with the PSA to complete the renewal of the grant of the port of Sines? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u207	Mr Hélder Amaral has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u208	Mr President, Mr João Paulo Correia, could make a very short request for clarification, in the following sense: tell me, Mr, a single measure of those who have announced that it is implemented.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u209	It's been announced now! How is it to be implemented? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u210	It's just VV. Ex., as now became clear, they do less than what was foreseen in PETI3 +, in terms of investments, but they make a set of ads, and the Minister also got tired of making announcements, from the beginning of the Single Port Window, the Single Port Bill, the renegotiation and renewal of the harbour concessions. With regard to port concessions, the Court of Auditors says that they have an excessive internal rate of return — in some cases up to 40 % — and this is therefore a good time to renegotiate. Is it done? Is it done? And what is the new shareholder TIR of some concessions? Then, you said the market has grown. It's true, except for a port. Leixions, Figueira da Foz and Aveiro beat records on records, except the port of Lisbon.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u211	By chance, with Legions it's not like that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u212	According to November 2016 data, the port of Lisbon records less than 1 %. He's already getting better, but still, he's losing market share. And you know why? Because the only decision of the Government that you now support with the Portuguese Communist Party, which has therefore reacted, is the solution of the port company in the port of Lisbon. In other words, the transfer of management was to the unions, maintaining unacceptable royalties, which not even ILO (International Labour Organisation) considers fair, for a group of workers who make the port of Lisbon uncompetitive. Lose Lisbon, loses the Lisbon economy, loses the national economy, because we are talking about a tremendously important port to complement all other ports, either in the railroad movement or in any other movement. Therefore, you have announced a lot of things about ports, and with some of them I agree perfectly, but we need to give more competitiveness to the Portuguese ports. It's all done in the sea, you need to do everything on earth! It is essential to create and speed up a port'simplex'. But, Mr President, if you tell me, of all these measures you have announced, of all these investments, which is being implemented, I would like to thank you. And I will not even ask you any questions about the new container terminal, because in this matter I have not yet understood what the government's policy is. If you wanted to help me and explain what you wanted to do at the Barreiro or elsewhere, you would also thank me. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u213	After all, Mr Bruno Dias also applied for clarification, so you have the floor, Mr Dias.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u214	Mr President, Mr. João Paulo Correia, there are three or four central issues which the CFP would like to put on this fundamental issue that it brought here, concerning the port sector and national development in this area. The first question is the need to take an integrated, harmonious and coherent view of the development of the port sector. We cannot have national ports fighting against each other, competing against each other. When the differentiation of productive profiles, the complementarity of logistics systems and their effective articulation are truly assumed as a strategic factor, then the country will have a more coherent, stronger and better conditions to respond to the needs of the country. Second question: the need for effective coordination at the level of strategic planning and territorial development between, on the one hand, national ports, investment and bets that, for them, are decided and, on the other, our productive apparatus, its development and its insertion as an integral part of the logistics chains. It is that we cannot have a country only to import or see goods pass and therefore the productive apparatus, national ports and the whole national logistics system must be effectively articulated. Third question: the imperative need to combat precarious labour in national ports and to defend stability, quality, rights and working conditions in port work. It is not with precarious work, enslaved, poorly paid, which, by the way, the CDS-PP has once again defended, that the national ports will distinguish themselves in the international context and in the global economy that is spoken about, is by the quality, by the specialization, by the differentiation and by the confidence that economic agents can deposit in our national port and logistics system. Therefore, all this ends up converging into a central and indisputable issue, which is the way in which the business of concessions in the sector has been conducted to economic groups and how successive governments have carried out a policy of delivery of this sector, these strategic areas of our economy, our development and our sovereignty, even to economic groups, in clear damage to public interest and national interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u215	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u216	In conclusion: the question that has just become the confluence point of all these problems is that of the strategy of development, defence and guarantee of national sovereignty and public interest in this matter. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u217	You have the floor to request clarification from Mr Heitor Sousa of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u218	Mr President, Mr João Paulo Correia, I would like to begin by congratulating you on the importance of the issue that has brought to this House, the strategy for the development of the national port sector. I cannot fail to congratulate you on this and to ask you whether you have any ability to influence the government to bring up the documentation referred to, which is part of this document of great importance, to the Assembly of the Republic,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u219	By the way...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u220	... in order to be able to contact more closely with the whole document and the whole strategy that you have presented here, in your main lines. After this small request, what I wanted to ask you, Mr, were some clarifications on very concrete points. The first request for clarification is made, perhaps, because I do not know the document as a whole. There were some national ports of regional scope, which you did not mention. I am talking, for example, about the port of Figueira da Foz and the port of Faro, in the Algarve, where there were, and there are, movement of goods and which have some threats that imped upon them. For example, for the port of Faro it was announced that the cement terminal will cease to work. So there are a set of threats to these second-line ports, let's say so. What I would like to ask you, Mr, was whether you could help us clarify the role that the Government believes is reserved for these second-line ports from the point of view of this port activity strategy. The second question has to do with the announcement that you have made about the construction of the new container terminal at the Barreiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u221	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u222	I will finish, Mr. President. This poses a problem, which can now be configured, which is its articulation, within the framework of the management that the administration of the port of Lisbon has to do in an integrated way with the terminal of containers of the Barreiro. As this articulation can be done, it can be seen, since this presupposes, I believe, that part of the current movement of containers on the north margin is transferred to the south margin. Unless it is only expected that this new container terminal will accommodate only the activity growths that can now be prefigured at this time. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u223	To reply, Mr João Paulo Correia of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u224	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank all the questions raised. I would begin by saying that the strategy for increasing port competitiveness has been presented many days ago and I am sure that the document will fully reach Parliament as it has happened. This also justifies the reason why no investment has yet been made from those announced: it is that the strategy has been announced days ago. On the questions raised by the right, by the CDS-PP — very concerned about the internal rate of profitability of some concessions, of some terminals — I would like to remind you that even the Court of Auditors found it very strange that the internal rate of profitability of the Lexion Container Terminal in 2013 for the period of its government was 17 %. It is a contract or concession that has to be renegotiated. However, this does not concern them, what they are concerned about is to question the future, but, as far as your mandate is concerned, they did not understand to question it. Regarding the Estaleiros and the port of Viana do Castelo, today, curiously, on the day of this debate, there is news that the Estaleiros Navais de Viana do Castelo have 80 million orders and 240 more direct jobs on the street. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Well, for those for whom I have been recently ridiculing the investments that will be made in the port of Viana do Castelo and those that have already been carried out, during the year 2016, by the port administration, I believe that this gives a great degree of confidence in relation to the national strategy. I would also say that the weight of the economy of the sea in national GDP is 2, 5 % and the strategy points out that the industries related to the economy of the sea have a higher weight in national GDP. I think we all agree that this strategy, presented by the government, is the one that must be adopted and that it has long been necessary. Mr. PSD, Mr. Cristovão Norte, recently put a question, trying to counter the claim that in the time of his government there was no loss of competitiveness, but the World Bank Study says that Portugal fell 10 places in competitiveness only in one year. And the indicator that contributed most to this fall was that of port infrastructures, which means that there were not the investments needed in port infrastructures to make national ports more competitive and more competitive internationally. You did not do so because, ideologically, you do not believe in this sector, which is a key sector to support economic activity, particularly the exporting sector. [[PSD protests.]] In addition, Mr President, in terms of the investment that you have promised for this sector, in terms of what your mistrust is with regard to the investments that are programmed in strategy 2016 / 2026, you certainly have to give us the benefit of doubt because you have actually put these investments all in the drawer. I would end by saying the following: with regard to investments in the second line ports, which was one of the issues posed by the Left Block, is a concern that is certainly within the framework of what is the national strategy. The Socialist Party is also paying particular attention to this aspect, in this chapter of the national strategy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u225	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u226	I'm done now, Mr. President. Mr President, the document will come in a few days and we will be in the Parliamentary Committee together to debate and observe the Government's proposals. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u227	Before we begin the last political declaration, I would like to ask the Secretary of the Bureau to make an announcement to the plenary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u228	Mr. President and Mr. Members, you have entered the Bureau and you have been admitted, Bill No 56 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Adopts a transitional measure to reduce the special payment on account provided for in Article 106. that of the Tax Code on the Income of Collectives. [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u229	For the last political statement of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u230	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : ended yesterday the public debate period of the forest package presented by the Government. The importance of the forest comes not only from its very significant dimension in the area but also from its environmental, economic and social relevance. The confrontation with the adverse realities of our forest cannot give rise to any inability to transform the present picture, a picture of progressive degradation. The fire surges that have hit the country, with increasing fires, in the area and in time, have led to an immediate response, concentrated in the direct fight against forest fires to the detriment of the prevention, planning and management of the forest. The approval of Decree-Law No 96 / 2013, the RJAAR (Legal Regime for Arborization and Rearborization) by the previous government has aggravated the conditions for the expansion of risk in the forest, through the so-called liberalisation of eucalyptus plantation. Consequently, there was an increase in the area of eucalyptal in the territory, thus exacerbating the potential risk, and this situation clearly contradicts the sense of the Forest Policy Basics Law, a forest photograph, black, with the PSD and the CDS-PP in large terms. The reasons why, at the end of 20 years of existence of a Basic Law on Forest Policy, the situation in the Portuguese forest remains close to the chaos must be found in the interests of the ordering and management of forests and preference for liberalisation, leading to an increasingly unique option, centered on eucalyptus. Decree-Law No 124 / 2006, which establishes the national system for the protection and prevention of forest fires, never had objective conditions to be fully applied. For example, there has never been a requirement for logging and reforestation actions that cannot give rise to a continuous stain of the same forest species greater than 50 ha. Faced with reality today, we know 11 years after the enactment of the well-known Decree-Law No 124 / 2006, which is still not the situation of the forest in the national territory. in the proposals for a forest package submitted by the government the announced ban on the increase of the area of eucalyptus does not have a legislative correspondence that ensures this objective. After all, we ask: what instruments are there now to impose effectively that continuous forest stains of the same species do not exceed 50 ha? What measures are presented for a limitation on planting of highly inflammatory species? And what measures are planned for effective and effective support for the planting of indigenous species? What coherence exists between a policy to contain the expansion of the eucalyptus if, at the same time, a generous line of financial support to the cellulose industry is opened for support in the eucalyptus plantation, in the order of EUR 18 million? The essential issue in the area of the forest, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is the organisational capacity of small forest producers, which are the main structure of our forest, in order to promote their professional and profitable management. The proposal which the Government is proposing from forestry management companies instead of creating mechanisms that guarantee this organisation of small producers, giving them decision-making capacity, opens the doors to major production intervention, dominated by the cellulose industry, and the financial funds that will look at the forest only in a view of domination over small property, with the aggravating of giving it tax benefits. The measures proposed by the Government, which provide for forest management companies, do not meet the needs of the forest. Especially where small property prevails, these measures will contribute to a concentration of properties through private companies, by confiscating small holdings or by calling for their sale, with exemptions from IMT (municipal tax on the onerous transfer of real estate) and reduction of IRS (tax on the income of natural persons), or by the mechanism which provides for what is called « land without ownership », and we also do not consider the exemption or reduction of IRC (tax on the income of collectives ). This is a policy that runs counter to the fundamental reality of our forest, does not protect small producers and favours production outside of environmental issues and the defense of indigenous forests. The way in which we see it has to be the reverse, that of the planning and management of the forest, which guarantees small producers an intervention in accordance with their interests, and that of the promotion of a fair price for wood, which fights the monopoly that is currently exercised by the industry linked to the eucalyptus, which, strangely, or perhaps not, keeps prices identical to those practiced a decade ago. The proposal for the creation of the single counter for registration, which articulates the various existing platforms, is correct but requires small producers to require a complex and unattainable operation of rigorous georeference of extremes will result in failure, as has been demonstrated by past experiences, in fact. This situation is inadmissible and must have an expeditious solution, according to the objectives of the State, which should be a generic identification of properties rather than an exhaustive delimitation which will create obstacles to the objective of establishing a simplified register. We do not agree with a concept of land without known owners. This concept can only lead to an administrative expropriation process, which does not even have constitutional coverage. What exists, in fact, is the problem of land without use. The solution is the creation of a land bank that manages these plots...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u231	You've outlived your time, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u232	I will finish, Mr. President. He said that he should manage these plots, and he could even use the compulsive lease figure. The Left Block defends a demanding path of public intervention in the forest, guided by the Basics of Forest Policy Act, based on forest regulation measures and requiring public and private entities. Finally, we advocate an orientation that promotes native species, diversifys the rural mosaic, conditioning the exploitation of invasive and exotic species.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u233	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u234	A new way of cultivating the forest must be affirmed. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u235	Mr President, the Bureau records four entries for requests for clarification. How do you intend to respond?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u236	I shall answer together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u237	Mr João Ramos, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u238	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin by congratulating Mr Carlos Matias. Mr President, when we speak in the woods it is very common in the Assembly of the Republic to speak in consensus, since this is a sufficiently consensual matter. In fact, it was this position of consensus that allowed the adoption of the Basic Law on Forest Policy, from a proposal from the CFP, without votes against. These consensus was broken by the former PSD Government and the CDS, he already referred to it, particularly when he passed the law of eucalyptization, to respond to the demand for celluloses, or when he changed the Law of the Baldies, opening the way for his surrender to private people. This reality of the forest proves that there are consensus is not enough to solve the problems. What has been lacking in forestry policy is the decision of the government and the allocation of the necessary resources. The example of the registration is very clear. Today, in Portugal, there is no registration because the millions needed to do so have not been affected and because public services do not have the capacity, in terms of human resources, to respond to this large task. Therefore, without the allocation of resources, there will not be a forest policy capable of solving the problems of the forest. But this allocation of resources cannot be exclusive to industries, as you said, which even distribute dividends and have subsequently made EUR 18 million available. So what about the other problems in the forest? And the other forest, beyond the eucalyptus? What about phytosanity, forest health problems? Don't those have millions to solve their problems? Mr President, something seems to be missing from the CFP when a set of initiatives is presented and there is no talk about the price of wood.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u239	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u240	I conclude, Mr. President. The price of wood is fundamental to solving the problems of the forest. The wood business is dominated by an almost monopolie and therefore it is fundamental to move in prices. I ask you, Mr, to agree with this position of the CFP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u241	Mr Mauricio Marques, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u242	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I naturally begin by greeting Mr Matias for bringing this issue to plenary today. I also welcome it because a Member who supports this government at the end of the public debate says that the reform of the forest of this government does not solve the forest problem. I welcome you, Mr President, in fact recognizing that the forestry reform of a government supported by you does not solve the problem!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u243	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u244	I would also say that the question raised here and the way you have listed it also do not solve the forest problem, Mr, because your view of the forest is exactly the opposite of what it must be. The Portuguese forest must be based on the profitability of forest resources throughout its line, including forest waste. I found that in his speech nothing was said about the recovery of forest waste. I ask you, honourable Member, how do you do forest prevention if you do not value forest waste? I remind you that in 2006 a Government of the Socialist Party launched a public invitation to tender for the installation of waste recovery plants and only 50 % were occupied. Do you know why, Your Honor? Because you have not properly valued waste, just as you are now not properly valuing prevention. And I want to tell you that you only value it if you value the waste! Also the policy that has followed the whole extreme left is exactly contrary to what must be followed in the Portuguese forest. The Portuguese forest must have size, which it does not have, and the small owners must be helped to achieve size in order to have profitability. Today, those who invest in the forest do not see the investment that makes profitable, rather.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u245	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u246	I would like to say to you, in conclusion, that the proposal made by the Government that you support only here because we have had the greatest time of fires in recent times and that is also your responsibility, because we have, in due course, warned about the lack of forest prevention. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u247	To request clarification, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u248	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group of the Greens, I would like to congratulate Mr Matias on the subject he has raised in this political statement. I would like to tell you that, unfortunately, Mr President, it is not actually possible to speak of forest today without talking about forest fires. And whenever we talk about forest fires, we talk about the need for the prevention component to grow, even to help the combat component. But for this, there must be and policies are implemented that invest in this component of prevention. However, one of them, according to all the reports on forest fires and this prevention component that has already been approved in the Assembly of the Republic, is a central issue, which is precisely the creation of a more resilient forest, which does not form the dimension of forest fires to which we have, unfortunately, witnessed at all times of fires. Mr Deputy, in this sense, it is essential to bet on native species and to reduce the area of eucalyptus. This is a matter to which the Greens have devoted deep attention and, precisely for that reason, in the joint position we have signed with the Socialist Party, we have asked for this matter to be written. in this sense, what was agreed was that there was no increase in the area of eucalyptus, just in the sense of betting on this resilience and in the greater propagation, let us say, of indigenous species. In fact, we consider, like Mr Deputies, acting on the one hand, but on the other hand betting on a strong investment already announced by the Government, in the cellulose industry, particularly in the productivity of the eucalyptus, is a contradiction.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u249	Madam Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u250	I will finish, Mr. President. We have not been able to understand this announcement by the government, and I also want to say that we are now in an even shorter position. Why? Because the former Government called for strong axes in the Portuguese forest, in particular with the logging and reforestation regime in which it promoted the expansion of the eucalyptus, cutting EUR 150 million into the PRODER(Rural Development Programme), therefore a more sustainable investment for the forest.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u251	You really have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u252	They were very bad policies, but now it is important to start a new cycle.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u253	To request clarification, Mrs Júlia Rodrigues of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u254	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we naturally welcome Mr Matias and the Left Block Parliamentary Group for bringing to this debate the issue of forest and forest reform, given the importance it has in the national context. It is worth noting that 10 of the 12 diplomas in participating forest reform were the subject of a wide public discussion, which ended yesterday, as Mr Matias said. We have to face the question of the rustic register. We can point out that the 90% ownership of the rustic property is not identified. We must leverage the professional management of forests, acting in the prevention of forest fires. We trust a legislative solution to the baldiums, restructuring their management in the sharing committees and meeting the needs and requirements of the mountain territories. It is important to clarify again that investment in eucalyptus is related to the increase in productivity of eucalyptuses and not to the increase in their area, as has already been clarified by the Government. As for the new framework of incentives and tax exemptions for the forest sector, in the context of good forestry practices and forest fire protection, we believe that it will promote the profitability of forest assets and make the forest more attractive. Finally, I would like to reaffirm that the public consultation is in order to be able to open the dialogue between all of us, so that we can all identify opportunities for improvement. This reform identifies constraints and seeks to solve them. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u255	To reply, Mr. Carlos Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u256	Mr President, I begin by thanking the questions addressed to me. I renew a question: why, 20 years after the Basic Law on Forestry Policy and 11 years after Decree-Law No 124 / 2006, does the forest continue in the situation in which it is?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u257	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u258	This is the problem! Here we have to find innovative answers, which give the « wing blow», which completely change the situation we have experienced all these years. On the one hand, an aggregate of management is required to increase the profitability of small parcels because without this, the profitability of celluloses remains, Mr Maurício Marques. The forest is profitable for the celluloses and for the paper industry, it is not for the small owners, and that is why they stop using it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u259	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u260	Then, the rural mosaic needs to be diversified. A new paradigm is needed. It is not enough to avoid monoculture. The diversification of the rural mosaic must be promoted. Mr Ramos is right when he refers to the price of wood. We need to intervene there. It is necessary to provide the Ministry of Public Services capable of intervening on the question of registration, but another model is needed for its realization. As for the model set out in the Government proposal, there are no public services arriving. That doesn't work out. Another model is needed and the Block will present a proposal to that end.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u261	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u262	Forest reform does not solve the problem, says Mr Mauricio Marques. No, but it's always better than creating a problem, as the PSD created, making it worse for as long as I don't know how many years. The law of eucalyptization was to aggravate monoculture, expand continuous stains and worsen the situation that comes from long before, it is true. Must the forest be profitable? You have, however, already said, it is being profitable for the cells and it has to be profitable for the thousands or millions of holders of small plots of forest, which do not use them precisely because they are not profitable. These are the ones that have to reach profitability, but never have arrived, and much less in your government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u263	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u264	I agree with Mrs Heloísa Apollonia that it is necessary to bet on indigenous species in the diversification of the rural mosaic. It takes a record, it is true, Mrs.Júlia Rodrigues, and increase the profitability of the eucalyptus. That is why we are in favour of a new RJAAR which must explicitly provide for a control of forest-dependence operations, which the Government's proposal does not indeed do but should do. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reiterate what I started by saying: there is a need for a « wing blow », to change completely. More than that, you've proven that it doesn't work out. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u265	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the period of political declarations. We move on to the second point of our agenda, which consists in the joint assessment of petition No 84/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Urgent replacement of the railway service in the Ramal da Lousã ( Pedro Júlio de Almeida Poiares Malta and others) and of draft resolutions 29 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the urgent replacement of rail mobility in the branch of Lousã ( The Greens), 489 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends the reactivation of the Mondego Metro project and its inclusion in the railway investment plan 2016 - 2020 ( BE) and 635 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The beginning of the works of replacement, modernization and electrification of the Ramal da Lousã ( PCP ) For an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira of the Parliamentary Group of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u266	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to welcome, on behalf of the Greens Ecological Party, thousands of citizens who have subscribed to the petition on the replacement of the railway service in the branch of Lousã and, in particular, all those who have come from so far to attend the works and who are filling the galleries,... [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]] ... thus proving that they are not indifferent to the severe injustice that continues to affect the generality of the population of a whole region. As mentioned in the petition, the railway branch of Lousã was used by more than one million passengers per year, a branch serving citizens of the municipalities of Gois, Lousã, Miranda do Corvo and Coimbra. The branch of Lousã represented, in fact, a mobility instrument for the populations absolutely essential, especially for travel to work, but also for access to public services. And seven years after its irresponsible dismantling, vain promises and scandalous abandonment of works involving millions and millions of public euros, it is time to look at the branch of Louisiana with eyes to see. For this reason, and in keeping with the people's legitimate concerns, the Greens are presenting today a legislative initiative which, in our view, meets the objectives of this petition. After the populations are seven years waiting for the train to solve the created situation, ensuring a mobility solution that will respond to their needs. The proposal of The Greens is that a railway solution be replaced in the rebuilt channel of the old branch of Lousã, creating the conditions necessary to ensure once again, as soon as possible, a railway mobility solution to the populations between Serpins and Coimbra and the National Railway Network. But it is still necessary that, until the replacement of rail transport, the alternative road service should be guaranteed to the populations. Finally, The Greens propose that an urgent study be prepared to find more adequate answers to mobility in the urban area of the city of Coimbra and in connection with the Hospitals of the University of Coimbra. [[Applause from The Greens and BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u267	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Parliamentary Group of the Left Block, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u268	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Greetings, on behalf of the Left Block, the O Trevim newspaper and all petitioners. What they ask us is justice and respect, nothing more than that. For more than 20 years, the State has made a commitment to the populations of the municipalities of Lousã, Miranda do Corvo and Coimbra, in order to quickly replace the old diesel engine, which linked them to a secular branch, by rail transport with the proper quality of any European urban mesh such as that which unites Coimbra to Lousã and articulate this railway with an urban line that structured the public transport system in Coimbra. successive national and municipal governments have passed and the commitment has always been over. More: In 2009 the infrastructure of the Ramal da Lousã was dismantled and the roads were removed. In 1997, 1999, 2000, 2004, 2007, in each year that has passed since then, shift governors guarantee on foot that « now it is now that it is ». But it was never and the populations of Lousã, Miranda do Corvo and Coimbra realize that what was promised to them was, after all, an ambush and what really happened was just an irresponsible fraud of the public record. in fact, after more than EUR 1000 million in investments carried out, the populations of the promised train continue to be deprived and this is added to 30 demolitions in the heart of Baixa de Coimbra, in the immediate surrounding area of what has been classified as world heritage, the pretext for installing the surface subway channel and which is now ready to be transformed into an aberrating central road for road transport. This is an overview of the aggression of people and history and a case of political responsibility, which should not go unnoticed in this plan.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u269	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u270	I'm done now, Mr. President. In 2011, this Assembly of the Republic adopted four resolutions that enshrined the resumption and completion of the works, but already in 2015, the PSD/CDS Government announced the prominence of a solution that would not work on the rails. Such a coup cannot make a move and what is required of the current government is that it is not, in any way, pleasing to that direction. Therefore, the Left Block today presents a draft resolution urging the Government to immediately restart the completion of a modern, comfortable and environmentally balanced railway line between Lousã and Coimbra. We accept that this process may go through phases, but the absolute priority must be the replacement of the railway corresponding to the old branch of Lousã. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u271	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u272	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I welcome on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, the population of Lousã, Miranda do Corvo and Coimbra present in the galleries and who have travelled here today to attend this debate. We welcome the struggle they have pursued with persistence and commitment to the right to mobility and regional development to which they are entitled. That's what we're talking about today. [[PCP applause.]] It says the petition that "it cannot be accepted that a hundred-year line is destroyed here, seriously affecting the mobility of so many thousands of people. (...) Signatories claim that the railway line is returned to this region and that the transport service is reintroduced as soon as possible». The voice of the population is echoed in the proposals of the CFP. Almost a year ago a draft resolution was approved in this House saying : « 1. Extinction of Metro Mondego, SA ; 2. Return of its heritage to the public railway and municipal domain; 3. Replacement, modernization and electrification of the line of the Lousã railway branch". What has been decided here and, according to the draft resolution we present today, are urgently beginning this year of 2017, the works of replacement, modernization and electrification of the line of the railway branch of Lousã. I also want to say that the PCP rejects any solutions that contradict what has already been approved here, or solutions that attempt in some way to resurrect or rehabilitate the project that was precisely responsible for dismantling the Lousã railway branch. The choice for a light solution rather than a railway is not appropriate to the characteristics of the region and the needs of the users, because it would be more expensive for users, slower, would not have the ability to transport goods and would therefore be much less friendly to the environment. In addition, it would not establish the connection to the national rail network, which is a determining issue for us. Therefore, I say here, with all clarity and firmness, that the CFP is with the demands of the population and defends the replacement, modernization and electrification of the line of the railway branch of Lousã, a centennial line, claiming that this work should start in 2017. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u273	Mr Hélder Amaral of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u274	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I would obviously like to begin by congratulating the petitioners and the people of Lousã who are accompanying us here and by saying very briefly simple things. The Government that the CDS supported had a solution, using Community funds, recognizing the problem, recognizing the difficulties. It was then defeated by a parliamentary solution that supports the Government, which adopts solutions and here makes statements with clarity and firmness. So I want to tell you that the problem is solved, because I believe that the Portuguese Communist Party of three: either asks for the resignation of the Minister, if this does not comply with the resolution, or presents a motion of censure to the Government, or, on the limit, together with the Left Block and the Greens Ecological Party, will not vote for the next State budget if there are no words and the work is not completed. [[Protests from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u275	You come here to play with people's lives!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u276	Mr. José Manuel Pureza, it is not worth being here tearing our clothes and making promises to the people! You support a government solution—without your support the government does not exist—and you approve draft resolutions for what? To recommend to the Government? Oh, my God! Do you support the government and then make recommendations? Oh, my God! [[PCP protests.]] You have the solution to the problem in your hands and will have the support of the CDS for that solution. Please draw the proper conclusions and respect the people of Louisiana, doing your work, but they cannot come here « give one on the nail, another on the ironing ». That doesn't work! Do you want to solve the problem? They have all the mechanisms to do so at your disposal. We will follow this solution, out of respect for the people of Louisiana. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u277	Mr Pedro Coimbra spoke on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u278	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party has long been next to the populations of Miranda do Corvo, Lousã and Coimbra, here well represented today. We are on the side of the populations in the intransigent defense of a mobile solution for all those who have been deprived of a long-existing means of transport. This is a long-standing problem that has to be solved urgently, without demagogy and with pragmatism.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u279	Then let's go!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u280	The Government, led by the Socialist Party, is committed to finding a solution to ensure the investment that is still lacking. I remember, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, that this is a problem with several leaders, but there are some more leaders than others and that in 2011 in the election campaign, the then candidate to Prime Minister Pedro Passos Coelho, was in the district of Coimbra saying that on the day following the elections, if he was elected Prime Minister of Portugal, the works would be resumed immediately.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u281	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u282	Well, the matter was taken so seriously that the former Government was not even able to submit in Brussels studies competent for investment to be supported by European funds.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u283	What about Paulo Campos? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u284	The former government resigned from this responsibility and abandoned these populations. It was the current government that, in September 2016, contracted a study to LNEC to assess a solution for the mobility system of the World that allows its candidacy to the Community funds, finally, to carry out the investment quickly and guarantee a means of transport to the populations. Thus, the government, together with the three municipalities, the autoarchs and the populations, has developed several actions that aim to ensure a decent mobility system between Serpins and Coimbra, which includes the urban line and urban requalification of Baixa de Coimbra and the riverside area. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u285	For an intervention, Mrs Fatima Ramos of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u286	I would like to congratulate Mr President, the ladies and gentlemen. Members, but above all I welcome those people who are here and who represent others who have stayed in Louisiana, Miranda do Corvo and Coimbra but who wanted to be here today. [[Protests by MPs of PCP Carla Cruz and Rita Rat.]] People who come to appeal to justice, to the conclusion of the investment, people who had a system of transport that worked. Subsequent governments promised that they would replace it with a more modern system and in 2009 and 2010 the Government of the Socialist Party — and many of the current members of the Government were part of the same government — started the works, cheated autoarchs, deceived those people, promising that the system would move forward. He went ahead with the works, spent more than 100 million euros and, after a few months, ordered them to suspend. [[PSD applause.]] He did not respect people, he was irresponsible, he squandered public money, and that is what we do not want. We want the work to be completed. We are not talking about a new investment, we are talking about a line that existed, an investment that was taking place and was interrupted by the Government of the Socialist Party. Mr. Pedro Coimbra, there are responsible and responsible. There are those who have destroyed it, who have dismantled it, and these are in the government today, supported by the Socialist Party, the Greens Ecological Party, the PCP and the Left Block. [[PSD applause.]] So what I ask you to do is to join, sit at the table and resolve. That's how it is, as I show you in these pictures, it's like this, it's destroyed, it's over 100 million euros spent to be like this now! That's how it's at Coimbra's door. It's like this! This is unfair, this is irresponsible! [[PCP protests.]] So what we ask of you is that the works begin. They choose the solution that seems to you better, sustainable, but that responds to those people, who deserve respect and deserve to be treated with dignity. A little while ago they talked here about dismantling the transport system in Lisbon and Porto. What's that next to that? What's that? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u287	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u288	That is why, Mr President, I appeal to the Members present in this Chamber: we will not blame anyone, we will join together, we will support and we will hope that whoever is in the government will resolve it. It is that whoever is in the government has an obligation to resolve. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u289	Mrs. Members, the joint assessment of petition No 84 / XIII ( 1 ) is concluded. ( a ) and draft resolutions 29 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) ( The Greens ), 489 / XIII ( BE ) ( 2. ( a ) and 635 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PCP ). Let us turn to petition No 103/ XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — They call for the decriminalization of assisted death ( Civic Movement « Right to Die with Dignity » ). Mr. José Manuel Pureza has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u290	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are making history in this place first of the plural debate and democratic decisions. Thanks to the initiative of the civic movement for the decriminalization of assisted death — whose representatives we welcome gratefully— a debate of unprecedented intensity and depth on the rights of all people at the end of life opened in Portugal. The Assembly of the Republic itself is the first part of this debate. I could not give up on being, because the really essential question that is raised by this petition is a question of fundamental rights: whether, in a pluralistic and tolerant society, and in a secular and democratic state, life is a right or an obligation, if we are obliged by the law to have to endure a path of physical degradation, dependence and atrocious suffering, which we do not wish and is grotesquely contrary to the life that dignifies us in our own eyes, an end of life that disrespects, that farming, that violates the values and standards that we choose to lead us throughout our existence. The choice to endure suffering is legitimate and responsible. But the obligation to bear is a prepotence, a totalitarian imposition. And, therefore, what this petition calls for is for us to legislate with courage and with prudence, with determination and with wisdom, to expand the field of personal freedoms and not to continue to impose, in an intolerant way, that we should have an end to life that we do not want and much less choose. This discussion is therefore among those who insist on the intolerance of imposing on others their conception of life and who, in a tolerant way, want to be respected in society and enshrined in the law the right of each free and consciously making his choices, as he has always done throughout life, precisely at the most demanding moment, in which it approaches the end, fatally, and plunged into the most inhuman and unnecessary suffering. Decriminalization is the only way to respect the free choice of all. Decriminalization permits, but does not oblige anyone; on the contrary, criminalization prevents and obliges everyone. This is a difficult debate, certainly. But democracy requires us to regulate difficult things much more than easy things. And democracy cannot be hostage to blackmails that shake fear to prevent regulation and leave everything as it is. Now, what is in this particular case is the condemnation to die in agony and not to really die while we recognize in ourselves the dignity that we have always been and as we have always been. We're not in a hurry. But they do not count on us to allow the discussion to go on forever, because respect for freedom and dignity requires us to make decisions. Therefore, on behalf of the Left Block, I commit here that our response to the civic challenge of this petition will be the timely presentation of a bill that despenas the assisted death. It's just that we're on the side of rights and fighting for them. [[Congratulations from BE, PAN and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u291	Mrs. Isabel Alves Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u292	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group begins by greeting the petitioners. It's 8427. It is shown that the matter is concerned, is present in society, calls for broad discussion and debate. For this reason, the petition was the subject of extensive analysis in a working group, in which people from all quarters were heard for an accurate reflection. this working group resulted in an exhaustive, serious, viewpoint product that was heard with total respect by each other. A special word to remember the contribution of Professor João Lobo Antunes. The petitioners urge us to discuss and promote the legislative initiatives necessary for the decriminalization of assisted death, asking « the decriminalization and regulation of assisted death as a concrete expression of individual rights to autonomy, religious freedom and freedom of conviction and conscience, rights enshrined in the Constitution », which « defines life as an inviolable right, but not as irrevocable duty ». in its perspective, «assisted death consists in the act of, in response to a request of itself — informed, conscious and repeated — anticipating or shortening the death of patients with great suffering and no hope of healing», constituting for them « a right of the patient who suffers and to whom there is no other alternative, by him considered acceptable or worthy, to put an end to his suffering». It defends itself in the petition that it is “a compassionate and charitable act”. Assisted death may cover « two modalities – be the patient himself to self-administer the lethal drug (assisted drug suicide) or be administered by another person ( euthanasia) ». in one or another case, from the perspective of the petitioners, « is always carried out by a doctor or under his guidance and supervision ». They understand more that « assisted death does not conflict or exclude access to palliative care and its decriminalization does not mean less investment in such care ». They recall that « the informed consent, the right of acceptance or refusal of treatment, the condemnation of therapeutic obstination and the early directives of will (vital will) » are expressions such as « the individual rights in the field of self-determination of the patient have been progressively recognized and safeguarded ». The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group does not have a definite position on this. We recognize the importance that it assumes for many people and we are Members and Free Deputies in our conscience, when we are called to vote on some bill that may arise in this House. Legislation on this matter is not easy. The place for this choice, or for the refusal of that choice, is this House, because we are at the heart of fundamental rights. Debates in freedom, with respect for the positions of each and every one, without absolutisms or diabolisms concerning whom it is favorable or who is unfavorable to the petitioners' claim. [[P.S., BE, and Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u293	Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u294	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I want to congratulate the petitioners and praise the way that was followed by the 1. the Commission, in particular the setting up of a working group which has carried out a serious and responsible work. We hope that this path and this procedure will be repeated in relation to the last petition, with more than 14 000 subscribers, which wants the densification of the ban on euthanasia, this petition which has recently entered the Assembly of the Republic and which has to be treated in the same way and with the same dignity as the petition we are now discussing. We also hope that the high and responsible way in which this petition has been discussed in Parliament will also be repeated in the discussion of this last petition, which will prohibit euthanasia. And in order for this to be possible, it is necessary for this discussion to be held without sectarianism and based on the knowledge that decisions on a matter with the delicacy that it contains must be taken away from political and party disputes. It is, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, this is neither metamorphose in a party debate, in which the left is thinking in a way, the centre thinks so-so and eventually the right will not think so. Faced with the possibility of legislating about euthanasia, we, the legitimate representatives of the Portuguese people, are not before a decision that contains strict ideological cleavages sensu. This is a matter that goes through society and parties in a cross-sectional manner, without looking at political affiliations or sympathys, or even religious options. In Portugal, we underline, there are Catholics who are petitioners for euthanasia and, at the same time, atheists and agnostics who have subscribed to another petition that now defends its prohibition. I am sure most people will have doubts — many even! — like the honourable Members. This issue confronts us with the deepest and most unspoiled side of our human condition: the moment of the end, of our end as people. This is not the only moment that can define us as human beings, but it will always be a fundamental part of the memory that will remain from what we have been. The PSD Parliamentary Group believes that this is a sensitive matter, which appeals to each Member's conscience when it comes to making the legislative decision, which will not happen for now. But for the PSD, this freedom of vote will have to be exercised with a true free conscience, and it can only be acquired when accompanied by better information and clarification. The PSD Members, already on 9th, here in the Assembly of the Republic, will hold a colloquium on this issue, for which we invite all the Members of all parties.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u295	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u296	We will hear different opinions, we will listen to specialists from various areas, starting an informative and formative debate, which enables us to reach a well-founded decision for each one of us. Let us therefore hold this debate for which we are all called. The PSD will always be at the forefront of this discussion, without populism or solutions facilitated and in balance, but with the seriousness and responsibility that the Portuguese used to wait for us. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u297	Mr António Filipe has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u298	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, I comply with the signatories to this petition. This is the first time that the issue of euthanasia is the subject of debate in this House. Of course it won't be the last. Today we start a debate on a topic of great importance and complexity, which is intended to be deepened and serious, without prejudice or demagogy and, above all, carried out on the basis of tolerance for the different convictions which will certainly manifest themselves. It is not in this three-minute debate for each parliamentary group that the subject of euthanasia will have the debate that is required. It is true that the preparatory phase of this debate included the valuable participation of several personalities who helped us reflect on the matter, which made it very evident its complexity and the diversity of opinions and perspectives surrounding it. For the CFP, the debate on euthanasia cannot be a trench war between those who want to see the recognised and regulated euthanasia in the law at any cost and those who want to prevent this recognition and regulation at any price. We are talking about something as important as human life, the most fundamental of all fundamental rights. The debate on euthanasia is not a debate of religious against atheists. It's not a legal debate against doctors. It is not a debate in which any of the positions has the monopoly of clarity. This debate should take place in respect of differences of opinion and its future outcome should be a common denominator that brings about a reasonable consensus in Portuguese society. However, in order for today's debate to make a useful sense, there are some aspects that we want to express now. We assume that all those involved in this debate have as their primary objective to alleviate the unbearable suffering of human beings. It is a generous goal, which we all certainly share. But we do not view euthanasia as a substitute for palliative care. Regardless of future legislative solutions to be adopted following this petition, nothing can replace the need for an effective response, which still does not exist, in terms of palliative care. A second point that we want to make clear is that we will never accept solutions that can lead to an economical drift from euthanasia as a way to alleviate the burden on health or social security. None of the subscribers of this petition went that way, but there is no lack for this world to suggest it or even to defend it. A third point that should be emphasized is that we do not take the legislative solutions adopted in other countries, including those which so far regulate euthanasia as unquestionable models. The balance of these experiences is yet to be made, but we do not deny that the news that comes to us, particularly from the Netherlands, is somewhat disturbing as to the real possibility of a drift leading to the banalization of euthanasia. We must therefore continue to reflect. We need to talk to each other and exchange experiences. The experience and opinion of health professionals is crucial, because it is on their shoulders that there is an inalienable responsibility in this matter. Euthanasia has a historical past that no one here wants to repeat, but that cannot be ignored.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u299	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u300	I shall conclude, Mr President. Euthanasia was used as an instrument of eugenicity and of suppression of people to whom dignity was not recognized to live. If we remember here today, it is to make it very clear that this is not what we are talking about, but also to remember that, if there are angry living conditions, there are no outrages because all people are equal in dignity and rights. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u301	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto from the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u302	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I congratulate the subscribers of the petition for the legalization of euthanasia, recognizing their contribution to this important debate. We make this discussion constructively, affirming our principles with clear respect for those who think differently. in this discussion today about the content of the petition, unfortunately brief and necessarily incomplete, but which we wish to see in depth and extended to the whole Portuguese society, there are some points that deserve our concern and even disagreement and that we would like to comment. It has already been said here and we want to stress that this is not, at all, a religious debate, as one might want to make one believe to emphasize the subtle prejudice that, being a religious debate, it would be a minor, retrograde thing, a prejudice that confuses the desirable secular society in which we live with an anti-religious society.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u303	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u304	The debate, although politicized, is a debate about the values we want in modern society to respond to the suffering of the most vulnerable. We understand that it is not necessary to choose to be killed by another to have dignity in death—in fact, being killed by another person is probably the less worthy way of dying. We defend dignity as an intrinsic and irrevocable heritage value of the human being, so for us, regardless of the circumstances, there are no lives worth living and lives that are not worth living. It is life that must have dignity to the end, and today there are strict indications and clear means of intervention that do not allow the lives of people with advanced diseases to be prolonged and suffering at the expense of more suffering with useless treatment. in a literal matter of life or death like this, with the relevance that surrounds, there are no inaccuracies and euphemisms that send the debate, add demagogy and little clarify. For example, it is not a question of discussing a right to die or an assisted death,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u305	... it is, yes, to create a supposed right to be killed by another person. It is not a worthy death here, we would be wrong if only the murders on request defined dignity in death. It is not just about covering end-of-life situations, because in the articulated petition there are no clearly excluded situations of suffering but not in the end-of-life, such as situations of mental illness or situations of existential suffering. It is believed that there will be exceptional situations which, after that, the articulate itself does not allow everything to be confirmed. The possible legitimization and application of the proposed proposals would lead to an apparent normalization of killing on request and to a trivialization of what we consider to be a backwardness in our society. What would be imposed would be a view taken of the human being, which would have dangerous consequences in the common good, because that is what happens when such laws are made in the few European countries that have them and allow thousands of people per year to be killed, people with mental illness, people who have not asked to die, people without terminal situations, people tired of living. Mr President, I shall conclude by saying that we are defending a modern society that has the foundation of human rights in the protection of life, a society that does not rule out the most vulnerable and expands their horizons. For us...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u306	You really have to conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u307	I shall conclude, Mr President. For us, the problem of suffering in the end of life is caring for and not eliminating the sufferer. We're against euthanasia. We will be in this debate, which must be deepened in a serious and enlightening way, with our ideas and proposals, consistent with our principles and always positive. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u308	For an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u309	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We begin by thanking the Civic Movement 'The Right to Die With Dignity' for the courage to initiate the delicate social debate on the decriminalization of drug-assisted death and for having brought into Parliament a petition to that effect. The debate on assisted death is not a debate on constitutionality, it is a debate on the open and evolved society we want. It is not so much a medical debate or a death debate. The debate on assisted death is a debate on the human rights of those who are at the end of the line and it is a debate about how they die, whether with agony, atrocious and intolerable suffering or, on the contrary, in a dignified, respectful, free manner, because worse than dying may be the death process. Much more than a pain or other physical or psychological symptom, suffering is a dependence, an indignity, a lack of being, a lack of meaning. It is agonizing to suffer because you suffer, to suffer because if you are forced to suffer, to suffer because you know that after suffering you will only suffer. But this petition does not only speak of dignity, it also tells us of autonomy and freedom. in a rule of law, each of us should be allowed, both in the most trivial aspects and in the most intimate areas of human existence, the power to conform our lives according to our own convictions and our world view, and it should not be imposed by third parties. Now, in the current situation this is exactly what happens: patients are prevented from deciding, they see their autonomy conditioned by legal restrictions. The State is, in a way that we qualify as unconstitutional, to dictate to people how they should manage their lives. The current model of medical act, based on autonomy and informed consent, implies that the doctor informs the patient of his/her health status, discusses with him/her the treatment options available and takes into account his/her will about the destination to be given to his/her life, either through the administration of a treatment, that is, in our understanding, for an option of drug-assisted death. We are not defending that the patient's will is absolute, but, yes, that the patient is attentive in cases where someone, consciously, enlightened, repeated, clinically incurable and in intolerable suffering, can define the conditions that he wants for his death. The decriminalization of assisted death does not exclude or conflict with palliative care.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u310	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u311	But the truth is that these do not completely eliminate the suffering of patients, for which the State must have an answer. It is extremely moralistic and paternalistic to tell people that they are about to die that they receive such good care that they do not need to have the option of euthanasia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u312	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u313	by decriminalizing and regulating assisted death, we will be giving concrete expression to individual rights to autonomy and freedom of conviction and conscience. We will, in essence, be defending a fundamental human right that is to be fulfilled. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by reinforcing that the NAP will be presenting a serious and responsible bill in the future on this matter. We believe that an evolved political class...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u314	Mr. Deputies, you have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u315	... it is available to integrate new social concerns and settle discussions in more humanistic perspectives. Once again, the general feeling of the Portuguese population must be met. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u316	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u317	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Greens, I would like to greet all the petitioners who have submitted this petition to the Assembly of the Republic. We believe that this petition ends by opening a debate in the Assembly of the Republic on assisted death that the Greens want it to be, in fact, a fruitful debate, a debate that has still begun but that we want it to be consequent. in this sense, I would like to say that the Greens are ready to respond to what the petitioners urge the Assembly of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, The Greens identify themselves with the claim of this petition and we believe that we are today discussing fundamental rights and freedoms of people. It's about the dignity of the people we talk about. We believe that decriminalization and regulation of assisted death will enable a person, in the use of his or her full conscience, will and choice, to reject that the atrocious suffering resulting from a disease that is accompanied by the word 'fatal' is the characteristic of a life where he or she becomes forbidden to live. To give an answer to a statement made here today, the Greens would like to say that the life worth living is the choice of each one, when they tell us that the miserable suffering is what we are offered forever, even to the foretold death. Decriminalizing and regulating assisted death leads to the fact that no one is bound by atrocious suffering, with foretold death, without a cure prospect—we have to repeat many times.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u318	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u319	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, some steps have already been taken in the rights of choice of the patient, such as the vital will, the possibility of rejection of treatment, the condemnation of therapeutic obstination, the informed consent. To continue to provide answers for the dignity of people is, in the perspective of the Greens, crucial. But I would also like to reaffirm something that has already been said today: this decriminalization and regulation of assisted death cannot, under any circumstances, replace palliative care in any way. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have just started: the challenge that the petitioners bring to the Assembly of the Republic will have a response from the Green Group, which will contribute to this debate and, essentially, to its outcome with the presentation of a legislative initiative, which we will shortly deliver to the Assembly of the Republic. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-01.u320	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have concluded the discussion of petition No 103 / XIII ( 1. ( a) — They call for the decriminalization of assisted death (Civicus Movement « Right to Die with Dignity») and, with it, the order of business today. It is up to me to announce the agenda for tomorrow's sitting, beginning at 3 p.m. of the first point is the general debate of Bill No 46 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Change the exercise of trade union freedom and the rights of collective bargaining and participation of public security police personnel with police duties. in the second point, law No 47/ XIII will be discussed in general ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the disciplinary status of the Public Security Police. The third point follows the general discussion of Bill No 48 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 22 / 2013 of 26 February giving judicial administrators access to various databases, including the computer record of executions, tax databases and social security. in the fourth point, the proposal for law No 49/ XIII ( 2 ) will be discussed in general. ( a ) — Approves the law on public health. of the fifth point is the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.os 364 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amend Law No 37 / 81 ( Nationality Law ) ( PSD ) and 390 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Alter the Law of Nationality, approved by Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October, and the Regulation on the Emolumentary of Registers and Notariado, approved by Decree-Law No 322 -A / 2001 of 14 December ( BE ). Finally, draft resolutions 430 / XIII ( 1 ) will be discussed together. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of free access to national museums and monuments for young people up to 30 years, during weekends and holidays ( PS ), 636 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take the necessary measures to promote access of all citizens to national museums and monuments, especially for people up to 35 years of age, establishing free access to weekends, holidays and Wednesdays and extending the use of new information technologies ( CDS-PP ) and 640/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Free access to national museums, national monuments and other entities with public participation ( BE ). The session is closed. [[It was 18 hours and 17 minutes.]]
