ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our session. [[It was 10 hours and 3 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. Before we get on the agenda, Secretary Duarte Pacheco will read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members, he entered the Bureau, and was admitted, Bill No. 496 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amendments to the legal-laborative regime and extension of social protection of work by shift and night ( BE ), which falls to 10. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u3	Mrs. Members, today's agenda consists of a debate with the Minister of Internal Administration, under Article 225. the Rules of Procedure. To initiate the debate, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has the floor by the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u4	Mr President, before using my debate time, I would like to ask the Bureau about the conduct of the work.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u5	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u6	Mr President, the time grid that will be used in this debate assumes that we believe that it will be initiated by the parliamentary groups, from the largest to the smallest, which do not support the government. Is that so?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u7	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u8	I believe that these interventions will follow the same order and logic as they followed the first time we had a debate of these, at this legislative session, with another member of the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u9	It is that at the last legislative session, I do not remember that there has been a debate with this grid. But it might have happened. Anyway, Mr. President, I justify...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u10	on January 19, i.e., a short time ago, we had a debate with Mr. Minister of Health with this very process.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u11	Mr President, but the reason for my question is only one: it seems to us that the grid has been drawn up in order to separate the intervention of the parties that support the government and those of the opposing parties. Now, as there are parties that are not represented in the government but who support it, we believe, Mr President, that we are very close—and it is only a call for attention—from a fraud to the Rules of Procedure, because the parties that are not represented in the Government will do the times of opposition parties, when in fact they are parties to the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u12	It's unbelievable!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u13	Mr President, we take note of your comment and, for the purpose of future debates, we shall take it into account at the Conference of Leaders. at this moment, however, I do not think there are any conditions for making a change to the establishment. You have the floor, Mr President, to speak in the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, Minister for Internal Administration and Mr. State Secretarys, first of all, I would like to discuss the question of the proposal for a law on the union freedom of the PSP. This bill is full of mistakes, it is full of unconstitutionalities, of inadequacies, some of which have already been recognised by you, Minister, here in plenary session. However, some news in the media have caused some confusion and my intervention here is to clarify any confusion about the procedures to be taken. This is a proposal for a government law, from which any amendment proposals will have to be from the parliamentary groups which support the government rather than the PSD. The PSD expects these amendments, corrections of these inadequacies and unconstitutionalities from the government because it will not be sure that the PSD will take this initiative. I would also like to know your opinion, Minister, on the increase of 6, 2 % in 2016 of violence in the school environment. Do you have any explanation for this phenomenon? Does it not consider that the decrease in effectuals in the Safe School in 2016 had influence on this negative result? Also the Minister's promise, already made several times, to place 600 more police on the street, had two essential moments: on 28 September 2016, on 1. the Commission said that these 600 police on the street would be operational by the end of 2016, but that did not happen ; and in December, it said that these 600 police on the street would be operational by March 2017. Mrs. Minister announces a lot, but recently. This time it's for when? As for the incorporations of 800 new PSP agents, it was also announced several times...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u15	Mr President, I ask you to make a slight interruption by the following: it has been habitual, in grids where there is the possibility of exceeding two minutes, the Bureau is totally liberal. Yesterday, however, at the Conference of Leaders, it was requested that, in certain debates, in which it counts the pace of the debate and the relative importance of the order of inscriptions, this liberalism should go at most until twice as long as it is planned. Therefore, when the time for your intervention reaches four minutes, you would ask the honourable Member to conclude your question. It is a decision of the Conference of Leaders.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u16	But I'm entitled to the replica, according to the grid that's been distributed, right?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u17	Yes, of course, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u18	Thank you very much. So for now, I conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u19	I could have continued until 4 minutes, Mr. There was no problem.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u20	I know, but I'd rather reply, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u21	Mrs. Minister of Internal Administration, I take advantage of this to greet you and your team, here present. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u22	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning to all. Turning directly to the questions, I will say, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, that I do not know what unconstitutionalities he speaks of. There are, of course, some differences, some less happy wording in a single article, which is Article 3. the, which I have already acknowledged, having expressed complete willingness to review this wording or to keep it as it appears in the current regime. Moreover, in all matters relating to the criteria of representation, there is only harmonisation with those contained in the General Law on Public Works and the Labour Code approved by the previous Government. With regard to the issue of an increase of 6,2 % of violence in the school environment, it is a fact that, above all, there is an increase in some occurrences, but this certainly has to be explained in a more comprehensive and multidisciplinary context. It is not only a question of security, it is also a behavioral and social issue. But there was no reduction of effectuals in the Safe School.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u23	There, there!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u24	With regard to the issue of placing more than 600 police on the street, there are several measures in this regard. One of them would be outsourcing the masses. But that's not all. I can give you, as an example, two other measures, namely the SIGESTAME ( Weapons Transport Management System, Ammunitions and Explosives) which will allow you to release many police officers who are on explosive escorts or, then, the operation of the 112 Conor ( North Operational Centre ) which will release 140 police. The mass externalization process is taking place, but not at the pace I would like, because at the moment, only 15 bars and one mass and extinctions were outsourced because of the proximity and little influence. Public tenders are under way, as is the law, and what has been recorded is some lack of market operators' ability to compete.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u25	I ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u26	As far as incorporations are concerned, he speaks in 800, but I don't know what number that is because he's nowhere. however, I limit myself to recall the following: in the time when the PSD was government, in the previous government, there were only two incorporations, one in 2013 of 299, and another in 2014 of 100, i.e. almost 400, which gave an average of 100 police per year in the PSP for a period of 4 years. So, honourable Member, I don't know where you went to look for that 800 magic number, which doesn't exist anywhere. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u27	You have the floor to reply, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, who will have twice as much time, that is, not one minute, but two minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u28	Mr President, firstly I note that the Minister practically considers that the proposal for a law on trade union freedom is almost right and recommended, denying her own speech here on errors, inefficiencies and, indeed, unconstitutionalities, in Article 3. o. As for violence in the school environment, there is no doubt anything that has to do with the reduction of effectives in the Safe School. This decrease exists because there were 735 PSP and GNR agents highlighted for this function and are currently about 700. So there was a decrease and we thought there was a relationship here. As regards incorporations, the Minister has announced them twice. In fact, it announced 300 for March 2016 and 500 for September 2016. The incorporation of 300 to March 2016 took place, but concerned a competition opened by the previous Government. So that was accomplished. But the incorporation from 500 to September 2016 is that it did not take place and, therefore, it was not fulfilled. Knowing that, by 2020, about 6300 agents will leave the PSP, a true bleeding, are there any incorporation planning? And, if there is, does anyone who has been desperately lacking in incorporations during 2016 deserve confidence for any plan of incorporations by 2020?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u29	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u30	Mr President, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, with regard to incorporations, he confuses admission to courses with incorporations. currently, there are indeed 300 in the PSP and 300 in the GNR in training, who will leave this year and who, if going through their courses, will be incorporated. I want to remind you: the exits are, in fact, predictable, you already knew how many were going out, but if we were to see the planning made by the PSD when it was government, we found that in 2012 there were zero incorporations, in 2013 there were 299, in 2014 there were 100 and, in 2015 there were zero incorporations. That is, in four years, there was an average of 100 incorporations per year. So, Mr. Deputies, you do not assume responsibilities to those who do not have them. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u31	You now have the floor on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mrs Sandra Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u32	Mr President, Minister, Secretary of State : from now on a little over two months, perhaps until a little earlier, we will recall again and heighten the effort, most of the time self-denied, which characterizes the Portuguese firefighters. And it's about the fire department I want to talk to you about. As soon as the fires begin to be destroyed every year a little more in this country, these men and women will again be heroes. Until then, and throughout the rest of the year, they are usually invisible and forgotten. Mr. Minister, firefighters, as you know, can only remain in the command structure until they are 65 years old. But they can only retire at 66 years and three months. What they do for a year and three months to survive is the criterion of each’s imagination. They have already got 25 % bonus for time counting for retirement purposes, which then went to 15 % and then went to zero. They were the only ones getting out of the exemption regime that is applied to the security forces. Even last March 31st, two projects were approved in this House which also include the SEF (Foreign and Border Service) and the Judicial Police in this exceptional regime. Since the last legislative session we have been insisting on this matter and the response we have received from the Minister and the Secretary of State is that a diploma will be drawn up for the status of a fireman's career and that this situation will also be studied and planned, and a solution will be found for it. But, Minister, these men and women have been waiting for years for this solution and this response has been constantly postponed. So, Minister, I ask you this concrete and direct question: when is this status and exactly when is the solution for the retirement of firemen? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u33	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u34	Mr President, Mrs Sandra Cunha, I think you are talking only about professional firefighters, because we cannot confuse them with volunteer firefighters who often have other professions. As far as professional firefighters are concerned, a preliminary draft is currently being finalized for the creation of professional status, which, with regard to access to reform, is in line with much of what is currently in force for the forces and security services: it must be submitted to mandatory consultations and also, necessarily, trade union negotiations with the representative associations of professional firefighters, but we hope to have shortly, that is, even this year, the approval of this status of the professional firefighter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u35	Mrs. Sandra Cunha still has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u36	Mr President, Minister for Internal Administration, « still this year» is a truly vague answer, until a solution has been promised in the first quarter of this year. This year goes until December, so - correct me if I'm wrong - this is probably something that will be dragged by the end of the year and possibly only for the year will the professional firefighters see this situation solved. Professional firefighters in the humanitarian associations of volunteer firefighters also have this type of problem. I do not know whether they will be included in this solution, since their retirement age is even more rigid, depending on the positions they reach. in the basic posts, it goes up to 50 years and, of course, not all will be able to join leadership positions, where you will be able to go until later. So, what's the solution for these people? Will these diplomas be changed? How will this situation be resolved? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u37	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u38	Mr President, Mrs Sandra Cunha, as regards volunteer firefighters, we are also currently negotiating a proposal for the creation of the status of the volunteer fireman, in addition to a new voluntary fireman code, for a very simple reason: there is a lot of extremely dispersed legislation, so we will have to make an effort to codify and, of course, these issues of reform will have to be equationed. The situation of professional firefighters is different and we will have to have a great deal of involvement of the municipal chambers, because, in the background, they are officials of the municipal chambers and therefore the negotiations will necessarily have to take place with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities. I can't tell you if it's gonna take a long or short time, I don't have that foresight. however, the work is taking place and there is a proposal that seems to me to be consensual, but that must also be negotiated with socio-professional associations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u39	On behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Telmo Correia has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u40	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Minister of Internal Administration, regardless of some of the issues that have already been discussed are important, I would like to talk to you about a different subject which has been on the agenda and which concerns us all. Unfortunately, it has been almost daily the basis of concern, sometimes with less gravity or without dead ones, as has happened recently to a sporting event, sometimes with dead ones, many dead ones, including children, which leaves us very appalled. I am obviously talking about the problem of terrorism. Fortunately, our country has not had such an event until today—and yet, we all hope that it will continue, surely. But the Annual Internal Security Report itself, having a globally positive view of the evolution of crime — which is good, is good for all of us — does not cease to warn that the degree of threat or concern in our country can and should be addressed in another way, more seriously. The CDS presented a set of proposals on this matter and, basically, what I would like to ask the Minister was whether or not she was following us on these concerns and how far she is accompanying us. As far as the external border is concerned, we have not had any more recent episodes, but we have already had several security episodes, particularly at our international airports. The Minister has already told us about legislation on this matter, or at least the revision of the plans, and she would like to ask you what you can tell us about it. On the other hand, in terms of the coast, we have two different plans, the Safe Coast and the SIVICC (Integrated System of Surveillance, Command and Control), among which there is, eventually, a joint problem that has to be thought, weighted and viewed. Madam Minister, what can you tell us about this? It seems to us that this subject of terrorism has to be combated in a prevention logic and we know that some police units, particularly the most prepared and specialized, have training in this area. Our proposal, Mrs Minister, is that this training be extended to all nearby police, and that all elements may have training, which is not of a very high degree, is clear, but that it enables them to acquire sufficient knowledge to be careful, detect and react to such events. Finally, Madam Minister, allow me to express my astonishment and criticism that the Minister is coming to this debate today without bringing a proposal on the subject of metadata. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u41	Only I, in the last year and very little, have asked you questions about this for three times. The Minister is undoubtedly a qualified jurist, and so it would be natural for her to dedicate herself to this matter and bring us a legal response to a difficulty which has been raised from a constitutional point of view. In other words, the Minister told us that they were studying the case; a few months later she told us that they were studying again; however, the Minister for Foreign Affairs came to say that he had an idea; recently, Mr Prime Minister came to say that there was a document that was going to be circulated; now we arrived here today and nothing. We have tabled a proposal, Minister. I ask you: will you join the CDS and also present a proposal on behalf of the Government to have at least two to discuss or not to do so? [[PS laughter.]] Do the government think it's funny to present a proposal on metadata? It's not funny, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, it is very important, it is very serious and it is very serious! They shouldn't laugh, because we're talking about a very serious risk. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u42	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u43	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Telmo Correia, of course, we must seriously monitor the concern about terrorism in Europe because, unfortunately, Portugal is not immune to this phenomenon and I cannot assure you, here and now, that there will never be an attack in our country. That is why, Mr Deputy, since the time of the attacks in Paris last year, a great police of mixed visibility has been implemented—which is very visible for those who walk in Baixa or in places where there are large agglomerations of people—, not only with special units, therefore, with the intervention body, but also with many police officers to the countryside and nearby police. As far as training is concerned, I can tell you that, since 2014, both in the GNR and PSP there is precisely a module for preventing terrorism to identify radicalization phenomena that is served to all police in their basic training. There are also specific training modules for police who are affected by the so-called proximity police, as well as specific training for other special units. In addition, both the PSP and the GNR disseminate to all the effective precise guidelines so that, when they walk on the street, they detect all kinds of behaviors that may raise doubts. As for the issue of the Safe Coast and the SIVICC, these are two completely different systems. The Costa Segura was implemented by the Ministry of Defence to assist mainly the commanders of the captains in search and rescue operations, in SAR ( search and rescue) operations, precisely following the incidents of Figueira da Foz. The Safe Coast is not confused with the SIVICC, which is a maritime border control system—and also land, but we have no external land border—that allows, above all, to identify deviations from patterns of ships and ships, in order to assist on earth the police in identifying, for example, situations of drug trafficking and criminal offences of that kind. This is a much more advanced system, also much more expensive, which is linked to the European Border Surveillance System, of the European Union. As regards metadata, the Higher Information Council has already twice spoken on this matter and has also examined a bill which will soon be scheduled for consideration by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. We must therefore overcome the difficulty pointed out by the Constitutional Court in a wise and intelligent way. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u44	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for a reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u45	Mr President, the Minister of Internal Administration, since this is a reply, I shall keep on the same subjects and on the same subjects and in the second round we will talk about others. Madam Minister, in relation to the Costa Segura and SIVICC programmes, we know them, but the question is, in essence, whether there is no waste, if the joint is sufficient, is necessary and if it could not be better. That is basically the point. With regard to prevention and proximity police, we know that there is some training, but I must also tell you, Mrs Minister, that in our contacts, in our housework, so to speak, the information we receive is that, in the GNR, this type of training is very scarce and, even in the PSP, it does not reach all the agents, at least to the degree that they themselves would understand enough, and that is why we raised this issue. Thirdly, the Minister, turning to the question of the airport, to which she did not reply, one thing that tells us the top leaders of the elite units of our police, so to speak, is that, for example, at the Lisbon airport, which we all know—but I can also speak at Sá Carneiro airport— often the agents do not know what is behind the biombos where there are commercial areas, maintenance areas and others. In other words, in an emergency situation which I repeat — and play in the wood — I hope it does not happen, they do not know what they will encounter. Therefore, this airport situation is also very important. Finally, as regards metadata, Mrs Minister, I would like to say to you that, of course, the government, when presenting its proposal, will join us together and well! — to ours, which has already been presented. There may then be detailed questions, but I tell you, Minister, that there is no doubt in our part that there is no other possible solution but to hand over to the criminal section of the Supreme Court a group of specialised judges to be able to decide on this subject by means of a specified, defined prosecutor, request and authorization. This is the only way. Therefore, Madam Minister, I am amazed and ask you why the government has taken so long to reach this same conclusion.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u46	I would ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u47	That is our proposal, Mrs Minister, and I almost bet that the government will not be as different as that, and may have some amendments. Mr Minister, the Government's proposal should have been put forward — I keep this idea — but here we will be available to discuss, to dialogue and to reach a consensus that I hope will solve this problem. I repeat, at European level, in 24 or 25 countries, Portugal is the only one — Switzerland is currently changing this situation — whose information service does not have access to metadata. It can't be, Mrs. Minister! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u48	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u49	Mr President, Mr Telmo Correia, in fact, did not reply to the question of the external border. Since the beginning of this month, systematic control has been carried out to deal with databases, particularly at the level of control of the citizens of the European Union at the external border, which did not exist in the past. at this time, by virtue of a regulation of the European Union, Regulation No 300 / 2008 – which has been densified several times by implementing regulations, the last of 2015, we are forming a team where the security forces are integrated, of course under the coordination of ANAC ( National Civil Aviation Authority ) and the authorities that have competence in this area, to strengthen precisely the issue of infrastructure security. The managing entity has also taken a number of measures, such as removal of obstacles and strengthening of surveillance. Of course, this is a matter that concerns us and we need to make a review of the PNSAC ( National Civil Aviation Safety Programme ), which is the national airport security plan in order to address not only the terrorist threat but also other types of threats that exist. As far as metadata is concerned, I agree with you, Mr President, but the solution is not just the question of judicial control. As you recall, the Constitutional Court's judgment had two aspects : the question of judicial review, and this, yes, I agree with you, can be perfectly resolved through the establishment of a section specialized in the Supreme Court, but also the question of how to include this type of procedure in the concept of criminal proceedings, as the result of the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. For that, we have to have a more imaginative solution. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u50	It is the time of the CFP Parliamentary Group to ask questions. Mr. Jorge Machado has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Ms. Minister of Internal Administration, before asking questions, I cannot fail to mention that the PSD / CDS-PP government, the former Government, has largely left public services in a very difficult situation...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u52	I was missing!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u53	...and the security forces problems were no exception. There have been years of cuts in investment, with de-investment and degradation of facilities, equipment and cars. There have been years of cuts in wages and attacks on rights, disinvestment in staff recruitment, which have left the services and security forces in a very difficult situation. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The PSD and the CDS protest, but it is appropriate to ask where they have gone, what they have done and if they do not remember that during the PSD/CDS-PP government there were the biggest demonstrations of security forces and services, these demonstrations that took place not in favour, but against the measures that the PSD and CDS-PP adopted. Madam Minister, if it is true that the PSD and the CDS-PP have left a sea of problems for this government to solve, it is also true that we have an obligation to resolve. Today we have marked new actions of struggle — which we welcome — in the PSP and GNR and in other security forces, because problems need to be solved and we do not postpone solutions. The Government must respond to problems of lack of investment, lack of staff, lack of material resources and the imperative need to respond to the socio-professional problems that arise: the conclusion of competitions, the unlocking of wage rates, progress, the unlocking of access to reform, the need for a process of demilitarization of the GNR, which is being done at European level, and which also needs to be conducted in our country. Therefore, Mrs Minister, this sea of problems that it is important to solve is necessary for the Government to respond in the sense that by the time we begin to face all these problems. We recognize that there have been some problems that have been solved, particularly the reference time in the GNR, which has been a struggle for decades of professionals and that this government has given up, but it is very little. It is important to solve these problems. When are we going to have the same answers, Mrs. Minister? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u54	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr. Jorge Machado, there is indeed a myriad of problems, in which some are also the result of a constant disinvestment, especially between 2012 and 2015, for which unfortunately I have no magic solutions that can solve them from today to tomorrow. As for the so-called promotional contests, almost all are now open and running. For example, in the PSP it will already open a competition for chiefs and promotions have been unlocked, which was another of the claims, because in recent years the promotions virtually did not exist in the PSP, although they have consistently existed in the GNR in less or more numbers. however, in March the Military Programming Act came into force and we are already launching a series of competitions — some are already being launched and others are being completed — for the acquisition of a series of equipment, including individual protective equipment. We also have a series of remodeling projects and even for the construction of police facilities already being awarded, with other implementation projects already completed and which will soon enter the tendering phase. at this moment we are preparing a large multi-annual contest for the acquisition of cars with annual deliveries, precisely to maintain the constant replacement of the fleet. In other words, all measures are being taken gradually. I have no capacity — no one has, this government or any other — to solve accumulated problems one day at a time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u56	Mr Jorge Machado has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u57	Mr President, Madam Minister, we understand your answer, but we also realize the dissatisfaction that professionals feel on the street, just as we understand why new actions of struggle. The Minister here refers to the competitions that are open, the release of promotions, the Military Programming Act to solve equipment and investment problems, the multi-annual competition for... It is "for, for, for..." always in a perspective of the future. Mrs. Minister, no one is asking you to solve your problems one day or another. What professionals are asking for — that is why they have marked actions for struggle on the street — and what we are asking for in the Assembly of the Republic is that the Government takes concrete steps in solving these problems, a resolution that needs to be speeded up. [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] The gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS-PP do not have the slightest legitimacy to protest, complain, because they, instead of solving problems, have created more and more problems in the security forces, but this government has the imperative need to resolve.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u58	I should be quiet! Shame is necessary!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u59	Madam Minister, what we say is that we need to speed up the resolution of these problems. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u60	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u61	Mr President, Mr. Jorge Machado, one of the reasons for great discontent in the security forces, as well as in the general public administration, is the freezing of horizontal progressions, i.e. of escalation changes. This is not about vertical progression, because, in spite of everything, the laws of the State Budget — with the exception of one year — have allowed these vertical progressions. Those that have been frozen for many years are the so-called horizontal progressions, the step changes within the same category. And, as you know, this is a global issue, which covers the entire Public Administration, and is currently in charge of the Ministry of Finance unlocking, if we want, this issue and finding a solution not only for the security forces, but also for the Public Administration in general. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u62	You have the floor, on behalf of the Green Parliamentary Group, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u63	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, forest fires are a drama with which the Portuguese have come to confront each year. We are talking about a problem which has deserved more attention from the Greens, as, moreover, shows that this matter has constituted one of the central elements of the joint position which the Greens have established with the Socialist Party, in particular by seeking to stop the expansion of the eucalyptus. As the Minister will certainly know, the expansion of the eucalyptus has experienced a very strong momentum in the previous government, which has promoted the liberalisation of the eucalyptus, with all the consequences that arise there not only for the environment and for our forest diversity, but also in terms of the prevention of forest fires. But immediately—until the time of the greatest incidence of forest fires is at the door—The Greens have a set of concerns that they wanted to leave here. Ms. Minister, on the material of forest slags, for example, she was interested to know whether there was a review of this material, whether the degraded material was restored and whether we are going to have a better articulation of forest slags with other civil protection agents involved in the fight against fires. With regard to air resources, which is always a matter of relevance when we talk about forest fires, we would like to know if they are operational and how many are available at the moment to intervene. For example, with regard to Operation Fatima, we know that there will be air operations, but it is interesting to know how many will intervene in this operation and whether they have come from the Air Force and, above all, how these means involved in Operation Fatima are not required in air evacuations or in the fight against fires at other locations during that operation. [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u64	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u65	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, of course the fire season is approaching. Statistically, at the time of autarchical elections it is usually worse than in previous years—that is merely statistical. As far as forest slags are concerned, they depend on the Ministry of Agriculture, and I cannot, of course, answer them because I do not have these data, since I do not protect them from the forest slags. however, there is a strong joint throughout the DECIF (Special Device of Combating Forest Fires). As far as air resources are concerned, we have 47 operations. The two Kamovs who are inoperative and who are still capable of being repaired will not be able to be repaired in time for this DECIF because they are dependent on an international competition. This is an extremely complicated issue, because it was necessary to remove them from the contract which the previous government has celebrated in order to achieve its repair and the complexity of the matter has exceeded our best expectations. The Air Force does not have fire fighting equipment. however, in the air media acquisition plans of the air forces themselves is being equated, where possible, to acquire aircraft that have this dual valence: the normal ones, necessary for the performance of the mission of the Air Force, but which can also serve for the air combat to fires, which is, above all, important at an initial stage, because effective firefighting is done, as everyone knows, especially on land and with a good strategy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u66	Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor for a reply.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u67	Mr President, Minister, did not refer to Operation Fatima, but we believe it is an important matter to know whether this operation does not compromise the response to other needs that may occur during that period. Ms. Minister, during the last few days several fires have already occurred from north to south of the country and the Special Forest Fire Control Device begins the Bravo phase on 15 May, at which time the means of combat will be strengthened. But if the heat increases and the number of day-to-day forest occurrences also increases, we would like to know whether the government is considering the possibility of anticipating the reinforcement of air resources by 15 May. Finally, Mrs Minister, after watching several periods of firefighting with huge human losses — many of them because of lack of knowledge on the ground — she was interested to know whether there was a greater training for firefighters to know accessibility, to map water points and to locate sensitive areas and with greater danger of forest fires. in the background, he was interested to know the challenges that the government has promoted to, together with local civil protection agents, reduce the difficulties of combating forest fires.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u68	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u69	In fact, at the beginning of this year, and especially now, in April, there were many forest fires, not in the forest, but in the area of slaughter, where human resources were involved in the 8000 order, more than 2500 vehicles and 37 air vehicles. That's only at this time, and we haven't reached the DECIF yet. But, as I told you, fires were recorded mainly in the forest area and not so much in the forest area. With regard to Operation Fatima, it will, of course, not compromise the fight against fires, because the commitment of air resources for surveillance is not exactly the commitment of air resources which are to combat fires. On the question of strengthening, of course, which could be considered, as it was last year, where there was a strengthening of air resources through the hiring of more amphibious aircraft. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u70	To put questions, Mr Filipe Neto Brandão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u71	Mr President, Minister for Internal Administration, this debate today takes place a few days after this House has been sent the document that brings together the global records of crime involved in Portugal, which simply offers us the best records since this type of document is drawn up. Since the Annual Report on Internal Security (RASI ) is the instrument, par excellence, measuring criminal policies and security policies, the first and unmistakable observation, which cannot fail to be made, is that Portugal is witnessing a regression of the crime involved and a very significant decrease in the violent and serious crime, the distinctive feature of which is the use of physical or psychological violence. We are talking about a regression of the order of the two digits—to be more rigorous, 11, 6. The Commission's White Paper on the future of Europe, which was presented, as you know, on 1 March this year, referred to Portugal as the fifth most peaceful country in the world. Now, the data now revealed make it possible to emphasize the assertion that Portugal is a safe country and, even, it is one of the safest countries in the world. This country’s asset — security — is strengthened and, as I have already said, presents the best indicators of all time. It will certainly be the merit of the Government and of you, but it is, above all, the merit of the men and women who, day and night, watch for our safety. It is thought in these men and women that the working conditions that the State is giving them must deserve our special attention. So, Mrs Minister, I ask you the following: what is the point at this time of the situation of the Law on the Programming of Infrastructures and Equipment of the Forces and Security Services of the Ministry of Internal Administration? What can you bring us forward? I shall end by wishing the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs the greatest happiness on this anniversary. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u72	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u73	Mr President, Mr Filipe Neto Brandão, in relation to the infrastructures, in addition to some that are completed, are running around seven, six more are being awarded and we are currently finalizing the implementation projects for the remodeling, rehabilitation and construction of eight more infrastructures, and this is already under the Infrastructure Programming Act. As I have already said, some competitions have been launched mainly for the acquisition of personal protective equipment, because in the last five years, the acquisition of this type of equipment has been absolutely residual. Only to have an idea, there have been years when a single type of equipment has not been acquired, not even ballistic protection vests, which have limited duration. in the last five years, acquisitions were made by the GNR in the order of 30 000 €, which is nothing. We have already launched a tender — it is currently being awarded — only for the acquisition of EUR 1, 1 million, only in this type of protection, which must meet certain criteria such as gender, because the collections, before, were all the same, whether for men or women. All these tenders have already been launched, are being completed in competition proceedings, or are being awarded and pending delivery. In addition, some competitions were anticipated, in particular those relating to the delivery of armaments to GNR due to the operation that will take place in Fatima, where GNR will have a very important role and coordinator. So we're working at all speeds in these contests. In addition, we also want to launch a multi-annual invitation to tender for the purchase of cars. Since these competitions are very tough, it does not make sense to do so year by year, so we launch competitions for the period of validity of the Programming Law with annual deliveries. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u74	To put questions, Mr Fernando Negrão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u75	Mr President, Minister for Internal Administration, I would like to ask you three very specific questions on a very sensitive subject and on which we have to discuss, which is terrorism. Firstly, in the fight against terrorism, a single point of contact was agreed at the level of the European Union in each of the Member States. There is a huge delay in the implementation of this single contact point in Portugal, which I know has been approved, about two or three weeks ago, in the Council of Ministers. however, this Parliament does not know this model of the single point of contact. Madam Minister, I ask you to explain this, since we do not know when this diploma will come to Parliament approved by the Council of Ministers. Secondly, in combating terrorism, collecting and exchanging information are fundamental to preventing the practice of terrorist crimes, which means that we must pay particular attention to information services. Mrs Minister, I ask you to explain a little better the question of metadata, which you explained to Mr Telmo Correia. The metadata only have to do with the location, that is, where you are, where you go and where you stay. That's all. As Mr Telmo Correia has said, Portugal is the only country in which information services do not have this instrument. in the context of the information services, I ask you, Mrs Minister, what is the point of the situation with regard to career progression and its status, since motivation is essential for those working in the information services. Thirdly, within the framework of the National Counter-Terrorism Strategy, there should be an operational coordination plan in situations of intervention in the face of terrorist attacks that includes coordination measures and interoperability of systems and equipment, civil protection services, medical emergency and Armed Forces. Mr. Minister, does this plan exist? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u76	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u77	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, I do not know whether the bill has been tabled here, but I know that it has been adopted in the Council of Ministers...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u78	Ask the Secretary of State!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u79	Well, by the way, he's not supposed to be here yet. Regardless of this, SPOC (Single Point of Contact) is a unique contact point that brings together the various existing international police cooperation channels. These channels are several and have undergone a huge increase over recent years because, as you well know, there is not only the Europol channel ( European Police Service ), but also the SIRENE National Office and Interpol ( Organisation ). International Criminal Police ). We have several national contact points in various European Union legislative instruments, as well as the CCPA ( Police and Customs Cooperation Centres ). All these channels will work together with the same workflow and the same management structure. For people to understand, it is a kind of citizen store, where everyone works together in a single space, under the same management, thus allowing for better and more effective channeling not only the requests for information that come to us but also the requests we also make to the other Member States of the European Union. This is only a mechanism for rationalizing the flow of information exchange and will be created without their security forces and services losing their skills. Nothing interferes with your skills. It is only a unique counter for the exchange and sharing of information. It is also not only there that this information sharing takes place, it will also be done through UCAT ( Anti-Terrorism Coordination Unit ), which currently has a permanent structure among all security forces and services.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u80	You want to finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u81	Mr Fernando Negrão, I apologize to you, but I do not have time to continue to answer. When I use the word again, I will continue to answer it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u82	Mr Fernando Negro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u83	Mr President, Minister of Internal Administration, in this year's Annual Internal Security Report "in recent years, evidence has been collected and evaluated that account for the worsening of some risk factors, evidence already detected in our country." This refers to terrorism. So, Mrs Minister, I ask you: what is the Government's concern about this matter? And I would like to highlight the question about information services, since information is essential in combating terrorism. How are we in terms of organic information services in Portugal? Mr.Minister, through Resolution of the Council of Ministers No. 7 -A / 2015, the National Counter-Terrorism Strategy was approved. in RASI 2017 it is mentioned the need to develop strategies and action plans resulting from this strategy. I ask you, Minister : what is the point of all the plans and strategies defined in the Council of Ministers Resolution? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u84	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u85	Mr President, Mr Fernando Negrão, your concern is about some cases which have been very well reported, particularly with regard to those radicalized Moroccans who are being arrested. for the first time, we checked in our country two concrete phenomena of radicalization and it was precisely thanks to the very good articulation between all security forces and services that was possible to detect and monitor, and the result is in sight. International cooperation was exemplary, which allowed the arrest of one of them in France and the other in Germany and was handed over to Portugal under a European arrest warrant. These processes are being followed. As for the National Counter-Terrorism Strategy, there are several plans whose coordination is the responsibility of the Secretary-General of the Internal Security System and the information I have is that the infrastructure protection plans in telecommunications are already completed. currently, the indexation in the IPIC ( Platform for the Exchange of Criminal Information) is at levels never before seen. That is, this Platform has virtually millions and millions of data accessible to all security forces and services. in the last year, there was a huge development of this Platform, which is also essential for the exchange of information. The question of metadata is very important and it is necessary to clarify people that we are not talking about the content of communications, it is only to know if A has spoken with B and to establish some intelligence connections. Information services will never have access to the content of messages, it is not about listening. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u86	Mr President, will you excuse me from using the floor to make an appeal to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u87	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u88	Mr President, in order that the lack of truth does not go unpunished in a debate with this nature, I would like to ask the Bureau to distribute to all parliamentary groups an excerpt from the explanatory note from the State budget for 2016, which states that during 2016 800 PSP agents will be incorporated, which would be in direct conflict with what the Minister said recently in this debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u89	It will be distributed as soon as it arrives at the Bureau, Mr. To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Sandra Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u90	Mr President, Minister for Internal Administration, I am now referring to another subject which has to do with an inexplicable unequal treatment in respect of training and progression courses in the Republican National Guard. Without a clear understanding of why since 2013 the PSD/CDS government has been in operation, the training courses of sergeants, specifically those of the GNR, have not been the subject of the order they need, as has happened in the other categories. What does this lead to? It leads that, without order, even if the courses begin, these elements do not have graduation papers and, having no graduation papers, do not then have their own remunerative valuation regarding the sergeant position for which they studied and were trained. In 2014, this office emerged, but since 2013 the offices have always come with delay and only under great pressure from socio-professional associations. What happened was that, for example, in relation to the 72 elements of the 2014 course, which ended in September 2016, although there has been an order to guarantee seniority since the time they were graduated, such as this office does not obviously guarantee the remuneration update, they have been losing money for seven months, they are losing their remuneration and will not be able to recover it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u91	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u92	Therefore, Madam Minister, I ask you what solution you have for this type of problem and what assurances will be given so that this does not happen again. And now, what is the explanation for this to happen only for sergeant courses and not for the other categories? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u93	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u94	Mr President, Mrs Sandra Cunha, this in fact happened with the entrance in 2014 because the office that authorised the course, inexplicably, did not authorize the graduation at the end of the course. However, in accordance with Article 38. that of the State Budget Act, this authorization should be in this office, i.e. those guards who applied for the course of sergeants were allowed to attend the course of sergeants but there was no requirement under the law to switch to the category of sergeants. The situation of this course is already resolved and yesterday was sent to publish the order that authorizes its graduation. As for those who are now attending the course, which has been opened with the permission of this government, this situation is already regularized, because, in addition to allowing the course, it is automatically authorized in that office, which is required by law, which, by the end of the course, those who are approved, of course, can be immediately graduated in the category of sergeant. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u95	Again, Mrs. Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u96	Mr President, Minister, the situation is resolved, but the fact is that it has no retroactive effects, i.e. these elements that have been all these months, since 2013, waiting for this update will lose all these months, because the office has no retroactive effects, since it is in the State Budget - and correct me if I am wrong. I would also like to ask the GNR if, following the recent approval of the GNR Military Statute and the creation of a new Brigadier General position, there is an intention to move into GNR's remuneration status. The GNR, as you know, is the least received security force. In 2015, when the PSP traded its remuneration status in the context of the review of its statutes, and well, the difference between the remuneration status of the GNR and that of the PSP became absolutely abysmal, and this difference is growing as it progresses in antiquity and career. For example, an element of the GNR at the beginning of the career has a salary difference of 52 € for a PSP agent over eight years under equal conditions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u97	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u98	... starts to have a difference of 154 €, and an element of the GNR needs 23 years to win the same as an element of the PSP wins at the end of 20 years. So my question is: is there any intention, briefly, to change the remuneration status of GNR and to eliminate these inequalities? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u99	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u100	Mr President, Madam Member, at the moment and because of the entry into force of the GNR Military Statute, which has not incorporated the remuneration issue, because this is always part of another diploma in the GNR, which is its remuneration status, this statute will obviously have to be changed until it can provide for the category of Brigadier-General. However, I would not make this close association between GNR and PSP for a very simple reason: careers are completely different and levels are different. They may, for example, start equally at the base, but, for example, there are only three levels in the PSP in the agent career, which corresponds to the guards, in the GNR there are six levels. So I can never make such a direct association. Why? Because in the PSP career is much less linear and has much less ladders, if I can talk like this, and therefore I cannot compare what is not comparable, because careers are not similar, careers are very different in terms of categories, with much more categories in the GNR, either at the level of the career of guards is at the level of the career of sergeants, which does not exist in the PSP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u101	You now have the floor on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Telmo Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u102	Mr President, Minister, I would like to say the following: in terms of the legislative process in relation to metadata I do not want to insist but we understand. The CDS has its proposal already put forward and we will wait for the government - and it is already a year - to present itss so that we can discuss it. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u103	But in the legislative process, Mrs Minister, there are a number of things - and it is even a surprise that you are the one who is - who I think have not done well: for example, the status of the GNR had to go back and had to be changed. As far as trade union law is concerned, I ask you what is going to happen, because the government has put forward a proposal that has not dealt with anyone and criticisms are the same as those that existed in origin. Question : do you already have an agreement to resolve this problem or not, particularly within the parliamentary majority that supports it?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u104	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u105	Then, Mrs Minister, I wanted to tell you that - and this is good for the country, it is a trend that has been at least since 2010 - it is clear that the fall in crime is a sustained trend and that is positive, and yet it is. There are, however, some problems that we have to deal with. There is, in fact, a problem in school matters - and this has already been discussed here - but in addition, in my opinion, Mrs Minister, there is some kind of violent and urban crime that must be a concern factor and there are territories with serious crime problems. If it is true that the overall number is positive we also know that in certain areas we have a ratio of almost 50 crimes per 1,000 inhabitants. I think, for example, in the vicinity of Lisbon, in Amadora, where we have the Loures Division Commander to say that there are fewer effective than in the Municipal Police, and the statements are from him and not mine. So, Minister, here are some concerns and factors of discontent that are questions, from our point of view, serious and I ask you if you have this notion and if you have an answer to them. For example: the issue of the effectives, Mrs. Minister. The incorporation of 800 agents results from the law and the number of 6300 agents coming out, at least, from statements by the National Director, therefore the issue of effectiveness is a relevant issue, and I gave him the example of Amadora ; the question of stopped cars, for example in the Metropolitan Command of Porto, is an important issue ; the question of lack of repair and means of repair, especially from November onwards, is also important. In fact, what we know and the information we have is that about a quarter of the cars can be stopped or in repair...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u106	I wanted to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u107	So I ask you when we will have new cars and when this matter will be resolved. I conclude, Mr President, with one last question: on the issue of the reforms Mrs Minister, first, said that it was the sustainability factor, told us that it was a legal issue, then told us that there was a particular link with the Ministry of Solidarity and Social Security, and finally told us that the issue was resolved. Well, as we know, there are still 3,000 men who say that, particularly in relation to 2014 and 2015, they have been harmed and are willing to take action in this matter. What you can tell us about this, Mrs Minister, since it seems that this situation will not be resolved. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u108	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u109	Mr President, Mr Telmo Correia, with regard to the status of the GNR, as you know, it has already been published, and in fact there has been only a difference in one issue and, in principle, it has kept the proposal, the President of the Republic has vetoed it, it has been corrected and then it has been adopted. With regard to trade union law there is only one rule which has been the subject of enormous challenge, especially Article 3. the, and that could, according to some, generate judgments of unconstitutionality, which does not seem to me either, but in any way, I have manifested here total openness and continue to manifest total openness to solve a real problem. Mr President, as long as this proposal has entered this House, another union has already been set up in which 17 of its leaders belong to a single team and if they all resolve to put a union strike on that day the closed squad. So simple as that! So, in school matters...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u110	You want to finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u111	Mr President, then in the next speech I will try to answer. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u112	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u113	Mr President, using my 9 seconds in a concrete way, I would like to say to the Minister the following: the Minister says that there is a problem. We agree that there is a problem, but the Minister is that she rules, it's not us...!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u114	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u115	The Minister submitted a bill that did not deal with anyone, which did not even have the support of the parties of the majority, which did not negotiate with the unions and which apparently did not serve. And, agreeing that there is a problem, I ask: how does the Minister intend to solve this problem? Do you have a deal? Are the parties that now seem so nice and so consistent with everything going to help solve this problem?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u116	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u117	It is because the Minister identifies a lot of problems, but it seems sometimes that what happens in computer matters, I am sorry - to tell her, in which the expression "in resolution" appears on the screen... she is on the wheel and everything is in resolution, but she does not solve anything. It's like investment. Do you have investment plans? When are there cars? When is there a gun? When will the intervention body have equipment in condition? It is all in resolution, Mrs Minister, but it is not enough to be in resolution, it has to be scheduled, it has to give dates, it has to give time, because that is your obligation and not ours. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u118	Mr. Minister of Internal Administration has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u119	Mr President, when the union law once again, in the field of specialty, I express my full willingness to negotiate with the honourable Member, if you wish. But the Assembly of the Republic must also assume its responsibilities, even because, in spite of everything, it is a law of the Assembly of the Republic. In school matters, in fact, the issue of crime or violence in school environment is worrying and therefore we have re-activated the working group, which has existed in time, coordinator of the Safe School Programme, which you have disabled. I do not know why and why, now, we have re-activated precisely to assess what measures we will be able to implement. As regards the issue of sensitive urban areas in some territories, I recall that in the Lisbon region and also in the port, we have several local security contracts - the MAI Bairro - which affect these neighborhoods for the elimination of criminal factors, to try to reduce violence, crime and, above all, juvenile delinquency in these neighborhoods and in these sensitive areas. With regard to transport cars, it is a fact that they had a percentage of inoperability of 50 %, which was due not only to their state, but above all to a huge lack of response capacity for companies that were hired through a multiannual contract of responsibility for the previous government and now we will have to launch a new contract in a more intelligent way, because the lowest price criterion leads to companies without any capacity to win these competitions and then they fail to comply with sanctions is true, but they do not comply, but at the moment I can tell you that the rate of inoperability in Porto is 20 %. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u120	You now have the floor, Mr Jorge Machado, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u121	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members : Madam Minister, I do not think I will be giving any news to this House of the Republic if it is stated that the Government does not participate in the discussion in the field of diplomas. Therefore, as regards the law of union freedom, I would like to say that, on the side of the CFP Parliamentary Group, we are fully available for further discussion on the subject. If PSD and CDS-PP want to solve the problems that the bill had, very well here, we are available to solve them, let's go there to solve them and move forward with solving one more of the problems that arise in our country. Could not connect with command "%s": %s. Ms. Minister, the question I wanted to ask concerns the 2017 Special Arrangement for Combating Forest Fires, the DecIF. The device was announced yesterday and caused us to have several doubts, so it implies a better characterization and explanation by the Minister. How will it be operationalized, what are they and where are the means that are intended to be allocated to the device? It is also appropriate to clarify the role that firefighters will play in this joint, because this was not clear in yesterday's announcement, which caught some structures by surprise, and on our part it was important that there was clarity. Mrs. Minister, another question we would like to raise relates to the debts to the humanitarian associations of volunteer firefighters relating to the 2016 DECIF. It is that there are examples such as that of the Benavente Volunteers' Corporation, but not only, there are other corporations in the same situation, which have late payments, which, of course, has reflections on the day-to-day of these corporations. It was important to solve this problem so that it starts for the 2017 DecIF with corporations without this financial problem in hand. I would therefore ask the Minister what measures she will take. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u122	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u123	Mr President, Mr Jorge Machado, this year the DECIF will work with some amendments. In particular, as is public knowledge, there is a strengthening of the military's participation in the heating operations. These military will not fight fires, but will be up to speed in surveillance operations and, downstream, in heating operations, an extremely important activity, insofar as many of the major forest fires result from overcrowding and poorly made heats. What is more, this is important for our firefighters, who are the combatants, to be able to rest and not be called to this type of operation, to finally be able to do what they really know, which is to fight fires. We're also going to have a helicopter for air coordination. It is not a firefighting helicopter, but only for air coordination actions, precisely to make the action more effective. We have strengthened, with firefighters integrated into the permanent device, some regions of the country, especially those that are most deficient in terms of firefighter bodies, precisely to raise the level of initial attack, because it is in the initial attack that problems are solved, and not let fire progress. Operational training courses have also been strengthened, and this has results. If you notice, last year, we had great fires in large theatres of operations, in very difficult situations, and there was no record of any fatal incident. Why? Because the safety — of people, first of all — must be an objective of this DecIF. We will also have in permanent three teams of analysis and use of fire, of the FEB (Special Fire Force ), precisely to assist command in the definition of more effective combat strategies. In addition to the 1320 properly trained and equipped Army military, we will also have two Navy platoons, including Marines, in a total of 60. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u124	To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Elza Pais of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u125	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretary of State for Internal Administration and Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister of Internal Administration, in a general framework of the fall of crime, is finding that domestic violence continues to occupy one of the summits, the second place, in this framework of crime. There has also been an increase of 1, 4 %, plus 304 occurrences, but we also know that, as a rule, these increases are due to two reasons: on the one hand, to greater effectiveness in their fight and, on the other hand, to uncultuating the phenomenon. Crossing this data with those of the Fundamental Rights Agency, we know that only one third of this type of violence is reported. So what we are concerned about is what we still don't see. I would therefore like to commend the Government for its extraordinary work in preventing and combating domestic violence, with the opening of spaces for specific types of victims, particularly victims of sexual violence, since there was still no space for this type of crime, with the strengthening of territorialization of actions and, above all, with the campaign against violence in courtship. I would like to ask you a question about the risk assessment. Risk assessment is an instrument that is about 10 years old and has been further developed, a very important instrument, a more valuable instrument in strategic intervention and in combating domestic violence. It is recognised its positive impact on domestic violence policing, in particular with regard to the implementation of response mechanisms: more than 27 000 risk assessments have been carried out, more than 20 000 revaluations and we know that 22 % of these assessments are at high risk. Madam Minister, my question is: what specific strategies are being adopted in high-risk situations? RASI records 30 conjugal homicides and what we want is zero conjugal homicides, zero tolerance to the conjugal homicide, for maximum effectiveness in its prevention and combat. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u126	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u127	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in fact this year there has been a slight increase in domestic violence. During the past year, an intra-MAI working group was set up to monitor this phenomenon, especially to allow for improvements not only in risk assessment criteria, but also to provide security forces, through better data collection and analysis, with specific data that allow for more targeted action. It is natural that the number of victim support rooms will grow over the next few years for a very simple reason: all the projects and functional plans of the security forces facilities must necessarily contain a victim support room. As these infrastructures are being rehabilitated, it will naturally increase that number. In addition to the awareness-raising actions you have mentioned — and, I must say, the security forces have done a lot of action — there is strong coordination with the Secretary of State for Citizenship and Equality, which has a fundamental role in linking with other actors on the ground, because unfortunately the issue of domestic violence is not just a matter of security. with regard to risk analysis, in addition to strengthening the monitoring of victims and their referral to institutions, it is also increasing the number of so-called 'individualised safety plans' for the identified victims, in which we are currently working with natural concern, because this is an extremely complex phenomenon... As for the murder, I would not say conjugal because this does not exist, in the environment of domestic violence, the committee of retrospective analysis of suicide, chaired by a Mr. Procurator, has already begun to work.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u128	You want to finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u129	The committee, in addition to having approved some important documents, such as the retrospective analysis manual, has already selected 10 cases, which have already passed on trial, to analyze, during 2017, cases concerning victims, minors or especially vulnerable people, precisely to understand what is behind this type of homicide. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u130	To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Teresa Morais of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u131	Mr President, Madam Minister, let's talk about traffic. I begin by expressing the strangeness of the fact that, in the annual internal security reports of the last two years, the crime of trafficking in persons has disappeared from the RASI index and has subsequently been treated in the field of the analysis of mere illegal immigration. However, two realities that relate to each other, but which we want to separate precisely because they have different degrees of gravity, are mixed in RASI in the last two years. But let's turn to numbers: signs of alleged traffic victims have increased overall 35, 6 % and if we consider traffic victims signaled in Portugal, the increase is more than 68 %. of these victims — 261 — 26 are children. of these signs, were confirmed, at the date of data collection, 118, 108 of them in Portugal — 101 victims of labour exploitation and 3 sexual exploitation. of the 26 victims children, only 3 were confirmed among us. Ms. Minister, Operation Pokhara, SEF ( Foreign and Border Service) and Operation Katmandu are not enough to explain this increase. Question : what is your explanation for the increase in cases of trafficking in human beings, which is very significant, and what measures does the government intend to take to attack this increase in trafficking in human beings that occurred in 2016? On the other hand, does it seem credible to you that there are three victims of trafficking for sexual exploitation? Does it not seem strange to you that these signals come almost all of the NGOs (non-governmental organisations) and do not come from the security forces, which have very little expression in terms of signaling traffic victims? Finally, the Minister is very concerned about the situation of trafficking in children and their disappearance from host institutions. Moreover, he must have read the recent report by GRETA — Group of Experts on Action against Human Trafficking — on Portugal, which considers this matter of concern and urges the Portuguese State to work on it, considering the matter which is not immediate action. What does the government intend to do, Minister? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u132	To reply, you have the floor of Mr. Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u133	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with you that trafficking in human beings is not confused with illegal immigration. They are two crimes whose legal good is completely different: in one, it is the territory and in the other, it is the dignity of the human person. So that's what we agree on. There is indeed an increase in signals because there has also been a very significant increase in monitoring actions that have allowed much more victims of trafficking in human beings to be detected. Both the GNR and the PSP, in isolated or joint actions with other authorities such as the SEF, have greatly strengthened their supervisory action and therefore there is a very significant increase in the number of people signaled, ultimately examining what would be the black figure, which we would never know what it was. The issue of unaccompanied minors and trafficked minors is very worrying. We have had the phenomenon, mainly originating in sub-Saharan Africa, of some unaccompanied minors, aged 16 or 17, who arrive alone or alone in Portugal, ask for asylum, and then disappear from their reception site, in particular the CPR, the Portuguese Council for Refugees. Some have already been detected, in particular many in France, which is their country of preferential destination. at this time, several meetings have already been held in the MAI to try to have a manual of procedures for all entities, not only for the police, but for the judicial authorities and for the Public Prosecutor. There must be a strong involvement of the Public Prosecutor's Office here to better monitor and, above all, better protect these unaccompanied minors. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u134	Again, Mrs Teresa Morais has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u135	Mr President, Madam Minister, I also mentioned these special detection operations which you mentioned, but they alone do not explain this increase of cases, it is necessary to go deeper in this analysis. Ms.Minister recently referred to the investment in care rooms to victims of domestic violence in the teams. Madam Minister, let me tell you that it was a good time to start doing so, in fact, because the number referred to in RASI is 63 % of teams with these service rooms, and 63 % is exactly the percentage of the last Annual Internal Security Report produced by the previous Government. So nothing has grown in this matter at all and it is time to do it. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u136	Furthermore, Mrs Minister, I would like to tell you that, in terms of RASI and homicide classification, there has been an incomprehensible typology adopted in the last two years. There is now a murder explained for reasons of economic dependence. What is this, Minister? If these murders are not conjugal, they are not analogous, nor are they in a family context, then what are murders justified by economic dependence? Oh, my God! What's this classification? If the idea was to introduce clarity, the result is exactly the opposite, Mrs. Minister. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u137	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u138	Mr President, Mrs Teresa Morais, of course, the RASI data relate to 2016, but I remember that already this year, in 2017, they went into operation to be exact nine police facilities, which correspond to nine more victim support rooms and will naturally be reflected in the next RASI, which will still reflect all those that will be « inaugurated » throughout 2017.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u139	All right! We'll see!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u140	Therefore, it is natural that this number will grow, but 62 %, as the honourable Member well knows,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u141	That's 63 %!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u142	... or 63 % is still insufficient coverage, the ideal coverage will be 100 %. But the coverage of 100 % will only be reached on the day when all PSP teams and GNR territorial posts have been remodeled, rehabilitated or built of root, and this is part of the creation and existence of such a room as a mandatory implementation plan. On the issue of homicides in a relationship of economic dependence, the classification arises because there are people who, although they do not live in a family or similar relationship, live or cohabit, if we want, in a relationship in which there is a very distant degree of kinship or there is not even a degree of kinship, but there is economic dependence.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u143	But this is a murder like any other!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u144	I think that is the situation that must be envisaged. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u145	Now you have the floor to Mrs Sandra Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u146	Mr President, Minister for Internal Administration, Immigrants, SEF ( Service of Foreigners and Borders ), residence permits. The Left Block has insisted on this matter and it will not stop doing as long as justice is not done and as long as immigrants in this country are not effectively treated with the dignity and respect they deserve and that is due them. A news from last April 6 reports a strike of the orange catchers of the Algarve. Why? Because, in addition to the precarious working conditions, from sun to sun work, from often subhuman housing conditions and from low wages, workers are denied the regularization of their situation by the SEF and their applications for residence permit are rejected, although they already meet all the conditions for regularization. Why? Because the companies they work for have debts to social security. Mrs. Minister, you cannot « pay the righteous for the sinner». It is not these workers who have debts to social security, they pay all their contributions and employers, employers, receive these values, these amounts from the workers. Who owes, who has debts, it's the employers. These are the ones who have to be held responsible and obliged to make legal contracts with their workers, to make due contributions and thus to allow the regularization of these immigrants in national territory. These are situations of abuse, we know, but the way the SEF deals with these situations is, in fact, a promotion of cheap labour, exploitation and illegal work and an incentive to this exploitation, this illegal work, to almost slavery. Instead of punishing the offenders, in joint action with the Act (Working Conditions Authority) and Social Security, the SEF considers it easier to pursue the victims of these mafia schemes. I ask you, Madam Minister, whether you are going to let these unfair situations continue to happen and whether you will, once and for all, continue to act in this matter and ensure that all these workers are regularized and legalized, when they meet the conditions that allow them, and many are gathering them, so that they can work and contribute to the country's economy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u147	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u148	Mr President, Mrs Sandra Cunha, I do not know whether or not these workers meet the legal conditions of their stay. however, if they are proven victims of labour exploitation, they may always regulate their situation under Article 122. the Law of Foreigners, regardless of whether they contributed or ceased to contribute to social security, whether they entered or stopped legally entering our country. Therefore, I do not know which cases are in particular, but I know that whenever there is exploitation of work—I do not refer to trafficking in human beings, because this is also provided for in legal provisions— these people, in the light of our legal order, have the possibility to apply for a residence permit in accordance with Article 122. the Law of Foreigners. I do not know whether they did so or not, I would need to see the concrete situation, but I know that there is a legal solution to combat these exploitative phenomena. Most likely, what they do not have is an inscription on social security. however, it is time to finalise a bill to amend the Foreign Law, and we are now doing so in order to enable, above all, seasonal workers, a more expeditious mechanism to regulate their situation. On the other hand, this year we were very successful in this area in implementing a local security contract (CLS) in Serpa, which targeted precisely in a coordinated action of SEF, ACT, Social Security and a series of other institutions on the ground, including the municipal chamber, this situation of foreign labour exploitation. This local security contract went well, so that, at the initiative of the municipalities throughout the Alentejo, it will be extended to all the municipalities of the Alentejo. I am referring to MAI Citizen, which is a typology that aims precisely at this phenomenon.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u149	Mrs. Minister, you want to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u150	I will finish, Mr. President. Therefore, perhaps it is to equalize the implementation, also in the Algarve, of a local security contract of this type. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u151	Again, you have the floor of Mrs Sandra Cunha.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u152	Mr President, Mrs Minister, in effect, the situation I spoke about here is the knowledge of the SEF, which, in fact, in its own news, also recognizes companies that do not comply with the legal obligation to regulate social security, and this is a circumstance likely to collide with one of the requirements for granting residence permits. Therefore, once again, it is in fact the companies and not the workers who are in need and therefore cannot be the ones penalized because of the employers' illegalities. These situations are absolutely dramatic for the lives of these people, but they also have very serious consequences for the economy of Portugal, because if we really do not have workers for the catch of orange, in the Algarve, for the olives, in the Alentejo, or for the stoves, in Odemira, we will have very serious problems. Immigrants looking for Portugal are not all, not even the majority, people looking for this country as a platform to move to other countries, they are, in fact, people who come here to work in search of a better life. And I just have to tell you, Mrs Minister, that I hope no Portuguese—and we know that in recent years so many have emigrated abroad in search of better living conditions—either treated or being treated abroad as foreign immigrants are being treated in this country. This situation has been dragging for too long, there are people who have all the conditions in place to see their situation regularized and that they have been waiting for months, and until more than one year or two, why everything is resolved. And they are completely hostages, completely in limbo, because they can't leave the country, they can't do anything,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u153	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u154	... they cannot have a minimally normal and dignified life. So this is a situation that needs to be resolved once and for all and as urgently as possible. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u155	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u156	Mr President, Mrs Sandra Cunha, you should also understand that the SEF cannot act outside the law and if the law requires, for regularization, that the person be registered in social security, the SEF cannot simply exempt from this requirement. Now, what we can have here is a legal problem, but, as I have already told you, the law itself has some escapes that can be used precisely to legalize these people. It's just that the procedural impulse has to start with the people themselves. If there are situations of labour exploitation, Article 122. it allows legalization; if there are humanitarian situations that are already enshrined in the law itself, such as insertion into a labor relationship for 12 months or more, also Article 123. the same law allows to solve these situations. I gave you the example of two legal provisions that people can use; whether they use them or not, I don't know, but if they use them, then I don't know what's going on and I'm going to look at these cases. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u157	Mr António Filipe has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u158	Mr President, Minister of Internal Administration, we will continue with this subject of immigration, because immigration should not be a problem, immigration is a contribution to the country. People who want to work in Portugal, who see in Portugal the possibility of having better living conditions than they have in the countries of origin should not see a problem in this, nor should that be, in no way, a problem for the country. One problem for all is the illegality of immigration and the illegality in which citizens are working in Portugal and which cannot regulate their situation. It is important to know whether there is an assessment of the size of this problem on the part of the Government today. There have already been times in the past when the opening of extraordinary regularization processes was even justified, which is not a figure with which we sympathize, but, in any case, it is important to make an assessment of the situation to see whether the existing mechanisms are responding to the need to regulate the situation of citizens working in Portugal and who have difficulties in regularizing them. And in that case, there are two problems. First, from our point of view, a law that only allows to create escapes, as the Minister said, is not the most appropriate solution. It would be desirable to find a stable solution in the law to find objective criteria for regularizing the situation of people working in Portugal. We would therefore like to know the Government's position on this problem. Another issue has to do with the conditions of the Foreign and Border Service. It is well known that there has been a lack of staff in the Foreign and Frontier Service for many years, and we have all received a lot of complaints from citizens about the delay in responding to the problems of the SEF, which has led people even to become involved in an illegal situation in which they were not due to the delay of the SEF in resolving problems, in particular in the renewal of documents. So I would like to know if there is anything the Minister can tell us about this. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u159	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u160	Mr President, Mr António Filipe, it is not today that the SEF has had a growing lack of response, if we wish, in good time to many of the requests made to it. at this time, the most significant procedural dependence is mainly in the Regional Directorate of Lisbon and Vale do Tejo, which is also where the largest number of foreigners are located in Portugal. As regards the question of the legalization of workers, a bill has already been tabled in this House by the Left Block which will, for example, solve this mechanism, which is an exceptional mechanism, which is part of a manifestation of interest. at this time, for example, more than 1500 expressions of interest are already scheduled to grant residence authorization, but what existed, especially in 2015, was a huge proliferation of these expressions of interest that, according to many credible reports and information, were purely and simply people who were not even in Portugal and who, through the online system, made their manifestation of interest in the hope of being able to legalize their situation. In 2016, the SEF, despite all, granted 46 000 residence permits. This year, in 2017, we are already going to almost 7000 new concessions and more than 15 000 residence authorisation renewals have already been made. But with regard to renewal, people are not in a situation of illegality, Mr Deputies, because, from the moment they request renewal under the law, the certificate or registration of their application has the same effect as a request for residence until a decision on renewal, or not. This renewal shall be subject to a tacit deferral at the end of 60 days, with the issue of title. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u161	Mr António Filipe has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u162	Mr President, Madam Minister, I will take advantage of this right, which I have to reply to, to make a final statement, to say why we have not asked anything about the proposal for a union law. For a very simple reason: the Government has submitted the bill and is currently in the House. So right now, to use a football language, the ball is on Parliament's side. [[Protests from PSD MP Carlos Abreu Amorim.]] I would like to express, on our part, the complete availability, as a Parliamentary Group, to work with all the parliamentary groups that are interested in solving the problem that is detected. There is a problem that needs to be solved and there are problems of the bill that need to be solved.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u163	The problem is everyone's, but if it's a good thing, it's just the majority!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u164	We are available to resolve one and the other, that is, not only to change very critical aspects of the bill but also to solve the problem that this proposal for a union law aims to solve. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]] If all parliamentary groups are as committed as we are to solving this problem, it will be resolved. Therefore, it will now compete with the parties here who have mentioned this matter to demonstrate whether they are interested only in saying that they want to solve the problem or, indeed, whether they are solving it. I hope that will be seen in the near future. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u165	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u166	Mr President, Mr António Filipe, I do not have an answer, but I would like to enhance your sense of state. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u167	Before passing the floor to the next speaker, the Bureau shall appeal to the Members and to the Members. Members to create better conditions so that we can hear more rigorously. Mr Fernando Anastácio has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u168	Mr President, Mr Minister, Secretary of State, introducing another topic, we all agree that the problem of road safety is one of the issues that raises major concerns. On the other hand, I cannot but enhance the work of the Government and also the results which have come to light in this area. However, given that the Government recently announced the PENSE ( National Road Safety Strategic Plan ) by 2020, I would like to raise two or three questions on this subject. What are the objectives that the Government intends to achieve with PENSE 2020? What news does the road safety plan bring to us? How does the Government see the behaviour of Portugal in the European framework, in the face of the evolution of road sinequality? I would also like to introduce another topic, which has already been explored today, and which obviously has to do with the problem of fires. The summer is approaching and we all have the perception of how complex the year of 2016 was in terms of forest fires. So I ask Mrs. Minister : what are the main strategic options of the DECIF (Special Forest Fire Control) 2017, which was presented? How has the Government supported the humanitarian associations of volunteer firefighters, whose role we consider crucial in civil protection? Finally, the last theme has to do with an important event, which is the centenary of Fatima. I wonder if the Government could somehow indicate in the framework of the planning that has been made of the security operations, what concerns and measures were prepared and listed for this event. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u169	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u170	Mr President, Mr Fernando Anastácio, the issue of road safety is of course worrying and so next week after a major public consultation process we will be able to adopt the PENSE, the National Road Safety Plan, which sets targets by 2020. They are quite ambitious targets with regard to road fatality, because we are going to try to reduce the deaths on the road by 56% and also significantly the serious injuries. The main measures are to improve information on accidents, implement a national monitoring plan, develop a more effective plan to combat driving by alcohol and psychotropic substances and, above all, also with a plan to prevent driving by distraction, vulgar, lead to talking to the phone, and in conditions of fatigue. There is a very serious sinisterity with tractors. Some measures have already been taken, but we need to have a coherent plan to also reduce the often deadly sinisterity that occurs, above all, on private grounds. In this public consultation, some measures were eliminated because they had received a greater challenge, such as the mandatory use of helmets by cyclists and also the one that predicted the frequency of knowledge updating actions from 65 years old, and the feasibility or necessity of these measures will be studied. With regard to support for voluntary fire associations, when we entered the government there was virtually no money available for voluntary fire associations within the framework of PROSIURB (National Urban System Consolidation Programme). We were able to reverse this situation and, at the moment, several applications have been submitted and approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u171	You want to finish, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u172	We were able to increase the investment, which aims, uniquely and exclusively, at humanitarian associations, by 40 million not only for the rehabilitation of their infrastructures but also for the acquisition of individual protective equipment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u173	Mr. Emídio Guerreiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u174	Mr. President, Minister, Portuguese are witnessing an increasing number of violent episodes associated with sporting events. The accounting for the number of arbitrators who are assaulted is now made. the government, we have seen many words, a lot of understanding, a lot of concern, but, from a practical point of view, proactivity and concrete actions we do not know any.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u175	Zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u176	In fact, we know one: the Minister was very East, in fact, to increase the rates applied to police in sporting events.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u177	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u178	In fact, today we have the sport to finance the Ministry of Internal Administration. More: who decides today whether the table a or b is applied, i.e. whether it is amateur sport, whether it is sports training or professional, has ceased to be the guardianship of sport, has become their guardianship. Mrs. Minister, in view of the growth in impunity for those who, week after week, create insecurity in sporting events, it seems to me that your response cannot be just fees and taxes on clubs for police purposes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u179	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u180	So, Mrs Minister, from a concrete point of view, what is the plan of action, whether it is thought or not, to combat this scourge and create serenity in sports shows so that they can, in fact, be enjoyed by citizens and families? Now, this is not happening because of the growing fear that exists today in these kinds of shows. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u181	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u182	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, sport violence, as you know, is a phenomenon that is not only and exclusively safe, it is a behavioral phenomenon. It is true that there have been 25 attacks on arbitrators, especially in district games and non-professional games, and therefore it has been determined not only with the Portuguese Football Federation but also with the National Council of arbitrators a modus operandi. A national contact point has been established so that arbitrators can always communicate all threats, regardless of their level of achievement, so that they can be accompanied. Of course, the referees must indicate, through this national contact point, not only the aggressions or threats they are victims of to allow them to be monitored — and, unfortunately, since this procedure was instituted, there were very few arbitrators — but also their routes, especially their travel plans, so that they can always be followed, both by the police and by the police. In any event, I continue to express the total availability of security forces and services to accompany all and any referee to the enclosure, both in the drive and in the game, and during the game, whenever the referee requests, having to say when he leaves, where he stops and when he is the game, because we have thousands of games in this country. As regards the issue of police, I must say that under a law that the Government that Mr. Deputy participated in or supported in 2012, and which was amended in 2013, this police became optional in non-professional stages, therefore, without being in the League, i.e. it became the initiative of the promoter, on the basis of his own risk assessment. In any event, it is a police force financially supported by the MAI ( Ministry of Internal Administration ), through its Secretariat-General, by 90 %, by 80 % or by 50 % of its costs, depending on the modalities. For example, on youth and children's steps,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u183	You want to finish, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u184	... 80 % of this police force is paid by the MAI Secretary-General. Therefore, the issue of fees and taxes is of little relevance, because it is from the State Budget that the money comes out for this police. I maintain complete availability to have police in all and any games, provided that it is of course required. But we can think of changes to this law in order, for example, to pass the risk assessment to security forces and services or penalise associations, when there is an x number of incidents.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u185	You want to finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u186	But we will deal with this issue with the tranquillity she deserves. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u187	Mr Emídio Guerreiro has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u188	Mr President, Minister, it would be good if it were as you say, but it is not. A cadet cycling test, a training step, today costs more than 70 % of what it cost a year ago. This is the reality. In fact, it is enough to read what the federations are referring to the different parliamentary groups. I also understood that the Minister wants to sum up the problem with an example I gave on the subject of the referees. Ms Minister, I would like to recall that Law No 52 / 2013 establishing the legal regime for combating violence, racism, xenophobia and intolerance in sports shows states in Article 5. the, which, in 2016, should be carried out an assessment of it in order to carry out exactly those changes referred to here. Now, 2016 already there, three and a half months of 2107 already go there and I'll ask you again, Mrs. Minister : where is the action plan? What are you really thinking about being calm again and ending up with this climate of impunity where some people seem to be able to do what they want and want, week after week, and nothing happens to them? [[PSD applause.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u189	You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u190	Mr President, Mr President, in any form of public order disturbance, security forces have always intervened. Do not confuse public order maintenance operations with police, let's say, preventive. The law that you have approved has made this policing totally dependent on an evaluation that is made by the associations themselves and which is in view, there is no need to make a great assessment. So what we are currently considering is the best way to try to introduce some corrective measures into the law that you have approved. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u191	Mrs. Isabel Moreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u192	Mr President, Minister, computer crime is a reality that concerns us all. The latest RASI data give us an overall increase in these crimes, which we all understand, because we all know that we are constantly moving from a material world to a analogue world, and that is the new paradigm. We will probably have an increase in the number of crimes in the next RASI, because we are actually living a new paradigm, but that doesn't mean that we don't have to worry. In addition to citizens and citizens, it is the State itself that is exposed to this reality, because the State itself is moving forward towards this dematerialization, which is good, but carries its risks. And, being the exposed State, we are also, through the State, exposed and exposed. We know that the government is concerned and attentive to this reality, and we welcome this attention, which we have taken into account. But I would like to know what measures, in view of what I have just said, intend to strengthen, if any, or whether there are new measures to be taken, before a reality that we know will continue to exist, because, as I said, it is a new paradigm. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u193	To answer, you have the floor to Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u194	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in cybercrime we have two types of occurrence: crimes against computer systems, which are related to the so-called cybersecurity, and crimes that are committed today through computer systems, such as computer ridicule and other types of crimes. In ancient times, they were committed without being used to tools. With regard to cybersecurity, the entire MAI network already has a very robust system. however, at present, firewall restructuring activities of the national internal security network are under way, to further strengthen it and avoid system vulnerabilities. With regard to crimes committed through computer systems, especially the Internet, both GNR and PSP have specialized teams that carry out constant monitoring of what is happening in the so-called "digital world", a sort of rounds or digital patrols that today are also a mechanism to combat this type of crime. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u195	Mrs. Isabel Moreira wants to make a reply?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u196	No, Mr. President, I don't mean it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u197	in this case, Mr Luís Marques Guedes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u198	Mr President, Madam Minister of Internal Administration today, during this morning's debate, I would say that, in the first part, without surprise, you have engaged in a delicacy navigation, with the parliamentary groups that support it and support it, by the union agenda of the security forces, little or nothing said about what really matters and that has to do with the security device and has not even failed the tenderness of those mutual praises, on the one hand, between the benches. on the other hand, to the various questions put by the opposition parliamentary groups to the Minister, first she sought to pretend to be a victim, with regard to the circumstances in the area of security, and then she went on to the usual pass-books, as far as you don't think it has to do with the government or, at least, with what the government has been a user and a worker. That was the case, Mrs Minister, with regard to the question of the recovery of air resources for the fight against fires. She tells the Minister that it is not how I would like to be, because public competitions are very complicated, they are international. It's been a year and a half, but it's still the same, at least on the matter of helicopters. The Minister must realize that this is already the second year of a fire season that you will face in your responsibilities. With regard to strengthening the effectiveness of the security forces, which has been placed here since the beginning, it is obvious that it is completely out of the question of everything that Mrs Minister has repeatedly committed in this Parliament, but she says that there is no great interest on the part of the market in competing with outsourcing of the meals and meals. Mrs. Minister, all this was obviously expected. All this has been said to you since the beginning, because this mechanism for the release of effectives is a mechanism that has been pursued by several governments for several years, and is therefore virtually exhausted. It is not that way that the 600, plus the 300, plus the 500, that the Minister spends her life announcing, and then comes here lamenting that she was very late, because... Well, it's not her fault, things aren't like you would like them to be.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u199	Alarmist!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u200	The same applies to the necessary allocation of the appropriate means of information services, in particular the question of metadata, of the revision of its organic law. The Minister says: "Well, we're thinking..." It is not yet as you would like, but it will walk there. The same happens with regard to the single point of contact, where they're going through the months and you don't know... In fact, the Minister did not even know, or at least she said she did not know, whether or not she had arrived at the Assembly of the Republic. Well, by the way, it's not like you'd like it to be. As for the growth of human trafficking that occurred during 2016, I find it extraordinary the explanation that you have given, saying that this is, above all, the responsibility of the greatest proactiveity of the security forces. No, Mrs. Minister, I am very sorry, this is an effective problem and the Minister should look at it as an effective problem. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u201	And if there is greater proactiveity of the security forces, you should applaud and not apologize to her. With regard to violence in sports shows, what the Minister would like was to be able to change the law, but, as she has never passed over her head the need to review, she is still considering whether or not she is going to review it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u202	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u203	Mr Minister, what we would really like was that there should not be a serious safety incident in order for the government to begin to assume its responsibilities. It's not after the stolen house that locks will be put on the door. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u204	To answer, you have the floor to Mrs. Minister, Urban Constance de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u205	Mr President, Mr Marques Guedes, as in everything in life, sometimes things don't go the way we would like to. [[PSD laughter.]] That's right! Perhaps you are not used to having honest and honest answers, but that is your problem. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u206	There are no answers!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u207	Mr President, I have answered you with the truth.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u208	Unfortunately, it's not the truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u209	If you ask me whether I have so far been able to release that number, I say to you: 'No, Mr! I couldn't! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” If I wish I could have, I would! So if you are not used to having honest answers, the problem is, of course, yours, not mine. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD MP Carlos Abreu Amorim.]] Sir, do you want me to say the numbers again? It was 299 in one year, 100 in the other. Divided by four years and has 100 per year. Therefore, there is enough confusion as to the legacy liability. [[P.S.'s applause.]] On the issue of football, it is a fact that there was that legislative amendment that placed 100 % in the hands of the associations to request it or not to policing for the games. So it was not reviewed or reviewed and now it will be, and very well. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u210	The law states that it should be reviewed in 2016. We're in 2017!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u211	I'll do it, sir!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u212	Do it, do it! We're already in 2017!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u213	I'll do it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u214	To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Susana Amador.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u215	Mr President, Minister, the 2016 Annual Report on Internal Security reveals a continuous and sustained drop in the crime rate, a reduction of 7, 1 % in comparison to 2015, and with regard to violent and serious crime, there is a decrease of 11, 6 %, and clearly shows the need for the effectiveness and adequacy of a model of prevention and proximity security that local security contracts are privileged instruments to implement a model that adds an intense partnership with central administration and several public agents, with local authorities and local partners. Ms. Minister, the criminal and anti-social phenomena are not exhausted in the security aspect and its prevention requires the active and permanent participation of various government departments and also of municipalities and partners, essential for the success of these preventive public policies, and local security contracts are in fact dependent on strict reading of local reality and understanding of their risks. Unfortunately, in recent years, the right has completely devalued these instruments and local security contracts, remaining only today with the efforts of the authorities. Under the aegis of this government and its guardianship, a new generation of local security contracts has been launched. This new generation of contracts aims to find adequate responses to the socio-criminal needs of each territory and to promote cooperation between the State, the authorities and local communities in areas that pass through justice, science, education, health, work, social security, citizenship and gender equality. What is the balance of this work in terms of local diagnosis and intervention plans? How many municipalities are involved? Mr Minister, how do the different types — the MAI Municipality, the MAI Neighborhood and the MAI Citizen — work and work, which aim to adapt, and very well, to these needs and specificities? Finally, as you see, Minister, the encouraging numbers of the reduction of juvenile crime, which goes down 22, 7% compared to 2015? What role do these contracts play in the MAI Neighborhood for, in this view of preventing deviant youth behaviors, continue to reduce these numbers so well evidenced by this Report? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u216	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u217	Mr President, Mrs Susana Amador, we now have 26 local security contracts signed. in these contracts are covered by about 40 territorial units: 20 in Lisbon, 4 in Porto, 1 in Alentejo and 16 in Algarve. We have nine local security contracts in the large metropolitan areas, in Porto and Lisbon, of the type MAI Neighborhood, which aim above all, after a diagnosis of security and the criminal characteristics of that neighborhood, to try to implement multidisciplinary measures, not only police but also at the social level and the insertion, to make those neighborhoods safer and eliminate criminogenic phenomena. We already have six local security diagnoses covering 12 territories — one, two, three neighbourhoods — and they are being implemented. Four, covering 13 territories, are already in the process of drafting and at present only 16 are in the final stage of data collection, which is necessary for the safety diagnosis which will then involve the measures which, in the field, will have to be adopted to bring that territorial area more security. One of the major objectives, especially in the MAI Bairro, is the reduction of juvenile delinquency. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u218	You have the floor to speak, Mr Vitalino Canas.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u219	Mr President, Minister, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, I would like to begin by congratulating you on the serious and rigorous way in which you addressed this debate here in the Assembly of the Republic, contrary to what happened to other benches on our right. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam Minister, we have left to the end an important, relevant issue that has to do with European issues, the issues of coordination of security forces and services at European level, the issues of information sharing. It has already been mentioned that in the White Paper of the European Commission on the future of Europe, the European Commission seeks to highlight the good performance of European countries as safe countries. And for that, Portugal makes a very significant contribution. It is one of the safest countries in Europe, the fourth, and one of the safest countries in the world. Europe has an important record with regard to the fight against classical crime, the one we were used to, the old crime, the one that will unfortunately remain for the future. However, we now have serious threats and European citizens feel uneasy about the mutant and unpredictable phenomenon of terrorism. European citizens therefore call on States, governments, but also on European institutions to make progress, at the level of coordination, information sharing, combating terrorism, which is a phenomenon which is disturbing their daily lives. Therefore, there is good performance against classical crime, but there are still great risks, great threats, great difficulties with this phenomenon that disturbs us and invades our homes daily. Mr Minister, my questions have to do with how Europe is addressing this problem. We see phenomena of terrorism every day. It is also reported that the people who practice these acts were already known, were already registered and had already been investigated in some cases. And the common citizen asks himself: "So why can we not avoid acts of terrorism? We know that 99 % of these acts that are being prepared are avoided, but there are 1 % that, in any case, is being perpetrated. And the citizens ask themselves: "If we already knew, why can we not avoid the act? » Of course we will never be able to avoid all acts, but we can create conditions for these acts to be less numerous. Madam Minister, my questions relate to the coordination and sharing of information at European level. I would like you to tell us how you assess the state of this coordination and the sharing of information. We also know that the Schengen Information System (SIS) will be amended, an important system that has reached its maturity, a system that is now very important, with thousands of consultations every day, but which reveals many signs of insecurity. This system will be reformulated. What are we going to do? I don't know if you can give us some guidance on that. If I could — unfortunately, there is little time — I would like to refer to the requests that have been made regarding the strengthening of EASO ( European Asylum Support Office ) and Frontex ( European Border and Coast Guard Agency ).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u220	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u221	I shall conclude, Mr President. There have been requests from the European institutions to the Member States to strengthen these means. If Portugal has been asked to do so, what response has been given? [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u222	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u223	Mr President, Mr Vitalino Canas, of course the sharing of information is absolutely crucial in a strategy to combat and, above all, to prevent terrorism. at European Union level, at present the possibility of introducing a single point of contact is being discussed, because this is going to happen to history, but a single point of entry. That is, any police, by doing a search on a database, not only sweep their own but all the rest, in an IT/non-IT system, therefore a sort of peek throughout the European Union. That is to say, when a police officer enters, sweep all European databases such as Eurodac, SIS, VIS ( Visa Information System ), and out there. The Schengen Information System is a very powerful instrument and a very powerful palliative for the absence of controls at internal borders and contains a series of information, which is not only for introduction but also for mandatory consultation, and not only about people but also about vehicles. at this time, the European Commission is considering the possibility of introducing improvements in this system not only of the introduction of biometric data and other identification data for persons who allow any police officer who has access to this system to better identify people but also of the systematic inclusion of watch list or referred persons, such as belonging to or participating in terrorist activities. On the issue of Frontex, today called the European Borders Agency, Portugal made available what it was obliged to do. In addition to the ad hoc provisions, 47 elements of the SEF, the Maritime Police, the PSP and the GNR are available permanently, in accordance with the profile required by the Agency. As for EASO, which is the European Asylum Office, we now offer six experts, which is beyond what would be desirable,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u224	I ask you to conclude, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u225	...but we simply do not have experts with the profile required by this Agency. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u226	We have thus concluded the debate with the Minister of Internal Administration, which took place under Article 225. the Rules of Procedure. Before we begin the votes and the members of the government, which I am taking advantage of to congratulate, I would also like to stress the following: access to these relatively infernal small machines, which are mobile phones, allows us to know things that we would otherwise not know. I would therefore like to say that on behalf of the whole House, to greet a Member who is 70 years old today, a Constituent Member, a Member who has been here for many years, with whom we can agree or of whom we can disagree, but who is a very firm and very fond Member in his speeches, Mr Jerome of Sousa, to whom I would like to congratulate. [[General applause, stand up.]] In fact, 70 years is a round age and a very beautiful age. There is one who has also been a Secretary of State for 40 years today, who is not round at all, the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Pedro Nuno Santos, who is now 40 years old and who also brings the deserved congratulations from here. [[General applause, having the PS applauded standing.]] So, in this party and Easter environment, we will proceed to the vote. Before that, Secretary Duarte Pacheco will not present any list of anniversaries, but announce file that he has meanwhile entered the Bureau. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u227	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and have been admitted to the following legislative initiatives: proposals by lein.o 70 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — regulates the application and enforcement of restrictive measures adopted by the United Nations or the European Union and establishes the sanctions regime applicable to the violation of restrictive measures, which falls to 1. the Commission, 71 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Legal Regime of the Central Registry of the Effective Beneficiary and transposes Chapter III of Directive ( EU ) 2015 / 849, which falls to 1. the Commission, and 72 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Establish measures to combat money laundering and terrorist financing by transposing Directive ( EU ) 2015 / 849 and implementing Regulation ( EU ) No 2015 / 847, which falls to 1. the Commission. He also entered the Bureau, and was admitted, Bill No. 497 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — prohibits the implementation of new concessions for the exploitation of hydrocarbons in the national territory ( BE and PAN ), which falls to 11. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u228	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us then go into the voting period and check the quorum. I would ask the services to act on their mechanism and on the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, please register. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u229	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u230	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u231	Mr President, 14 Members of the CFP are present at the bench, but only 13 are present in the table and we cannot identify who the honourable Member has not been able to register.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u232	Your comment is recorded, Mr President. Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 208 presences, to which 2 are added, signalled to the Bureau, a Member of the PCP and Fernando Jesus, of the PS, which makes 210 Members present, so we have a quorum for deliberation. Let us then begin the voting, beginning with vote No 278 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Despite the death of Carmen Chacón ( PS ). I call on Secretary Idália Serrão to proceed with the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u233	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Garcia Lorca wrote in 1918: ‘ See life and death/ The synthesis of the world/ That in deep spaces/ They look and embrace ’ Words that sound with the news of Carmen Chacón’s death. The short life of a woman who marked the Spanish political life in an indelible way. Featured militant and leader of the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, appreciated and respected by their peers. José Luís Zapatero, President of the Government of Spain and Secretary General of the PSOE, defined it as the ‘ first’ in all: loyalty, solidarity, competence, conviction and determination. A contagious energy and a sweet smile of those who want to enjoy life at every moment, celebrating every day that their heart allowed them to live. From early on, Carmen Chacón knew that his heart could stop at any time. That never stopped her from moving forward with her dreams. She was Minister of Housing and later the first woman to be Minister of Defense. The struggle for gender equality, that the image of you, pregnant, to pass a review to the Spanish troops, became an icon, was your life. I would have to say, about that moment: ‘ Sooner or not, it was clear to me that my first obligation was to visit those who are able to put their lives at risk for higher values — the freedom of others. A pregnant woman is not a patient. ’ Even taking risks, I wanted to be a mother. Ironically, his last public talk was about the role of women in politics. Leave counsel to women and men: ‘ If you want to be mothers, do not sacrifice your motherhood for work. No one will thank you for that. The same for men. Enjoy. They can certainly do both. ’ Carmen Chacón was a mother, woman, politician, lawyer, active citizen in the construction of Spanish democracy. In fact, it is the stories about the Frankish regime that led Carmen Chacón to want to be political, to defend equality of opportunity for all. A remarkable woman dies, but remains the memory of her struggle and work for future generations. ‘... Life and death, the synthesis of the world. Carmen Chacón is a symbol of modernity and progress. Just as when he took up the defense folder he pronounced the phrase that remained for the story ‘Captain, be firm’, today we also say: we will continue firm, Carmen! The Assembly of the Republic addresses the Kingdom of Spain, the Socialist Party of Spanish Workers, the son and other family of Carmen Chacón. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u234	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following vote No 279 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Condemnation and regret for the attacks in Stockholm, Egypt and Germany ( President of RA, PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and Os Verdes ), which will be read by Secretary Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u235	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « last Friday, the terrorist barbaria had its epicenter in Stockholm, when a truck deliberately shook who passed through one of the most bustling streets of the city. This attack killed four people, leaving many more wounded. Once again, different nationalities were reached. Once again, it was humanity in its all that was struck. Two days later, Palm Sunday in the Christian calendar, the values of tolerance, pluralism and respect for minorities would again be tested in two Coptic churches of Alexandria and Tanta in Egypt. last Wednesday, in Dortmund, we witnessed the new attack, although happily without mortal victims to mourn. In three attacks, once again claimed or inspired by Daesh, 48 people died and hundreds were injured. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, reaffirms Portugal's commitment to the fight against terrorism and expresses its most vehement condemnation of the attacks, conveying its greatest sympathy to the families of the victims, the Swedish, Egyptian and German authorities and their respective peoples. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u236	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the votes that we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute of silence, and then applauded.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 791 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Movement of the President of the Republic to Brazil ( President of the HR ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote on draft resolution No 162 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government benefit from road accessibility to the Municipality of Barrancos ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 777 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government consider the benefit of road accessibility to the Municipality of Barrancos ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] Let us now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 782/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government recover the maintenance liability accumulated between 2011 and 2015 by means of an intervention in road infrastructure for access to the Municipality of Barrancos ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 522 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the inclusion of the Convent of San Francisco in Portalegre, in the list of buildings that integrate the REVIVE ( PS ) project. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP, votes against the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and BE abstention.]] The following is draft resolution No 543/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Suspension of the REVIEW programme and compulsory public scrutiny on concession procedures ( BE ) for which the PS requested that points 1 and 4 be voted together and then separately points 2 and 3.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u237	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u238	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u239	Mr President, it is to request that this draft be voted on point-by-point.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-04-13.u240	Let us then begin by voting point 1 of draft resolution No 543/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a). [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 2. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote on point 3. [[The vote was taken by votes to BE and PAN, votes against the CFP and the Greens and abstentions from the PS, PS and CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on point 4. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the CDS-PP abstention.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the overall final vote of the final text, submitted by the Health Committee, on the proposal for a law No 33 / XIII ( 2 ). (a ) — Establish and regulate the national oncology register, including its purposes, data collected, forms of access, the entity responsible for its administration and database processing. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, after the vote, we have reached the end of our agenda. The next plenary meeting will be held next Wednesday beginning at 3 p.m. and will have on the agenda a debate on the Stability Programme and the National Reform Programme. I wish everyone, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, a great Easter. The session is closed. [[It was 12 hours and 43 minutes.]]
