ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Members of the Staff and Members of the Commission. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, I declare open the session. [[It was 10 hours and 7 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, since there is no record to read, I will immediately take into account the rules of law. These are the following: proposal for an addendum to Article 3. o-B — Prohibition of captivating in the areas of health, defence, internal security and justice of the CDS-PP ; Article 4. o — Conditional use of budgetary appropriations; proposal for an addition to Article 4. o -A — Budget allocation for the Porta 65 - Youth Programme of the CDS-PP ; proposal for an addendum to Article 4. o -A — Capacitations in health, BE ; proposal to add an article 5. o -A — Ministerial Offices of the PSD ; Article 9. o — Budget transfers; Article 15. o — Transfers to foundations; proposal for an addendum to Article 18. the -A - eliminates the reduction of 10 % to the amount of unemployment allowance after 180 days of grant from BE ; proposal for an addition to Article 35. the -A - Progressive integration of scientific research scholarships in the career of scientific research and updating of scientific research scholarships, of the CFP ; proposal to add an article 43. o -A — Contraction of Portuguese Gestive Language Interpreters for the National Health Service, the NAP ; Article 61. o — Amounts of the participation of local authorities in State taxes ; proposal for an addition to Article 64. o -A— Amendment to Law No 56 / 2012 of 8 November 2012 of the PS ; Article 66. o — Agreements on the regularization of debts of local authorities; Article 67. o — Efficiency in municipal or intermunicipal systems; Article 68. o — Payment to concessionaires arising from judicial or arbitral decisions or rescue of concession contracts; Article 72. o — Obligations assumed by municipalities in the process of decentralization of competences ; Article 73. o — metropolitan areas and inter-municipal communities; Article 74. — Financial aid and technical and financial cooperation; Article 75. o — Reduction of debt; Article 82. o — Settlement of Polis companies; Article 84. o — Recruitment by local authorities of expenditure relating to the national counterpart of projects co-financed by European funds; Article 89. o — Loans from municipalities for urban rehabilitation operations; proposal for an addendum to Article 89. o -A— Introduction of the application of the System of Accounting Standardization for Public Administrations of the PS ; proposal for the addition of Article 89. o -A - Official animal collection centres ( in conjunction with the authorities), The Greens, proposed to add an article 89. o-C — Access to the solidarity complement for the elderly, BE ; and proposal to add an article 119. o -A — Reduction of charges, non-renewal and reversal of public-private partnerships of the CFP. The Bureau is waiting for entries for speeches and each parliamentary group has five minutes on appeal together. [[Pause.]] Mr Adam Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, the PSD presented, yesterday, 19 amendments to the State budget. 19 proposals were submitted, 19 proposals were submitted. The control compressor roll is implacable!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u3	The proposals were bad!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u4	Management understands that in the country it sends and only it and nothing is done without the design and approval of management. [[PSD applause and PS, BE and PCP protests.]] Four parties defeated in the last elections are the ones who rule this country relentlessly.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u5	It's been two years!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u6	With authoritarian will, of course. The authoritarian will that sometimes involves aspects of hypocrisy, opportunism and also of calculism. Well visible, indeed, in relation to what happened yesterday and to what is happening today with Article 19. the, so as to predict the progression of the careers of public servants. Matter of the greatest importance, perhaps of the most important matters of the State Budget for 2018, say, and, however, there are no lawyers. No one wants to debate this matter again, neither the Left Block, nor the CFP, nor the Greens. That's extraordinary! Nobody wants to! What's going on here?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u7	Did you lawyers?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u8	You didn't avocado!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u9	What is happening in the face of a situation in which the CFP, the Left Block and the Greens had alternative proposals which were plunged by the Socialist Party and yet they do not complain, do they not say anything? But why this hypocrisy? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u10	Get ahead!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u11	Worry about your party.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u12	Why is this illusion of public officials? Truly unacceptable! [[PSD applause.]] Today, the country is aware that the Left Block, the PCP and the Greens, with the sympathy of the Socialist Party, behave in the context of a tremendous farce, a tremendous hypocrisy, a tremendous illusion that uses public officials at their pleasure and according to their interests. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u13	This PSD lawyer was about what! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u14	Mr João Galamba of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor. [[Pause.]] The PS Parliamentary Group did not present any lawyers and therefore it would prefer that there be interventions by the other groups that presented them and then, then, if they understand, intervene or not. Mr. José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u15	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the PSD did a rhetorical exercise here, but in concrete nothing. [[PSD protests.]] I'd like to remember, ladies and gentlemen. Members, who, if the PSD wanted to, for example, proposals from the Left Bloc on careers could have been approved.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u16	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u17	How did the PSD vote? Did you vote in favour? Don't! He didn't vote in favour, he voted against. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, speaking up, we're tired. I wanted to talk about two very important proposals for people and for those who live in your work in our country. In 2012, the right-wing government changed the ceiling on unemployment and introduced a 10% cut in the subsidies granted more than 6 months ago, presenting this cut perversely as an incentive to the active demand for employment by the beneficiaries. Well, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the idea that deprotection and poverty are incentives for activation — a very specific idea of the PSD and the CDS — is part of an unacceptable prejudice against people, who treats them as lazy, who treats them as powerful fraudulent and resulting from a wrong conception, according to which the unemployment allowance would be a favour to the State and not a right of workers resulting from their discounts. The rule we advocate and the approval of the Block's proposal restores justice to tens of thousands of unemployed, ending the 10% cut, and it also rests, which is not little, dignity in the relationship between the State and its citizens. The same will be said of the proposal for supplementary pensions. It is a very important measure against a horrendous injustice that the former government has done to pensioners, workers who were between 30 and 40 years old on discounts and who were cut between 50 and 70 % of their pension, below the poverty line. With this standard, the Bloc guarantees that no pensioner with these contributing careers will have an income below the poverty threshold. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u18	Mrs Ana Virginia Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u19	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, the CFP presents proposals to go further in strengthening higher education and science: stability of scientific research scholarships and updating the amount of scholarships; strengthening the means for State laboratories; extension of school social action to ensure the right to education for all, even at the highest levels of education; not exacerbating the financial situation of students and their families, at the level of tips. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the use of research scholarships to carry out the scientific work of the SCTN (National Science and Technology System) is a way to devalue this work due to the precariousness of existing links. To combat this precariousness, the PCP proposes the progressive integration of all fellows into the scientific career and, while this integration is not realized, an annual update of the scholarship, in addition to an extraordinary update in 2018. For the CFP, State laboratories are essential instruments for national sovereignty, in all areas where they provide services and develop scientific activity and have to be restored to their operating conditions, including their modernization and strengthening of means. To implement school social action policies and ensure everyone's access to education, the CFP proposes the creation of a plan for the construction and adaptation of university residences throughout the country, allowing the increase of more 1000 beds in 2020.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u20	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u21	The PCP defends the freeness of teaching in all degrees and the abolition of propines. However, as it is urgent to alleviate the financial situation of students and their families, the CFP proposes that the increase in propines be suspended during the school year 2018 / 2019. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u22	Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u23	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: Today we advocate the proposal of Article 43. o -A to the Budget, concerning the hiring of Portuguese gestal-language interpreters for the National Health Service. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, do you know how a deaf citizen communicates in a hospital with the doctor to pass on his feelings? It may seem simple, but it is not. Either you are accompanied by a friend or a relative, or you pay from your pocket to an interpreter, because otherwise you do not communicate. Mrs. Gentlemen, do you think this is bad? So imagine a medical emergency scenario in which this citizen does not have exactly time to prepare to go to the hospital and, therefore, it may be impossible to make himself understood in an emergency situation. Currently, the accessibility of deaf people to all public services, including the National Health Service, is not guaranteed. Hospitals do not have Portuguese gestal interpreters. If accessibility means the possibility of accessing any service, then we will only be a truly accessible and inclusive country on the day when all people can enter a public service and be cared for and understood with all the normality with which each one of you is. Ladies and gentlemen, you do. The law prohibits and imposes discrimination on the basis of disability, but there is discrimination as long as there are citizens living outside the newspaper. Worse, this discrimination is part of the State itself, because it is not guaranteeing conditions of equality for all, as its duty is. Thus, it is necessary to ensure the presence of interpreters in the National Health Service throughout the national territory, ensuring the access of deaf people to the health service, allowing equal access and care. thus, the NAP proposes the hiring of Portuguese gestual interpreters so that there are at least three interpreters per district, which means about half a hundred of these technicians.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u24	Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u25	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, today the CDS is advocating three articles. Two with regard to captivating and another. We're doing these lawyers because we think it's important. After all the discussions we had about captivating—in the case of the CDS for more than a year and a half we have been talking about this—we think it is important that it be the plenary today to assume this responsibility. The fact is that after more than a year and a half the government has denied, in some cases until it enjoys it, saying that there were no, finally, it has come to admit that there are seizures and that they have had a very negative impact on people's lives.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u26	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u27	We would also like to point out that, in addition to this fact, it is vital for us that some proposals from the CDS, from the point of view of the matter, have been approved, because the fact is that the CDS was the only one for a long time to be beaten by the end of the captivitys in vocational training. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u28	The government first denied, then used and yesterday the PS presented a proposal exactly for that purpose. And, obviously, at the same time that he presented a proposal for this purpose, he rejected an exactly equal proposal from the CDS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u29	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u30	...what is a point I think is worth discussing. Yesterday, management inaugurated a new way of doing politics. It is political sectarianism or political sectarianism taken to its extreme. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u31	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u32	We had absolutely unbelievable voting times.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u33	Hilarious! Nonsense!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u34	For example, there was a proposal from the CDS on the Porta 65 - Young program, which was rejected and, after 5 minutes, I repeat, last 5 minutes, Mrs. Members, an equal proposal from the PS...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u35	Iepsis words!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u36	...has been approved. For you, it doesn't matter what impact there will be on people's lives; for you, it matters who proposes. Your vote depends on who you propose, the impact that will have on people's lives is a secondary matter. That is, we watch up to a contest, which is the PCP / Block contest, about who will put the next outdoor. No matter who proposes, no matter what the proposals say. This is a fundamental principle of serious policy, whether in power or opposition. And the lawyers that the CDS proposes today represent that very much. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u37	Mr. João Galamba has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u38	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, today is Thursday and therefore is the day when PSD and CDS say the left-wing majority is solid. If it were Wednesday, it would certainly be untidy and, on Friday, perhaps, we would return to it, but it is Thursday and, therefore, it is the day when the left-wing majority is solid and in which they complain. Mr. Members, I understand that they complain when they are in the minority, but it is a fact that they are in the minority and it is a fact that they have to get used to being in the minority. Mr Adam Silva even opened a new type of complaint here: he complains that certain parties do not advocate standards that the PSD considers important, forgetting that the PSD itself decided not to advocate those same rules. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr President, my complaint is wrong with you, and perhaps it is time to overcome these traumas. The CDS returns here to the subject of captivating with the falsities of the custom.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u39	Falsehoods? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u40	Mrs Cecilia Meireles came here to say that the seizures have cost Portuguese much suffering or have degraded the lives of Portuguese people. Mrs Deputy, it is difficult to find some reduction in expenditure in the area of health in relation to the expenditure that you did when you were in the government. It is that the captivating correlates negatively with the expenditure in these areas,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u41	That can only be a joke!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u42	... there was a strengthening of services in all areas. The honourable Member has already realized that she cannot attack the Budget or the health execution due to cuts that do not exist, but do not invent new cuts, calling them captives, because you are not, Mrs. I understand that the CDS is very upset that, even with captivating, often in some areas, even stronger than those of this government, they have never met any budgetary goal. I understand that this leaves the CDS somewhat indisposed, but they do not invent and, above all, do not attribute to captive cuts in health services provided to citizens, because this simply did not exist. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u43	Tell people that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u44	Mr. Secretary of State of the Budget has the floor to speak on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u45	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what the right is proposing to us today, here, on the subject of captivity, is an exercise of hypocrisy. He came to propose what he never implemented when he was in government. Either general exceptions to seizures in Ministries, which never had the courage to apply when he was in government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u46	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u47	Except that the right was not limited to captivating, it cut dramatically in budgets: more than EUR 1000 million in cuts in the Ministry of Education, more than EUR 400 million in cuts in the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u48	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u49	It wasn't just captivating, it was then, at first, cuts in budgets. What the right here proposes is therefore an exercise of hypocrisy, because it is frustrated with the success of the present majority. They only want the government and the majority to fail to be able to return to power and therefore propose what they do not believe in and what they have never done. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u50	On the part of the Left Block, Mr. Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u51	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Left Block approved yesterday an amendment to the Budget which guarantees greater transparency in capitulations, but also guarantees the end of capitulations in health,... [[Ah!]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u52	... and not only in the National Health Service but also in the public institutions essential to health policy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u53	It's a clown!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u54	There were seizures in the past: the Directorate-General for Health had captives of EUR 6, 5 million ; the SICAD ( Intervention Service in Addictions and Dependencies ) had captives of EUR 2 million ; the INEM ( National Institute of Medical Emergency ) had captives of EUR 15 million. These funds could and should have been used in the development of health policies,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u55	So, Mr. Secretary of State? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u56	... to hire professionals for INEM, to finance projects in the area of reduction of risks associated with consumption, for example, but the truth is, Mrs and Mrs. Members, it is that with the proposals submitted and approved by the Left Block in 2018, with the end of the seizures, health will have more money available and will be possible to make more investment. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u57	Mr João Oliveira, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u58	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, yesterday, some important proposals from the CFP relating to the end of the 10% cut in unemployment benefit and the possibility of hiring in the Public Administration, identifying sectors that are priority, three important aspects on the progression of career workers, including issues such as the points to be allocated for years that have not been evaluated or the possibility to be applied more than one point in the case, for example, of nurses, in which there are rules pointing to this; and also the elimination of Article 19(4). the proposed law, which created difficulties in progressions. But important proposals on captivating have also been adopted. On a proposal from the CFP, investment in education, health and transport is unblocked and it is now possible to have conditions for the investment necessary in 2018 to solve the problems of schools, hospitals, health centres, equipment that needs to be renewed and maintained and also of public enterprises, particularly transport, since the possibility of making investments already included in the business plans is unlocked. If the gentlemen. Members of the PSD and the CDS want to talk about proposals for captivating that truly change people's lives, can give thanks to the proposal of the CFP that was approved yesterday. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u59	Mrs Helena Roseta of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u60	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CDS proposed to Gate 65 - Young people the same value that the Socialist Party proposed and today has called for this proposal. I want to say the following: it is not enough to increase the allocation of the Porta 65 programme — Youth, it is necessary to regulate the lease market, which is completely deregulated, and the CDS has enormous responsibilities in this deregulation, I repeat, huge responsibilities. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it was your income law that undoes the connection the PS had left between the value of the income and the state of the house. And that's why people today are asking for astronomical incomes for houses that have no value or living conditions. This issue is fundamental, because it is not enough to increase the Porta 65 - Young, it is necessary for young people to find houses with a rental value so that they can even apply. Your proposal does not go there, your position is not that, your responsibility is very great. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u61	Mr Bruno Coimbra of the PSD Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u62	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I remember that it was the PSD that took up the issue of youth emancipation and young leases on the agenda a few months ago. It was the PSD that proposed here, in this Chamber, the enlargement and strengthening of the allocation of the Porta 65 programme, and the other parties joined. He joined the CDS and we believed that the PS had also adhered, but yesterday we were surprised by the lead of the PS, the PCP and the Block to the measures proposed for Porta 65. Therefore, of two, one : either the PS is against young people or the PS is misleading young people, trying to chum some measures to then appropriate them, as if it were the PS to have ideas and concerns. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u63	Mr Matias of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, days ago, the first award for the Best Public Event of the World World Festival, a competition with 300 candidates from 27 countries, came to Portugal, with the project of the Presidential Train, developed in a partnership between the National Railway Museum and a company. Also days ago the National Railway Museum was considered by the public one of the five best national museums to receive families. However, due to lack of funding, this Museum, of the Foundation National Railway Museum Armando Ginestal Machado, will be able to close on 1 January. This Foundation is an absolutely credible entity. It counts among its founders, entities such as IP, Portugal's infrastructure, Siemens, SA, and the City Council itself. however, ladies and gentlemen. Members, without the amendment which, through the Budget Act, the Left Block proposes that it be introduced into the Foundation Act, none of the founding entities ( or others to join them) may increase the financial transfer to the Museum. We propose that this impediment be removed and that the National Railway Museum Foundation join the list of exceptions to the blocking of financial transfers — funding that, I hope, may arise in time to save this project so valuable for our country. It's in your hands, ladies and gentlemen. Members, keep this Museum open or close on January 1 of next year. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u65	Mr Bruno Dias of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u66	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the CFP requires the fuller to advocate its proposal on public-private partnerships ( Article 119 ). o -A). PPPs cannot continue to be this fundless bag where billions of euros of public money disappear year after year. The debursement of investment, the delivery of unacceptable income to economic and financial groups, arbitral jurisdiction — withdrawing contracts from the jurisdiction of the state courts — all serves to damage the public interest, and all of this has to have a final point, once and for all.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u67	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u68	The most recent example of the SIRESP ( Integrated System of Emergency and Security Networks in Portugal ), as well as the entire procession of ruinous contracts in the road and in health sector, confirm not only the damage resulting from PPPs to the state, public service and populations, but also the need to address the problem of PPPs, returning the public control of the services concerned.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u69	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u70	This immediately requires the non-renewal of PPP contracts, together with the review of existing contracts, with the aim of reversing services and infrastructure to the State. in the first phase of this process, the CFP proposes that, as early as 2018, the State transfer to PPP dealers only the revenues to be collected by concessions — tolls, moderate rates, etc. — in addition to the funds which guarantee the maintenance of the jobs necessary for the provision of the service of each concessionaire. It is also proposed that the renewal of PPP contracts which have expired should be prohibited and that the necessary measures should be taken to refer to the state courts the resolution of existing disputes under those contracts. If the gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they really want to...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u71	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President. You've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u72	... «structural consolidation» in the Budget, here are a lot to take: look at the PPPs and approve our proposal. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u73	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, today there must be great rigour with time. Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, strange majority, this one! It is a very strange majority, indeed, ladies and gentlemen. Members, because on the same day the same Members are in favour of giving more than 12 million euros to the Members. Government members to finance their offices, are in favour of strengthening their budget by 23 % and are against the limitation of seizures in public services. [[PSD applause.]] Shame! The same day, with a few minutes of difference! And, Mr. Secretary of State of the Budget, we had already realized that you were not brilliant,... [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u75	Don't be unpleasant!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u76	... but the UTAO report (Technical Budget Support Unit) can help you. The limit that we presented as a ceiling for captivity is lower than the average ceiling of what was made in the four years of austerity. Now that austerity is over, we are still setting a higher limit, and you are against it. There is degradation of public services, all of which say it, including parties that support the government, but at the moment of truth they are against setting up a ceiling for captivity. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u77	You have to have the courage to say, don't hide behind half-words.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u78	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u79	You don't have morals to talk about this House in bad public services, in over-captives. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u80	Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u81	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members, I should perhaps remind Mr Adam Silva of the PSD, that whoever chooses the proposals for lawyers are the respective parliamentary groups. It is not the PSD who has the right, or even the duty, to choose the proposals to advocate the other parliamentary groups. [[PSD protests.]] On the other hand, it would also be important to remind the honourable Member that if the PSD proposals have been dropped, it is very likely that they did not serve and because in fact the PSD does not have the majority of Members in the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u82	Well remembered! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u83	Perhaps it is not bad to remember that in the last legislative elections, by the will of voters, PSD and CDS have lost most of the Members in the Assembly of the Republic. That is why you cannot convince yourself in any way. But let's talk about votes and bad votes. Yesterday, the Greens presented a proposal, which was voted on in committee, for the construction and modernisation of a national network of official animal collection centres. Paragraph 1 of this proposal was approved. In other words, thanks to The Greens next year in 2018, there is an appropriation of EUR 2 million for the construction and modernization of official animal collection centres, vulgar canis and cats. What was the meaning of the PSD's vote on this proposal? Abstention. This proposal was adopted, with the votes of the other parliamentary groups. But why is it that the PSD has decided to abstain from this proposal, when the responsibility of the State, in cooperation with the authorities, to provide the country with a national network of animal collection centres even comes under the law? That is why we cannot see this vote. Perhaps now, with the vote in plenary, the PSD can be redeemed from yesterday's behaviour and today's vote in favour, so that this proposal is adopted unanimously. But the Greens' proposal had a paragraph 2, which deals with the fact that the technical conditions for sterilization are created in these collection centres. As is public knowledge and the Assembly of the Republic, The Greens have had a long battle, and a long history here, in the Assembly of the Republic, to change the paradigm of slaughtering animals and move on to the paradigm of sterilization, to control of populations. in this sense, it is not understood why this proposal has been plunged, particularly with the votes against the PS, a parliamentary group to which we appeal to vote in favour of this paragraph 2 of the Greens proposal. The creation of technical conditions so that this paradigm of sterilization can be implemented is urgent and, in this sense, the Greens also propose an amount so that these collection centres can be provided with the necessary technical conditions. We therefore call on the PSD, this time, to vote in favour of paragraph 1 and the PS now voting in favour of paragraph 2 of the proposal presented by the Greens, a proposal which, I think, has a great deal to do with animal welfare in our country. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes and PCP Member Bruno Dias.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u84	Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u85	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, here was the idea that I would have said that the present majority was solid. Mr. João Galamba, I didn't say it was solid, said it was sectarian.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u86	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u87	Solidarity and sectarianism are two quite different concepts.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u88	Quite!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u89	He said that, and that is because what happens is the institutionalization of the competition from the outsider. You only care who has the merit of having approved the measure and who can say that the measure has been approved. Then what happens in people's lives is secondary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u90	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u91	I would like to draw attention to the fact that this logic, which has been inaugurated, that it is only logical that if we start to consider voting against the proposals of all the parties of which we disagree, we will never again approve proposals of anyone strictly, other than those of the same party. This cannot be, which means that we all vote against everything. All right, ladies. Members: if the CDS said, for example, that the PS put the country on the brink of bankruptcy — which is true — and therefore has no moral to propose whatever it is, then the CDS would vote against everything. It does not seem right to me and, above all, it does not seem to me that this benefits the Portuguese, and that is why we are here. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u92	They're just complaints!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u93	They're not complaints, they're democracy!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u94	Secondly, with regard to allegations of exercise of hypocrisy, Mr. Secretary of State, exercise of hypocrisy is to announce expenditure, it is to negotiate expenditure, to sit in this place, and then come into captivity; exercise of hypocrisy is to have the members of the Government systematically announcing measures and works for which, after, there is no money; exercise of hypocrisy is the PS having gone all the time to say that there were no captives and then approving proposals to limit and extinguish them. [[CDS applause.]] - PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u95	Mr. Secretary of State for Social Security has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, today, two measures adopted yesterday to the plenary were advocated: the elimination of the 10% cut off of unemployment benefit and the possibility of access to the solidarity supplement for the elderly by pensioners with pensions in advance due to flexibility to long-term unemployment, allocated from January 2014. Assigned from January 2014, the year in which the previous Government decided to increase the retirement age by 12 months, in a single year, and in which it decided to increase the sustainability factor. [[PSD protests.]] These are the pensioners who had their pension damaged; these are the pensioners who, for two years, were unable to access the early retirement, in a diploma that, of good memory or bad memory, was published on a Thursday, holiday Eve, at 5 p.m., in supplement, and who caught all the missed Portuguese. This was the correction which was approved yesterday and which resulted from the fulfilment of a parliamentary agreement in the Assembly. Yes, because he rules who has the majority in the Assembly of the Republic. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot fail to mention a curiosity: yesterday all the articles in the Social Security chapter and, curiously, neither the bench of the PSD Parliamentary Group nor the bench of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group have advocated a single article related to social security. That says a lot, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u97	I also give the floor to the Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u98	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, at this time when we are discussing lawyers and, as you know, the government cannot do so, this debate is based on the lawyers that are made, but also on the lawyers that are not made.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u99	You're absolutely right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u100	It was important...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u101	Now, yes, put it all on clean dishes!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u102	It is also important to remember that the PSD and CDS presented proposals on pensions and did not advocate them.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u103	Well, I thought he'd stay with you!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u104	It is important to remember today that, although we meet the budgetary goal agreed with the European Union yesterday, we have not felt — nor have we nor the country — the need to go beyond what is agreed with the European Union, we do not feel the need to reduce corporate taxes, but we feel the need to improve the pensions of our reformees – that was what this Parliament did yesterday by increasing pensions in real value to more than 2 million and 500,000 pensioners............................................................................................................................................................................................................... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... and we fulfill the contract that the State has for its workers — the careers of civil servants are, from 1 January 2018, frozen. These are two lawyers that nobody wanted to make, but that it was important to remember: reformed, civil servants with contracts fulfilled. [[P.S. and BE Mariana Mortagua's deputy.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u105	There are no further requests for intervention for this first item on the agenda. We shall turn to point two, with the votes on the articles that have been voted on. First of all, we will check the quorum using the electronic system. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, the electronic framework records 205 presences to which 8 are added by the Members. Cristóvão Crespo, Duarte Pacheco, Helga Correia, of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Ascension Simões, Marisabel Moutela, Paulo Trigo Pereira and Susana Amador, of the PS Parliamentary Group, and of Mr António Filipe, of the PCP Parliamentary Group, making 213 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote. We begin with the vote on proposal 108 - C, tabled by the CDS-PP, to add an article 3. o-B — Prohibition of captivating in the areas of health, defense, internal security and justice. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, votes in favour of the CDS-PP and abstentions from the PSD and the NAP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u106	So what about the pasta companions? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u107	We're not sectarians!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u108	I'm asking the ladies. Members who keep as much silence as possible, because it is impossible for the Bureau, with so many votes to take place, to be able to properly point out the sense of vote if this background noise is maintained whenever there is a vote. We moved on to Article 4. o — Conditional use of budgetary appropriations. Since there is no opposition, we shall proceed to the vote under Article 4(1) ( a), ( b ), ( c ) and ( d ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We turn to the vote on proposal 297 - C, submitted by the PSD, which amends the body of Article 4 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP and abstention from the NAP.]] Since there is no opposition, we are voting together on the body of paragraph 1, paragraphs 2 and 3 and points (a) and (b) of Article 4 ( 4 ). o. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall now vote on proposal 585 - C of the CFP, which adds a point ( c) to Article 4 ( 4 ). o [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall proceed to the vote as there is no objection to Article 4 ( 4 ( c) to (j ). The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the votes against the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP were adopted and the CDS-PP abstained.]] We then voted on proposal 437 - C by the PS, which adds points ( k ) and ( l ) to Article 4 ( 4 ). The proposal of the law. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the body of Article 4 ( 4 ). The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] Together, and since there is no opposition, we shall vote on Article 4 ( 5 ) to ( 9 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were adopted.]] We now vote on Article 4 ( 10 ). The proposal of the law. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP, against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] We proceed with the vote on proposal 110 - C, tabled by the CDS-PP, amending Article 4 ( 11 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected.]] We are now voting on proposal 297 - C of the PSD's authorship, which amends Article 4 ( 11 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Article 4 ( 11 ). The proposal of the law. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP, against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] We voted together, since there is no opposition, paragraphs 12 and 13 of the same article. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The vote is followed by the vote on proposal 437 - C submitted by the PS, which adds paragraph 14 to Article 4. The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We are now voting on proposal 585 - C of the CFP, which adds paragraph 14 to Article 4. The proposal of the law. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall vote on proposal 88 - C, submitted by the CDS-PP, to add an article 4. o -A — Budget allocation for Porta 65 - Youth Programme. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and the NAP were rejected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u109	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u110	To what effect, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u111	Mr President, it is to inform you that I will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u112	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. The vote is followed by the vote on proposal 128 - C, submitted by BE, on the addition of Article 4. o -A — Captivating in health. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall vote on proposal 287 - C, submitted by the PSD, to add an article 5. o -A — Departmental offices. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected.]] We move on to Article 9. o — Budget transfers. We continue with the vote on proposal 348 - C, submitted by the PSD, which adds paragraph 38 -A to the Map of Budget Changes and Transfers. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP were rejected.]] We now vote on Article 9. The proposal of the law. [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP, against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] We turn to Article 15. o — Transfers to foundations. We shall vote on proposal 409 - C, submitted by BE, which amends Article 15 ( 4 ). The proposal of the law. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We shall vote on Article 15 ( 4 ) ( 4 ). o [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PSD and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We shall now vote on proposal 352 - C, submitted by BE, adding an article 18. -A— eliminates the reduction of 10 % to the amount of unemployment allowance after 180 days of grant. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u113	We move on to Amendment No 607 - C, tabled by the CFP, to add Article 35. o -A.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u114	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u115	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u116	Mr President, with regard to Amendment No 607 - C, I would like to request that paragraphs 1 and 2 be voted on and then paragraphs 3 and 4 should be voted on.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u117	We shall then proceed to the vote on the proposal 607 - C, tabled by the CFP, for the addition of Article 35. o -A— Progressive integration of scientific research scholarships into the career of scientific research and updating of scientific research scholarships. Let us vote first paragraphs 1 and 2. [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We are now voting on paragraphs 3 and 4 of that proposal. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected and votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall vote on proposal 57 - C, submitted by the NAP, adding Article 43. o -A — Contraction of Portuguese Gestal Language Interpreters for the National Health Service. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of BE, The Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD, the CDS-PP and the CFP.]] We turn to Article 61. o — Amounts of participation by local authorities in State taxes. Since there is no opposition, we shall vote on points (a), (b) and (c) of Article 61 ( 1 ) and the body of Article 61 ( 1 ). o [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention of the PSD were adopted.]] We now vote on Article 61 (2), (3) and (4). The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, the votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP were adopted.]] We shall vote jointly on Article 61 (5) and (6). The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP, against the CDS-PP and the abstention of the PSD.]] We shall vote on proposal 346 - C, submitted by the PS, for the addition of Article 64. o -A — Amendment to Law No 56 / 2012, of 8 November. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, votes against the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We now turn to Article 66. o — Agreements on the regularization of debts of local authorities. We shall vote on proposal 36 - C submitted by the CFP amending Article 66 ( 1 ). o. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE and the PCP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The vote on Article 66 ( 1 ). the proposal of law is thus impaired. We shall jointly vote on Article 66 ( 2 ), 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9. o. [[When put to the vote, the votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP were adopted.]] We turn to Article 67. o — Efficiency in municipal or intermunicipal systems. Let us begin by voting together on paragraphs 1 and 2. [[When put to the vote, the votes against the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP were adopted and the CDS-PP abstained.]] We shall now vote on proposal 37 - C submitted by the CFP amending Article 67 ( 3 ). o. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the CDS-PP abstention.]] We now vote on Article 67 ( 3 ). o. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PSD, the CFP and the Greens were rejected, votes against the PS and the BE and the CDS-PP and the NAP.]] Let us turn to Article 68. o — Payment to concessionaires arising from judicial or arbitral decisions or rescue of concession contracts. First of all, we voted for proposal 356 - C, submitted by BE, replacing Article 68. o. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We turn to the vote on proposal 46 - C by the CFP amending Article 68 ( 1 ( a ). o. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The vote on Article 68 ( a ). the proposal of law is thus impaired. We shall jointly vote on paragraph 1 ( b ), the body of paragraph 1, points ( a ) and ( b ) of paragraph 2, the body of paragraph 2 and paragraphs 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 of Article 68. o. [[When put to the vote, the votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP were adopted.]] Mrs. Members, let us vote on Rule 72. o — Obligations assumed by municipalities in the process of decentralization of competences. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the Greens and the NAP, the votes against the PCP and the CDS-PP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We turn to Article 73. o — metropolitan areas and intermunicipal communities. We shall vote on paragraph 1. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall now vote for paragraph 2. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We turn to Article 74. o — Financial aid and technical and financial cooperation. We shall begin by voting on paragraph 1 of that Article. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall now vote on the remaining part of Rule 74. o. [[Put to the vote, the votes against the PCP and the Greens and the abstentions of the PS and the CDS-PP were adopted with votes in favour of the PS, BE and PAN.]] We shall now vote on proposal 631 - C, submitted by the PS, adding Article 74 ( 4 ). o. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE and the PAN and the PSD, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens.]] Article 75 is hereby followed. o — Reduction of debt. We shall vote on paragraph 1. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall vote together on paragraphs 2, 3 and 4. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We turn to Article 82. o — Settlement of Polis companies. We shall proceed to the vote as a whole on paragraphs 1, 2 and 3. [[When put to the vote, the votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP were adopted.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Rule 84. o — Recruitment by local authorities of expenditure relating to the national counterpart of projects co-financed by European funds. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE and the PAN, votes against the PSD and abstentions from the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens.]] We now turn to Article 89. o — Loans from municipalities for urban rehabilitation operations. We shall vote on proposal 343 - C, tabled by BE, amending Article 89 ( 1 ). The proposal of the law. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall then vote jointly on Article 89 (1) and (2). o. [[When put to the vote, the votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP were adopted.]] The vote was followed by the vote on the proposal 362 - C submitted by the PS for the addition of Article 89. o -A— Introduction of the application of the Accounting Standardization System for Public Administrations. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We must then vote in an unbundled fashion on proposal 387 - C, tabled by The Greens, for the addition of Article 89. o -A— Official animal collection centres (in conjunction with the authorities). We shall vote on point 1. [[Subject to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] Let us now vote on point 2. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We shall vote on proposal 534 - C, submitted by BE, adding Article 89. o-C — Access to the solidarity complement for the elderly.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u118	Mr President, I would ask that the vote be taken separately from point 3 of this proposal by the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u119	Let us then vote on point 3 of this proposal. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and PS, in favour of the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the CDS-PP.]] We are now voting on the remaining points, points 1, 2 and 4 of the proposal 534 - C, of BE. [[When put to the vote, the votes against the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP were adopted and the CDS-PP abstained.]] The vote is followed by the vote on proposal 22 - C of the CFP, an addition to Article 119. o -A — Reduction of charges, non-renewal and reversal of public-private partnerships. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against PS, PS, CDS-PP and PAN and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP and the Greens.]] Mrs. Members, let us now return to the speciality of Bill No 100 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — State budget for 2018 — Article 120. Article 191. o. Mr Pedro Filipe Soares asks for the floor to speak to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u120	Mr President, it is only to record Mrs Sandra Cunha, who was unable to do so, to intervene on the proposal 319 - C of BE, to add an article 120. o -A.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u121	All right, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u122	I also call on the Bureau, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u123	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u124	Mr President, the Conference of Leaders established, by consensus, 21 hours last Friday as a deadline for the submission of amendments to Bill No 100 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — State budget for 2018. That period was eventually extended during that night and successive proposals for the replacement of proposals that were already accepted have come in. With some latitude, they were all accepted. however, this morning, at 1 hour and 42 minutes, new proposals have come in — and they are not being replaced, are new amendments. from that I wonder if the Bureau has admitted them for the purpose of discussion.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u125	These proposals, as you know, are submitted to the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation ( COFMA ) for a vote, and do not enter the Bureau of the Presidency. I think this has happened every year, so I don't think this year we're going to innovate. There must be good sense, but I think the proposals should be accepted.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u126	Should they be accepted? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u127	As Mr President has mentioned, the proposals have been sent to the Commission's e-mail, but they are supposed to be discussed and to have an impact on the articles we are going to discuss this morning. from then on, one: or these articles cannot be discussed so that, within the Commission, the admissibility of these proposals is discussed, or Mr President admits them, so that they can be discussed this morning. That's the question I ask you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u128	I think I should have admitted them to be distributed to the different parliamentary groups and to be discussed this morning.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u129	Mr President, I waited for Mr President to speak on what was the Bureau's decision to be able to say that this undermines the minimum rules of loyalty and seriousness in the development of our work. If that is the case, we do not want to set deadlines and we all deliver the amendments at the time we find them appropriate. If so, the deadline is merely indicative and the 630 proposals could have come in during the weekend, today, tomorrow, until the end of the vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u130	Mr President, when there is no consensus on this matter, then I propose, contrary to what I said before, that these proposals be distributed now, that this situation be appreciated by COFMA and that, if accepted, their vote be postponed for another time. [[Congrats from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u131	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u132	Let us then return to the speciality of Bill No. 100 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — State budget for 2018 — since Article 120. up to Article 191. o. In order to intervene on the proposal 612 - C of the PS, it was included in Article 120. o -A — Centralized funding for compensation, support, prevention and firefighting expenditure — Mr Luís Testa. [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]] [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u133	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize for this waiting compass for the Bureau's organization of work. Let us therefore appreciate the proposal 612 - C of the PS for the addition of Article 120. o -A — Centralized allocation for financing expenses with compensation, support, prevention and firefighting. Mr Luís Testa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the country has experienced, this past summer, moments that it considered unthinkable, a catastrophe that we all thought we would never see. In view of this scenario that occurred in Portugal, this reality is hard to admit, but what happened to us, it is necessary to react. It is necessary to repair the victims, rebuild housing and businesses, strengthen prevention, strengthen the means of combat. It is necessary to provide the Country with public equipment and public policies that serve the instruments of public management in the forest, support municipalities in the construction and reconstruction of secondary networks and fuel management ranges. It is necessary to train human resources, strengthen the means and equipment in the prevention and fight against fires. It is basically necessary to mobilise resources. That is why the Socialist Party presents a set of amendments to the State budget that enable this position to be strengthened: from then on in the IAPMEI 100 million euros that pass from the results to 2018 in support of companies; in Portugal 2020 80 million euros in competition to support investment that manages jobs in these affected regions; still EUR 35 million, with the support of structural funds, for the replacement of municipal public equipment; and, finally, EUR 135 million from the PDR 2020, in support of forestry and reforestation. in an exceptional scenario, exceptional measures are absolutely imperative, but exceptional measures that affect the future and that are lasting, such as measures contained in the exceptional regime of secondary networks and fuel management ranges. In order not to repeat this reality, exceptional measures, such as mechanisms to support the reconstruction of permanent dwellings, must be given priority. We need to speed up the process and we need to do all of this with budgetary balance. These public policies are policies and measures 'beyond' and not 'instead of'. In addition to the return on income, in addition to the defrosting of careers, in addition to the capitalisation of companies, in addition to public investment, these measures are included in this State budget to support the population and the economic fabric. It is the great difference between those who, in the face of a catastrophe, mobilize the country and who, in the face of a crisis, mobilized against the Portuguese. It is in view of this difference that we are here to build Portugal that deserves to be. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u135	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u136	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, here we begin to examine a series of proposals which are somewhat dispersed from the various parliamentary groups on the issue of fires. On behalf of the CDS, I would like to say our position on all the proposals. The CDS presented a number of proposals in relation to these matters, relating, from the outset, to the necessary strengthening of the means of combating fires, and also to the necessary creation of tax exemptions and deductions for victims affected by these fires, as well as the necessary creation of exemptions, within IRC, for companies affected by those fires. In addition, including, and already in a perspective of the future, thinking about that—and that is a lot! — to prevent such a tragedy from happening again, we proposed that this House of the Republic should be able to approve a committee composed of the Ombudsman and a member indicated by each of the parliamentary groups in order to lift those which could be the fiscal needs for the creation of incentives for people to stay or even go back inside. It seems to us that this is a proposal that reveals responsibility and seriousness. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u137	instead of choosing to be in a gross way to propose measures with tax impact, with an impact on revenue, we proposed that the whole Parliament, like what has been done in other areas with regard to fires, could indicate a member, a prosecutor presumably, that is, someone who could help in this survey and in this set of proposals that are necessary for there to be a true tax status specific to the interior. We hope and therefore hope that this proposal will be worthy of unanimous approval by this House. But, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with regard to the proposals for addition and, in particular, to proposal 612 - C, with regard to the addition of Article 120. the -A, presented by the PS, means, on behalf of the CDS, the following, with a sense of state, and contrary to what has happened in the votes of the Left Block, the Portuguese Communist Party, the Greens and the Socialist Party, despite this proposal to add not to the CDS, but to the Socialist Party, we will vote-CL - favourably, because we are not sectarian, we are responsible because we put the country in front of the outdoors and petty party interests, as other parliamentary groups have not done. [[CDS-PP applause.]] I would also like to make it clear that we will vote in favour of all these proposals, with the exception of a number and a point, for which I also draw the attention of the Socialist Party, to which I would like to call for an amendment. It concerns Article 120 ( 1 ) ( a) of the proposal 612 - C. o -A, which reads: « 1 - A centralized funding is created in the Ministry of Finance (...) » to deal with (...) » : a) Compensation resulting from the deaths of victims of forest fires (...) ». Ladies and gentlemen. Members, once again, the Socialist Party forgets the serious injuries, those who are unable, permanent in some cases, in particular to work. The CDS warned, the President of the Republic warned, but the Socialist Party continues to insist on forgetting to include serious injuries. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I shall repeat: '(...) compensation from 'deaths'...'—deaths! —... [[Dead!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u138	... «... of the victims of forest fires in mainland Portugal, on 17-24 June and 15-16 October 2017 ». Mrs. Members, I am reading the proposal with the Socialist Party's logo. However, this not only reveals disrespect for the victims, for the families of the victims, but also shows disrespect for the words given by the Prime Minister when, urged by the President of the Republic, he assured that he would include the issue of serious injuries. I therefore call on the Socialist Party to replace the proposed amendment so that it can include in this paragraph and in this issue the question of serious injuries. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u139	Mr João Ramos, from the CFP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries in support of forest fire victims, forest fire protection, family and rural agriculture and regional development promotion, the CFP proposes 44 measures, organized in five areas of action, with the concern of making an integrated approach in the budget response and the allocation of EUR 785 million. With this proposal, the CFP guarantees the funds for awarding compensation, restoring productive potential and ensuring the income of farmers until the replacement of pre-existing income. The PCP proposes strengthening firefighter support, exemption for corporations from radio-telecom charges, support for strengthening corporate equipment and equipment and individual protection. The CFP proposes the strengthening of GNR ( Republican National Guard ), the reactivation of the teams of the Fire Analysis and Use Group ( GAUF ) and the strengthening of state air resources.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u141	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u142	The CFP proposes funds for meeting the targets in the creation of forest slag teams and for re-equipment of existing teams. The CFP proposes money for strengthening human resources in the reconstitution of the forest guards body, with the hiring of 200 effective, and the strengthening of human resources at the ICNF (Instituto da Conservação da Nature e delle Forestas), with the hiring of 150 workers annually over the next four years. The CFP proposes funding for the development of fuel management networks, the strengthening of surveillance networks, the implementation of the National Controlled Fire Programme (NFP), a pastoral support programme, the reprogramming of the RDP 2020 ( Rural Development Programme 2014 - 2020 ) and the strengthening of national participation to 25%, a baldium support and revitalization and defence programme for the Leiria pine and protected areas. The CFP proposes the implementation of defence plans, evacuation and concentration of the village population in the forest environment. in the context of family agriculture, fundamental to the occupation of the territory, the CFP proposes a pilot programme of positive discrimination, support for the regularization of farms, support for livestock and traditional small and medium sized regades. The CFP also proposes the allocation for strengthening and revitalizing agricultural and forestry cooperatives. As a mechanism for promoting regional development, the CFP proposes strengthening the social functions of the State, including the reopening of services, the extension of human and material resources and the improvement of public transport and the elimination of tolls. The CFP proposes the reprogramming of Portugal 2020, with the aim of fixing ceilings for projects in NUT ( Territorial Unit Nomenclature ) III of low density. These measures will be supported by revenue to be entered in the budget of the Ministry of Finance as an interim appropriation. The tragic fires showed structural vulnerabilities in the demographic, energy, spatial planning, infrastructure and public services plans, inseparable from four decades of right-wing policy carried out by successive governments. The solution to these structural problems is a policy reversal and the CFP proposals make a contribution to this. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u143	Mr Pedro Soares of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Left Block presented a set of amendments to this State budget and sought to ensure that they had some consistency, so it presented a package on fires, forests and support for victims. Among the various measures envisaged in this State budget, I would like to make a special reference to one that has a huge impact on the poorest families and on the economy itself of these territories, which is support for family agriculture, informal agriculture, which extends even to those who are not registered in social security, or finance, or to the IFAP (Instituto de Financing for Agriculture and Fisheries ), but which, in fact, have an absolutely essential income supplement in informal agriculture for their survival. As has been said by the authorships of those regions, this economy is essential for these territories, so these small farmers who have suffered losses up to €5,000 must be compensated directly and the State budget will allow it to be so. But I would also like to refer to the proposal from the Left Block on the creation of new forest slag teams. Investment in forest with a faster effect on job creation in rural areas of the interior and with greater immediate effectiveness in fire prevention is investment in sustainability, re-equipment and the creation of new forest slag teams, so it is essential that this State budget should adopt this proposal for the creation of 210 forest slag teams by the end of the year. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u145	Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u146	Mr President, when the Greens presented here, throughout the various legislatures, a number of proposals to reinvigorate the country's interior and combat regional asymmetries were also aimed at promoting a forest fire prevention policy. When we here, in the Assembly of the Republic, are always opposed to the closure of public services, when we proposed support for companies that settled inside, when we proposed support for family agriculture, it was also always in the interest of trying to implement this re-enactment of the country's interior and this fight against regional asymmetries. in this State budget, The Greens also present a set of proposals that they consider to be fundamental to the prevention of forest fires, or, as some Members may like, to designate, to create some structural measures in relation to our forest. I want to say that the Greens' proposals will not be exhausted from this state budget package. In the very short term, we will present here in the Assembly of the Republic a series of legislative initiatives that will continue this intense work of The Greens in favour of a more resistant forest and therefore also for the greatest security of the population. in the State budget, we present for the time being a proposal to anticipate the entry into force of the legal regime of reforestation and reforestation. It was a work that The Greens sought to implement intensely in this legislature, in order to remove the effectiveness of that famous « law of the liberalisation of the eucalyptus », of the authorship of the deputy Assumption Cristos, then Minister. The Minister of Agriculture has come to say that the deadline for the entry into force of that scheme could have been cut short, but he himself proposed it. The Greens, who are rightly interested in the fact that this will enter into force as soon as possible, then propose that this State budget should enter into force on 1 January 2018 and that it should not be referred back to the front of this regime, which, in fact, needs to be amended. We also propose the hiring of more than 25 nature watchers in 2018, in addition to the 50 that were hired and for which tenders were opened in 2017. We also propose protective measures to prevent soil erosion, contamination of water and risk of waste resulting from the fires that took place, the scourge and the drama that took place from them. On the other hand, we also propose the creation of an extraordinary contribution to the cellulose sector, in the sense that there is a contribution from these companies, which basically reign in our forest, to implement, precisely, a new dynamics of planting indigenous species and also to compensate small family farmers for the possibility of making the choice for other healthier species for our forests. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u147	Mr. Secretary of State for Civil Protection has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to note that, as regards what happened last summer, the Government has all the financial instruments prepared to assist companies, authorities, private entities, forest owners. The whole of what has been disseminated on this subject is generally planned in this State budget and Community funds and own funds have been mobilised from our budget so that these problems and those issues can be resolved. On the issue of serious injuries, it is also known that the Prime Minister has already made a commitment to have this matter resolved in the very short term. With regard to what is next — and in this respect I would like to concentrate very much — we have a great deal of work to do, especially in order to bring about the prevention and fight against fires and also to ensure and make a feeling and a culture of security prevalent in our population that we have no sense to this day. We will never tolerate that next year villages and people isolated in these villages are overwhelmed by fires difficult to fight and, even in those difficult circumstances, we will never tolerate anyone dying in a village, much less near a road. So let us immediately start a great work in the field of prevention and, for this, we have already met with the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities (ANMP ) and with the parish, in order to mobilize local authorities for this design, which will surely tell a lot to all those who live in the interior. To this end, of course, we are developing a set of projects with the Ministry of Agriculture to, in the short term, operate in our forest, which, in these places, as in almost all places, is not properly ordered and does not protect people at least, so this culture of safe person and safe village is one of the great projects that we have in mind to develop immediately. To that end, we want private owners in all areas surrounding villages, isolated houses, business parks, and even roads to have their clean areas of vegetation easily consumed by fire — eucalyptus, pine trees, gestas, acacias. A list will appear so that everyone knows what to clean up, and in these spaces we want to keep the native trees, such as oaks and chestnuts, all those that have guaranteed environmental quality. This purpose will, of course, force us to have a great publicity of this obligation and a permanent follow-up of several agents, so that this purpose is fulfilled: from then on, the GIPS (Protection and Relief Intervention Group), the SEPNA (Natural and Environmental Protection Service), the authorities. Then, if some owners do not do this cleaning, by ignorance of their spaces, of land, or by some laxism, of course, will be the municipalities to develop this work, so that, at the end of May, we have the villages safe, the safe industrial spaces, the safe roads, the prumadas, the electric lines and the corridors of the pipelines also duly safe. This is the work we have ahead of us immediately. Of course, at the same time, we are reforming the entire civil protection system. We know that the State Budget guarantees the strengthening of the GIPS, SEPNA, forest guards, forest safadors, but at the same time we have to properly define the structure of the National Civil Protection Authority (ANPC ), we have to frame firefighters in the initial attack and expanded attack in a more organized way, bringing more knowledge and more knowledge to the whole system. This is what we are doing at the same time with this purpose of quickly having all the villages safe and people secure as well. We know that our forest will take many years to ensure the resilience we want. This is a work of generations, but immediately — and I would like to stress once again, strengthening this idea — people inside must feel safe. That is what we want to ensure, and we feel that we have in the State budget the financial tools necessary to ensure this work, in a profound reform that we are developing. This is what I wanted to say, especially by overcoming people's security. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u149	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u150	Mr President, following what was said by Mr. Secretary of State for Civil Protection, to whom I wish the greatest happiness in the exercise of duties, I am taking advantage to reiterate what the CDS has just done: an appeal to the Socialist Party, author of the proposal to add an article120. the -A, so that in its paragraph 1 (a) it may add « serious injuries ». Mr. Secretary of State, I have no doubt that you wish to comply with the Prime Minister's word, but the truth is that the Prime Minister's word is not in the State Budget. But with this comfort from the Secretary of State, I would like to reiterate the appeal — even as a challenge — to the Socialist Party so that we can come up with a proposal that adds serious injuries to paragraph 1 (a), because otherwise we know that one thing is what Mr. Prime Minister says and another thing is what the government, governed by Mr. Prime Minister, does. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u151	We move on to another proposal for Article 120. o -A, but under the heading « Victim Service Rooms », by the authorship of the Left Block. Mrs. Sandra Cunha from the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, violence against women and domestic violence are of the oldest and most abject attacks on human rights that persist in the world today. Domestic violence and dating violence continue to increase in Portugal. The consequences of the domestic violence crime reveal their greatest exponent in homicides, the number of which requires the courage of effective actions and of support and protection services that guarantee equal access to all and to all. Today we know that the specialized teams and the service rooms to the victim of GNR and PSP are the guarantee of more qualified care, in a secure environment and in privacy conditions for victims who are so often in a distressing and extremely vulnerable situation. We know that only 63% of the teams and posts are equipped with these rooms. The Left Block proposes that the Government complete the process of installing the victim's care rooms during 2018, ensuring the coverage of the national territory. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u153	Mrs Elza Pais from the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u154	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, combating domestic violence is a political priority of this governance. Much has been done: care rooms for victims of sexual violence, LGBT victims, shelter homes for men, citizenship programs to educate young people. Even this week in the European Parliament's FEMM Commission ( Women's Rights and Gender Equality ) it has been seen that Portugal is in line with compliance with the Istanbul Convention. But domestic violence, as Mrs. Sandra Cunha said, persists, is a fight without any truce. As long as there's a murdered woman, we can't stop doing this fight with persistence. The government is planning the structure of new victim rooms at the GNR and PSP stations. However, there are structural inadequacies that need to be resolved within the framework of planning law programming. What is feasible is not the opening of all specific care rooms to victims in 2018, but the opening of as many specific rooms as possible for this type of victims as the government is planning to do. I would also like to point out that, even without the opening of these rooms, there is no victim in our country who, in the teams where they do not exist, does not have properly qualified assistance. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u155	Let us turn to Article 123. the, which has by name « Shops of the Citizen ». Mr Amadeu Soares Albergaria, to whom I give the floor, is inscribed.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u156	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u157	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u158	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau to register Mr Amadeu Alberdaria, but for the proposal of Rule 123. o-C. It was our pardon, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u159	We therefore turn to the proposals for Articles 123. the -A— Free textbooks in basic education, BE, 123. o-B — Recovery of school canteens from public education and education establishments, one from the CDS-PP and the other from BE, and 123. o-C — Reduction of the maximum number of students per class in the start years of cycle, of BE. Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u160	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the Left Block presents three proposals for investment in education, with direct and immediate impact on the quality of public school, but also on the equality that the public school must build on the lives of students and families. The first proposal refers to the reduction in the number of students per class. What the PSD and CDS did was increase the number of students per class to cut a few million in public school. What the Left Block wants is to reduce the number of students per class to increase investment in public school, because there can be no classes with 30 students, teachers with 300 students and say that there are conditions for a quality public school. The second proposal has to do with school canteens. The quality and quantity of food in school canteens outraged the country. The diagnosis is made: it eats badly and eats little in most canteens given to private. The solution is to evaluate the quality and quantity of these canteens, but start to prepare the way for schools to recover the management of the canteens, because they are the schools that better know what food their students need, because they know them. The third proposal of the Left Block relates to the extension of the free of charge of school textbooks to 2. o is 3. the basic education cycles. This is a basic measure of equality in a public school which the Constitution also says must be free of charge. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, both mentioned the need for investment in education, so there is an opportunity to vote on these three proposals, very concrete, with a great impact on the lives of students and on the lives of families. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u161	You now have the floor to Mrs Ana Rita Bessa from the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u162	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, as Mrs Joana Mortágua has said, the proposal for Article 123. The -A of the Left Block aims to introduce free textbooks for all students - and, to simplify, let's say that for poor and rich - in state schools between 5. o and 9. the year of education and leaves out secondary education. Changing into kids, what does that mean? It means, for example, that a public official who has a child in high school and who is in 3. the family allowance step receives from the state 36 €.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u163	Well, well! [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u164	But for example, a banker who has a son in 7. the year of education will receive 150 € from the State budget, i.e., we exchange disadvantaged secondary students by students rich in basic education.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u165	These are paying more taxes!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u166	And it had to be like this? No, it didn't have to be like that! There was another form of gradualism in the policy of school textbooks that the CDS, yesterday, proposed here: simply increased social action for all students until the end of high school. We know that in high school textbooks are more expensive, we know that secondary school dropout is higher and therefore for the CDS the question is very simple: if there is gradualism, then first help those who need the most in all compulsory education.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u167	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u168	But this has already been done last year!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u169	But the Block, the PCP and the PS decided to make this exchange of disadvantaged high school students to fund students rich in basics and lead our proposal. We will see how the PS today votes for the Left Block proposal, we will see what choice it makes when the Block introduces into the State budget 70 million euros, which is more than what will be spent on this State budget in adult education, more than it will be spent on the national school success programme and 10 times more than the PS wants to spend on technology in schools. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u170	Mrs Ana Mesquita of the PCP now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u171	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the CFP presents proposals for defending and valuing public school, of which I highlight the following: the extension of the freeness of school textbooks, the reduction of the number of students per class, the breakdown of mixed classes and the supervision and public management of school canteens. As regards the extension of the freeness of school textbooks, we must say that it is following the proposals submitted and approved in previous State budgets, in particular in 2016 and 2017, by the CFP. We defend that, already next school year, enlargement opens up the school textbooks of the students of the 2. o is 3. the basic education cycles, which continue with the reduction of the number of students per class in all schools and groupings and not only in the Educational Territories of Priority Intervention (TEIP ), to produce the most beneficial effects that the measure can bring to the quality of the teaching-learning process. Thus, the CFP proposes the reduction of the number of students per class in all public establishments in the early years of 1. o, 2. o is 3. secondary education cycles, and in classes that integrate students with special educational needs. The CFP also considers that measures should be taken to decouple mixed classes with non-sequential years of 1. the cycle already for the school year 2018 / 2019, but safeguarding that no school is closed in the process. in the proposal presented in its paragraph 1, the CFP also advocates strict supervision of school canteens and also proposes that, progressively from the spring of 2018 / 2019, the Government adopts the necessary measures to take direct management of school canteens in schools of the responsibility of the central administration, and cannot result from this process an increase in the value of the meal collected. These are some of the proposals that we consider to be fundamental to improving the teaching and learning process we are bringing here today. We all leave the appeal to consider them and come to support them. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u172	Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u173	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, also in the context of improving our schools, The Greens are presenting several proposals to the State budget, of which I would like to highlight two in particular. One of the proposals refers to the number of students per class. This is a matter to which the Greens considered to give priority. Right at the beginning of the Legislature, we were the first party to present a bill on this matter because we considered it even a priority to be achieved in this Legislature. in this Budget of the State, The Greens propose that it go beyond what was achieved last year, restricted to TEIP schools, and that it now extend to all schools and to all school groups this goal of reducing the number of students per class, proposing that this reduction begin in the first year of each school cycle, therefore in the 1st. year 5. the year and the 7th. year. And we propose the reduction also in 10. the year, beginning of secondary school cycle. We consider this fundamental proposal to be, but it cannot be just to « fill the eye», so let us say, it is essential that it has practical effectiveness. And in order for the proposal to be practical, i.e. to create better learning conditions in our classrooms, it is essential that the minimum number to be reduced should be two students per class, which we consider essential. With regard to the food scandals that have occurred in the canteens of our schools, and given that the cause of these scandals and this concrete situation is due to the granting of these canteens to private companies, which seek to limit the number of workers to a maximum in order to obtain more profit and profit, deteriorating the service they provide to our children and our young people, The Greens considers it essential to create the category of cooks and to assist in cooking in our schools, so that those schools that do not make the option of granting may not abdicate from educational assistants to put in the kitchen, distorting the ratios necessary for the care of our children and our young people. We consider this fundamental issue and we have fought a great deal with the Government in negotiations for this State budget in order to effectively achieve a positive response to the reduction in the number of students per class, and we believe it is essential that all banks join in this. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u174	We now turn to proposal 538 - C of the BE, adding an article 123. o-C — Reduction of the maximum number of students per class in the start years of cycle — to the bill. Mr Amadeu Alberbergaria has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u175	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, all parties on the left presented proposals to reduce the number of students per class. These proposals are the confirmation of what we have always said. And what we always said was that the reduction in the number of students per class in the TEIP schools (Educational Territories of Priority Intervention) was a mere propaganda measure, because its impact was zero.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u176	Shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u177	The Ministry of Education is trying to deceive the schools and the ladies. Members are trying to be dissociated, as if they were not also responsible for the lack of direction of this Ministry, in fact, responsible because, in fact, those who send are the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. In addition to hypocrites, these measures are wrong. [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] They are wrong because they treat everything the same, when realities are very different, and they are wrong because they impose centrally what must be decided locally by the autonomy of each school.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u178	It's autonomy, it's! When was it to increase the classes there was also autonomy? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u179	As we have already proposed in this House, let them be the schools to decide the number of students in their classes. This is what schools want. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u180	We are now going to move on to the proposal 461 - C of BE, to add Article 124. o-B — Support for the establishment of forest management units — to the bill. Mr. Carlos Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u181	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the enormous tragedy of the fires has made it even more evident that the forest needs to be ordered and better managed so that the fire, which will always exist, will not become uncontrollable, by many forces engaged in the fight. Only the aggregation of the management of small plots of the forest held by a multiplicity of small owners will make it possible to gain size to apply rational planning plans, which make these small plots profitable and which, at the same time, order the rural area. The forest management units, UGF, already approved in the Assembly of the Republic, are the answer. The UGFs add adjacent parcels in the same management — the land will continue to own its owners, who manage them in common and on a larger scale — and, with greater size, order the rural area better, and may withdraw income. The UGFs may be a huge step forward in forest planning, but this step must also be strongly supported by the State budget. It cannot happen to forest management units what happened to the FIF (forest intervention zones), which are defined as a lack of support. It is precisely this support for the forest management units, UGF, that the Left Block is proposing to be included in the State budget. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u182	We now appreciate proposal 499 - C of the BE, adding an article 128. o -A (The creation of a programme to support artistic projects in school, strengthening the budget allocation of the Directorate-General for the Arts) to the bill. To submit the proposal, Mr Jorge Campos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u183	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: in fact, we bring two proposed additions, the first being proposal 413 - C, on the reactivation of the ProMuseus. The ProMuseus programme was established in 2006, with financial support for the renewal, modernisation and enhancement of museums of the Portuguese Network of Museums not dependent on the central government. In particular, it has enabled the sharing of human and material resources, the training of technicians and the submission of applications for requalification and valuation. The Programme was suspended by the PSD Government / CDS. As a result, museums not dependent on central administration, mostly protected by municipalities, now face the greatest difficulties. Therefore, the Left Block proposes to reactivate the ProMuseus programme, with funding in 2018 not less than €500,000, therefore an additional to the budget of the Directorate-General for Cultural Heritage. The Block also proposes, under existing legislation, the establishment of a programme to support artistic projects in school through DGArtes (Directorate-General of the Arts) to entities engaged in professional activities in this field. The proposal results from the recognition of the still residual presence of the arts in basic and secondary schools, the intention to promote the school's coordination with cultural agents, taking into account the centrality of the arts in the training of citizens and also the need to encourage collaboration between culture and education, moreover, repeatedly signalled by both guardianships. This support programme should, in our view in 2018, be strengthened by the Directorate-General for Arts not less than EUR 1,5 million. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u184	Mr Ivan Gonçalves of the PS now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u185	Mr President, I did not sign up to speak on this point.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u186	Well, that information didn't get to the table. Therefore, we turn to proposal 32 C, of the CFP, to add an article 130. o-B (Freeness of multi-use of disability attestation) to the bill. To submit the proposal, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u187	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government : Free multi-purpose certificate, exemption from costs for victims, better social protection for people with disabilities, strengthening of human, material and pedagogical resources in the context of special education, at all levels of education, are the issues that the CFP brings here. We propose the exemption of costs for workers injured in work or with occupational disease, regardless of their representation in court, ensuring better conditions for access to justice for these workers. The PCP proposes the free multi-use certificate. A document that is of primary importance to ensure that people with disabilities fully exercise their rights, such as access to social benefits, cannot have as a barrier to access their costs. Many people with disabilities have great difficulties and, in many cases, they cannot obtain this document for the cost associated with it. It is entirely fair that this document is required to access a set of services and rights, and until its implementation the CFP proposes that all specific documents and legal certifications attest to disability be recognised. with regard to better social protection for people with disabilities and, in particular, social benefits for inclusion, we note the progress already achieved, whether the problem of people with disabilities already in a state of reform is solved, whether the need to reassess the limits of accumulation of benefit, listening to the organizations of people with disabilities, concerns that the CFP has placed and raised. But we put others, which we have mentioned again: it is important to ensure that a date is set for the entry into force in 2019 of the phase relating to the support of children and young people with disabilities and to respond to people with disabilities currently excluded from access to this benefit, such as those who acquire or develop a disability after 55 years, and those who, with a disability of less than 60 %, have a disability that is equally incapacitating and limited. The consideration of these proposals takes important steps towards better social protection for people with disabilities. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u188	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now in a position to move on to proposal 379 - C of the BE, adding an article130. o-D — Social stock exchanges. You have the floor to introduce it, Mr Luís Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u189	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: Portugal has a higher education that unfortunately still mirrors social inequalities and has a deficit of investment in social action. These are examples of social action grants, an essential mechanism for combating school dropout, but still manifestly insufficient. The Block therefore proposes two amendments to the regulation: extending the number of subjects, passing the threshold from 16 to 17 IAS(indicating social support) and increasing the value of scholarships for disabled students, also changing the threshold to 18 IAS. They are two important steps that give positive answers to those excluded from the system and make higher education more inclusive and more democratic. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u190	We turn to proposal 363 - C of the BE, adding Article 131. o -A — Update of the benefit value for third-party assistance — to the bill. Mr. Jorge Falcato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u191	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: Third-person assistance allowance is allocated to families who have the right to sickness benefit in family allowance. The descendants must be in a situation of dependence and need permanent support. These are the poorest families, in which one of the elements had to give up employment to support your child or daughter or, even more serious, are single-parent families, usually women, who cannot have a regular job because they refuse to leave their children in any institution. It is less a wage at home or even the absence of wages and more expenses than those of any other family. It was in these families that we insisted with the Government on a substantial increase in this social benefit, because an increase of 51 cents was not acceptable, as happened last year. It was not an increase of 6, 4 € what we wanted, because it remains very little, but it is a step to help these families, as will be the status of the caregiver, for which we will continue to fight. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u192	We move on to proposal 294 - C of the PS to add Article 132. o -A — The Government will implement the scheme of reimbursement, by medical prescription, of health care expenses provided in the term. Mr Luís Soares has the floor to proceed with the presentation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: Expansionist austerity, virtuoso austerity, Pedro Passos Coelho, Vítor Gaspar and Maria Luís Albuquerque brought the concept of fiscal shock in 2011 and this shock came everywhere: to workers, pensioners and, even in health, to small sectors, such as donors and blood and thermalists. The goal was simple: cut, cut, cut. It wasn't captivating, it was cutting and cutting in a blind way. It was to cut without realizing whether it was fair, cut without realizing whether it was socially fair, left Portuguese behind, cut without even noticing or caring for whether the cut was the intended effect. The example of the participations of thermalism is perhaps the most paradigmatic, a cost to the state of €500 000, but with a brutal impact on people's lives: impact on health, because the thermalists have not stopped being sick and have had to seek other ways to counter their disease; impact on employment, in the many employees who had to leave their activity; impact on the economy; impact on the territory, in the territory where so many people speak today and where much of our term is located. Therefore, there is an indirect cost set that was not expected to abolish the participation of thermal treatments in 2011 by the previous Government. to the PSD government / CDS only mattered one thing: cut, cut in 2011. Today, the story is different. There are a number of new Christians who recognize today, contrary to what happened in 2011, the importance of the term and defend until the gradual replacement of participation. History is another, time is of contrition, time is of conversion, but time does not erase history and therefore the Socialist Party's proposal to restore thermal treatments with the participation of the SNS reflects only and only the work of the Socialist Party. The Socialist Party is not, nor has it ever been, concerned about the elections, nor has it ever been, kidnapped by any sector, much less by small sectors such as thermalism. When the PS restores wages, when it reintroduces pensions, when it reintroduces the exemption from moderate health rates for blood donors, for medullary donors, for firefighters, and when it proposes the replacement of the participation by SNS of thermal treatments, the PS is, alone and exclusively, kidnapped by the commitment to make Portugal a fairer country, budgetedly more balanced and fulfilling what are the objectives of defending Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u194	Let us turn to proposals 311 - C and 23 - C of the EB and of the PCP respectively for the addition of Article 132. the -A ( Amendment to Decree-Law No 113 / 2011, of 29 November ), 303 - C, of the CDS-PP, of the addendum of Article 132 - B. o ( Increases in the daily units of continuous care integrated from the National Network of Integrated Continued Care ), 438 - C, of the PCP, of the addendum of Article 132. o-B ( Investment Plan for Hospitals ), 327 - C of BE, adding Article 132. o-C ( Plurianual Health Investment Plan) and 512 - C of the PCP, adding Article 132. o-D ( Toxic dependency structure ). Mr. Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u195	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u196	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u197	Mr President, if I may, it is for an inquiry to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings and to contextualize the indication given by my Parliamentary Group to the Bureau for the intervention of Mr Moisés Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u198	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u199	Mr President, Mr Ferreira's speech will not only be on these articles but on all our proposals for amendments to the area of health, it has only been written down for these articles because that is where we have been able to intervene more reasonably.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u200	Mr Moisés Ferreira will then make this more comprehensive approach. Mr. Moisés Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u201	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As you have seen, the Left Block has presented several proposals in the area of health, and I would like to focus on two of them that guarantee easier and more equitable access to health care. The first is for there to be, in 2018, exemption from the moderate rate for chronic patients, because a chronic disease usually has other associated diseases and because the health costs for these people are higher. Another is to ensure that there is free transportation of non-emergency patients to people with economic insufficiency, and the reason is simple, that no one is prevented from going to a consultation or making a treatment for not having money for transport. These are two of the various measures presented by the Left Block for the area of health, two measures that will greatly improve people's lives and guarantee this basic principle: universal access to health, regardless of individual incomes. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u202	Mr António Sales has the floor in this connection.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group believes that the creation of the National Network of Integrated Continued Care (RNCCI) has been, and is, one of the major developments of the National Health Service ( SNS) since its creation. Its creation in 2006 had as its central objective the provision of health care and social support in a continuous and integrated way to people who, regardless of age, are in situations of dependence and have undoubtedly brought an improvement in the quality of care provided to the population, promoting care focused on the overall recovery of the person, promoting its autonomy and improving its functionality. Portaria No 353 / 2017, of 16 November, updates on the basis of the average change in the consumer price index by 0, 6 % as a determination coefficient in the prices to be in force. We understand that the Government should undertake a study aimed at, in the case of the National Network of Integrated Continued Care, and determine the terms of updating the regulations and values of the State's participation to providing organisations, mainly medium- and long-term, considering that, however, legal changes have been introduced that have aggravated the expenses of these entities and that the sharing of these values has not changed since 2011 when PSD and CDS frozen these values. The level of aging of our population, the increasingly demanding clinical situations of our elderly, the increasing technical requirements, require permanent and dynamic adequacy in the level of resources allocated, as well as a responsible attitude on the part of the providers and families whose involvement in the process becomes crucial in the pursuit of the objectives to be achieved. With a new expenditure of EUR 10, EUR 2 million and the creation of more than 600 vacancies on the network this government believes it is taking fundamental steps in the sustainability of the system and in the quality of the service provided. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u204	Let us turn to Article 135. — Share of generic medicinal products. Mrs. Angela Guerra, PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u205	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The article under consideration, already with the correction proposed by the Socialist Party, includes the Government's objective to increase the market share of generic medicines in units to 53 % within the National Health Service. It is appropriate to say that if the'skillful' paid tax, the SNS debt would be paid! It is that while the previous governments increased the market share of generic medicines by 31 % in 2011 to 47 % in 2015 in accumulated terms in these two years, this share rose by a few 0, 3 percentage points, thus to 47, 3 percentage points. And it is not even the 47, 8 % to which Mr Health Minister recently referred and which, as you have the obligation to know, only last July and not the quota accumulated since January this year — to such 'powerful' those whom Mr Adalberto has already used to us! Thus, trying to increase the share of generics to 53% in the next year, when in the last two the increase was 0, 3 percentage points, is pure scientific fiction, which is only at the head of those who believe that cows fly, I would say, in a modern socialist version, of course, in the history of carochinha. next year, we will be here to see, if the government has, however, the ability to change the methodology of calculating the generic market share to disguise its incompetence with secretary maneuvers, like what it has already done with the increasing user waiting lists for consultations and surgeries within the SNS. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u206	Mr. Secretary of State of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u207	Mr President, Mrs. Angela Guerra, I am a little puzzled when I hear about generic quotas, increase 0, 3 percentage points... Mrs. De Guerra, I think the most important thing is to look at the charges that users pay. [[Protests from PSD MP Angel War.]] If Mrs Deputy goes to the statistics she will see that in 2015 a Portuguese citizen spent €709 on medicines; with this Government, Mrs Deputy, this Portuguese citizen spends €690.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u208	That's not what the news says!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u209	On the other hand, the average price of medicinal products decreased and also lowered the average price of generic medicinal products in the outpatient clinic. The honourable Member said that the trend is for them to continue to fall, but they fall little. For it is, Madam Member, as the market has more generic medicines, and we, who know the generic market, know this very well, the margin of improvement is lower. [[Protests by PSD MP Angel War.]] But I would like to draw attention to something else that the honourable Member has forgotten, is the proportion of biosimilars in hospitals. As you know, we are faced with extremely expensive drugs in which biosimilars can represent almost half the price and is this brutal effort we have made with hospitals so that the biosimilars market assumes the importance it must have at home of 40 %, 45 %. This is what we're doing. As for the generics, as you have seen, the prices have fallen, the quota of 53 % is possible, is ambitious but it is possible, and I would say, Mrs Deputies, to finish, that the ambition is better than the backwardness with which you have led your health policy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u210	Go, go! Now, without austerity, they are the Portuguese who pay from their pocket a third of the drugs!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u211	We are going to discuss the following proposals submitted by the CFP : 527 - C, to add an article 141. o -A — National Plan for Development for Arts and Culture; 552 - C, adding an article 141. o-B — National Program of Cultural Heritage Emergency ; 448 - C, adding an article 141. o-D — Replacement of the Cultural Itinerances Programme ; 463 - C, adding an article 141. o-F — Additional support for the acquisition of technical material and renewal or maintenance of work spaces; and 572 - C, adding an article 141. o-H — Extension of the free entrance to museums, palaces and national monuments on Sundays and holidays. Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u212	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Structure of a true public service of culture, this is the proposal that the CFP brings within the framework of the State budget for 2018 and for this we propose five lines of work: a plan to reach 1% of the State budget for culture; the strengthening of public support for the arts to 25 million; the realization of a national programme for the emergence of cultural heritage; the extension of the system of free entry into national museums, palaces and monuments; and the development of public policies for book and reading. The CFP proposes that the Government draw its intervention in defining public cultural policies with a national development plan for the arts and culture, to be presented to the Assembly of the Republic in 2018, taking concrete steps towards 1 % of the State budget for the culture. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u213	From now on, start by strengthening funds from the Directorate-General for Arts for Public Support to EUR 25 million already next year. Take urgent measures to safeguard cultural heritage, strengthening the conditions for the use, study and dissemination and providing for the technical, financial, material and human resources necessary for this purpose. To safeguard the financial resources necessary for the recovery of the Peniche Fortress and the installation of a national museum dedicated to the fight for freedom and democracy. Promote cultural use by extending the free entry of national museums and monuments to Sundays and holidays to all museums under the care of central administration. To restore the Cultural Itinerances Program to complement and promote existing cultural equipment to create and consolidate reading habits and support the updating of documentary funds and the renewal of public libraries collections, being assumed the responsibilities of the central administration in this area. These are the proposals of the CFP in defense of the democratization of culture for the State Budget for 2018. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u214	We moved on to Article 142. o — Incentives in energy efficiency. Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u215	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP presents in this debate a set of proposals to the Budget to reduce the energy bill of consumers and micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. Firstly, we propose that the price of bottle gas and channelled GPL be reduced by means of a controlled price regime that supports populations, but also small resellers, in view of the exploitation and exorbitant prices of large oil. This is an essential sector for the vast majority of families, especially those with the lowest incomes. Therefore, the CFP does not give up in defending concrete and effective solutions to solve this problem. It is in this sense that we propose this measure. We also propose other relevant changes to reduce the energy bill, also in the factors that condition the so-called tariff debt and its implications for consumers. We propose that the CAE and CMEC contracts be renegotiated, with a view to their complete extinction, eliminating unacceptable incomes that some electro-producers continue to receive without any justification. We propose to promote the elimination of the payment of the power guarantee, plus a payment of totally abusive income, reflecting the tariffs to consumers. We propose that the costs resulting from the application of the social tariff to natural gas customers should no longer be borne by all end customers and be considered as operational costs of wholesale companies, as should be from the outset. Mrs. Members of the Government and Mrs and Mrs. Members, we must face the interests of the major economic groups and defend the national interest, the interests of the people and the real economy of our country. These CFP proposals translate this commitment into concrete energy measures. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u216	We will move on to proposals 2 - C from The Greens to add Article 148. o -A ( Transport Title — Pass 4 /NP 18 ), 175 - C, CDS-PP, adding an article 148. the -A ( Extension of the « pass sub23@superior.tp » to university students of the Autonomous Regions of Madeira and the Azores ), 332 - C of BE, adding an article 148. o -A ( Social Passes), 70 - C, of The Greens, adding an article 148. o-B ( Transport Title — Pass sub23 ), 383 - C, of BE, of addition to Article 148. o-B ( Amendment to Decree-Law No 203 / 2009 of 31 August ) and 320 - C of The Greens, of the addition of an article 148. o-C (Incentive to the study and knowledge of cultural heritage). Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u217	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block presents to this House two amendments to this Budget relating to social passes 4 /NP 18 and sub23. in the case of passes 4 /NP 18, proposal 148. o -A is to shape the principle of universality to all young people in this age group, applying a discount of 50 % compared to the normal social pass tariff. in this case, it is about returning to the principle of universality and to the same level of discount of 50 % that this House approved in 2009 and that the then Government of the Socialist Party has settled through Ordinance No 982 - B / 2009 of 2 September. in the case of passes sub23, proposal 70 - C, submitted by the Block, to add an article 148. o-B, in line with my principles of transversality and universality set out in the previous proposal, states that the pass sub23 should apply to all students and not only to the beneficiaries of social action at school and to all institutions of higher education in the country. The sub23 pass should also be extended to all authorized or granted collective transport services of the regional administration, i.e. the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira. The sub23 pass should also be extended to students of medical and architectural courses up to 24 years, since these licences are substantially longer than those of the others. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u218	Waiting now that with better luck, Mr Ivan Gonçalves has the floor of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party has a proposal on this point which aims to restore a measure supporting families and young people from 4 to 18 years of age, more specifically with the 25% discount on the social pass. However, this support, which has been cut off and for which the previous Government, PSD / CDS, has not seen any benefit in its universality, is important and, contrary to what the Social Democratic Party and the CDS now accuse us, the PS and the Government, allows us to demonstrate that this is not a Budget that gives everyone everything, nor a Budget that makes a left-wing austerity. on the contrary, this is a Budget that demonstrates that it is possible to govern differently, and to govern differently, it is precisely to make choices, which in this case will support sustainable mobility and support families that already have high burdens for having their young students studying in basic and secondary education. Therefore, these families deserve to take into account who is a service that must be provided by the State, which is a public school of quality, must have this support and must be given universally. We understand that this proposal, being submitted by the Socialist Party, should be well received by this House. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u220	We now move on to proposal 152 - C of PSD Members Paulo Neves, Rubina Berardo and Sara Madruga da Costa, to add article 149. o -A— Review of the scheme for the allocation of social mobility allowance in the context of air and maritime services between the continent and the Autonomous Region of Madeira and between it and the Autonomous Region of the Azores. Mrs. Rubina Berardo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u221	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is essential to review Madeira's mobility grant project. When we defend territorial continuity, we must adapt this programme to the reality that is living in Madeira and this theme cannot be further protected, in the same way that the extension of the pass under23 has also been extended to those living in the Autonomous Regions. This issue must be guarded in this State budget by means of this proposal presented by the PSD. [[Congrats from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u222	Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Finance, Ricardo Mourinho Félix, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u223	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are pleased to see this proposal from the PSD-Madeira, which recognises in fact that the social mobility allowance, as it is and as it was defined during the previous government, contains elements of a significant lack of economic rationality. The Government is available to initiate a discussion with the Regional Government of Madeira in order to create a more rational social mobility allowance, to serve Madeirans and mobility better and to allow everyone to enjoy a better service and a more cost related to service effectively. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u224	On the same proposal, Mr Paulo Neves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u225	Mr President, I would like to address Mr Secretary of State, who has just spoken to you, to say the following: bear in mind that we have already been presenting suggestions for improvement in this process for 18 months. If it's not changed, it's because you don't change. If it's not changed, it's because the Socialist Party doesn't support you to change. So this is no longer the system of the Social Democratic Party is your system, because what we are defending is the immediate deburocratization of the whole system and that the Macedonians and the Saints do not have to forward money to the state, because we are not a bank to forward the money that is the State that has to pay rather than those who use this system. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u226	You have the floor again, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u227	Mr President, Mr Paulo Neves, there are several elements in the social mobility allowance of the Autonomous Regions of the Azores and Madeira which certainly deserve the attention of this Government, in particular with regard to financing. But there is also the need to make the way the allowance is attributed more rational. And that is what we need from the regional governments to be able to create a subsidy that will make it possible to better serve the Autonomous Regions and allow for greater mobility at costs that can be borne by the budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u228	Mrs. Members, let us turn to proposal 224 - C of the PSD to add an article 156. o-D — Discontamination of soils and aquifers in the municipality of Praia da Vitória. Mr António Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u229	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Today, I want to appeal to the conscience of the honourable Members. Members to approve the PSD proposal aimed at decontamination of third island soils and aquifers. Probably, there is a people to die and the state cannot be seen as a murderer. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the time has come for responsibility, let's see who's responsible. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u230	On the same draft article, Mrs Lara Martinho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u231	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the various parties that have put forward proposals for the Third Island Economic Revitalization Plan ( PREIT ). This range of initiatives clearly demonstrates the awareness of the problem facing the Third Island as a result of the unilateral decision of the United States of America to reduce its presence at the Lajes Base. Let me remind you of how the Third Island Economic Revitalization Plan has emerged. We were in January 2015 and the United States of America announced the reduction of their effectiveness on the Third Island. In the light of this decision, the Government of the Azores has prepared and submitted a document detailing the situation on the island and the measures necessary to implement to revitalize the economy of the Third Island, with an emphasis on the necessary environmental decontamination, including ensuring the demolition, cleaning and global conversion of infrastructures and the environmental liabilities resulting from the military infrastructures at and outside the Lajes Base. The PREIT was immediately submitted to the former Government, PSD / CDS, but unfortunately it was not accepted as a guide document. Therefore, I am pleased to see that the PSD has already changed its position. However, it was lost for a long time, when the difficulties on the island were really many. Fortunately, this PS Government, within a few months after taking possession, signed the Joint Declaration of the Government of the Republic and of the Regional Government of the Azores, having made a number of commitments to the Azores and in particular to the Third Island. Taking up the Third Island Economic Revitalisation Plan as an guiding document, the Government has already made progress with the implementation of a set of commitments that have allowed the dynamisation of that island. I speak of the certification of Base das Lajes, of the departure of a low-cost company to the island Terceira, of the recent signing of the protocol for the installation of the meteorological radar of Santa Bárbara, of the support for the development of the port of Praia da Vitoria and the development of strategic projects such as the Atlantic security center. Therefore, with the proposal presented by the PS, the establishment of an agreement between the Government of the Republic and the Regional Government in order to ensure the fulfilment of the responsibilities shared by both, ensuring that the Government of the Republic pursues the implementation of the Third Island Economic Revitalisation Plan in accordance with agreed agreements between the two Governments. This proposal ensures that the Republic continues to develop the various projects that are enabling the dynamisation of the economy and, of course, total decontamination of the Third Island, which is indeed our main priority. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u232	We now move on to proposal 296 - C of the PS to add an article 161. o -A — Investment policy in housing for higher education students. Mr. Hugo Carvalho has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u233	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group brings to this debate a proposal for strengthening investment in the housing of higher education students. We know that the costs of housing today represent an important expenditure of family members in relation to higher education students. In view of the constitutional safeguard of the right to housing and the safeguarding of the principle of the progressive freeness of all teaching cycles, we believe that a short and medium-term response must be given to the costs of higher education students, in particular displaced students, and to housing costs. We do not resign ourselves to accept that access to higher education can be conditional on the costs of housing. Education and access to qualification are the main drivers and pillars of social elevation. We therefore propose that there be a clear extension of accommodation, university residences, and of the housing capacity installed in the education systems. To follow this proposal there is another that also reinforces the protection of displaced students with regard to the sharing and deduction of income in the IRS of 300 €. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u234	The proposal 7 - C of the NAP is now followed by the addition of Article 161. o -A — Grants for the construction of new dams. Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u235	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Data on food supply in schools indicate that the guidelines of the Directorate-General for Education for school meals and meals, buffets and automatic sales machines are not being complied with. This is particularly worrying since 25% of children and 33% of adolescents are overweight or obese. In addition, 69% of children and 66% of adolescents do not consume the amount of fruit and vegetables recommended by the World Health Organization. Therefore, since the distribution of fruit in pre-school education is not planned, we intend to amend this scheme in order to allow this supply. in the current context of decreased fruit consumption, especially among children, and the increased incidence of childhood obesity due to consumption habits that favour highly transformed foods that are often rich in added sugars, salt, fats or additives, the NAP understands that it is essential to strengthen the distribution of fruit in educational establishments as a way to promote healthy eating habits. It is important that schools be healthy food promoters, ensuring the human right to adequate food and nutrition, thus contributing to the health promotion of the population. in this sense, due to the importance of food education during childhood and the fact that it plays a fundamental role in promoting healthy eating habits throughout life, the NAP proposes the distribution of fruit to the 150 000 children attending pre-school education.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u236	Mrs. Members, with regard to proposals for the addition of Article 161. o-E, by decision of the PAR, will be discussed in COFMA, so we can move on. On the proposal 244 - C of the PSD for the addition of Article 161. o-C (Special Programme to Support the Return of Migrants) to the Bill. Mr. Paulo Neves has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u237	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In this proposal, the Social Democratic Party intends to strengthen support for those who have returned from Venezuela due to the economic and political situation in that country. We are talking about thousands of immigrants, who are Portuguese like us and who are returning mainly to the Autonomous Region of Madeira, but also to other regions of the country, as is the case with Aveiro. What we are asking for is a strengthening of support, a strengthening of support for reception and also the integration of these Portuguese people who return to a very difficult situation, and we must be very supportive of them. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u238	We now turn to proposal 573 - C of the PSD to add an article 161. o-L — Repeal of the additional to IMI and re-resistence of the seal tax on high-value buildings. Mr Jorge Paulo Oliveira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u239	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: They called it additional to the IMI, but it became known as « Mortagua tax », the price that the Socialist Party was willing to pay to the Left Block to stay in power. [[Protests of PS Members.]] There are also those who have already called it the tax of the delinquents, given the high number of people and companies caught by surprise with this tax bill. A tax bill that generated, and generates, inequities, that launched the chaos in the Tax Authority, which affected, and affects, the dynamization of the real estate market, which sowed the mistrust and removed potential investors from our country. This tax has, and has, one purpose: to get money to whom one day had the unfortunate idea of saving or investing. We can tax property of high value without creating an inappropriate, unfair and trapped tax.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u240	That's an insult to those who work!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u241	The revocation of the IMI supplement and the taxation of property of tax value equal to or greater than EUR 1 million in the form of a seal tax, compounded in the case of property held by companies resident in offshore territories,... [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] ...it is our proposal, it is the best proposal in this regard. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u242	Mr. Secretary for Tax Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u243	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: PSD shows well what your option is and we, most of them, also show what our option is, and our option is to tax those who can pay. Therefore, our option is to tax the property of those who can pay to be able to lower taxes on families who are poorer and who have less income. That's the difference! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u244	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us turn to Article 162. o — Amendment to the Code of the Tax on the Income of Single Persons. Mr. Jorge Machado has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u245	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The proposal submitted by the CFP proposes that the Government take the necessary measures to eliminate tolls in the ex-SCUT in 2018. The reduction by 15 % of the amount paid on some tolls implemented on the motorways, in previous model SCUT, was clearly insufficient. The guarantee of accessibility, mobility of populations, but also of goods and support for regional development requires the elimination of the tolls on these roads. Life has proved that the introduction of tolls has not solved any problem; on the contrary, it has been a barrier to regional development and a factor in worsening the living conditions of the populations. Just talk to the populations from north to south of the country, covered by the different ex-SCUTs, to realize that the tolls meant only two things: increased costs for companies and less wages at the end of the month. This is a real tax on mobility, which is a fundamental right of the people. Thus, the proposal of the CFP, which eliminates tolls in the ex-SCUT, is a measure that contributes to combat regional asymmetries, promotes economic growth and mobility of constitutionally consecrated populations. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u246	Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u247	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The government makes this budget an unprecedented attack on self-employed people, the same self-employed workers as often used as an example of precariousness in Portugal. [[Protests of PS Members.]] These independent workers are now going to have a worsening of their IRS, as they are going to have a worsening of the bureaucracy to meet their obligations. It is important to remember, at present, that we have a simplified regime, which, by the will of the Government and by the proposal of the State Budget, becomes a complicated regime, and the PS, dissatisfied with this, proposes an amendment in which the simplified regime becomes supercomplicated. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u248	The PSD gives the opportunity for at least here, the left parties to be consistent and, since they so often defend independent workers, to join the PSD in order to revoke the imnobial changes,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u249	Ignorious? Oh, my God! Did you guys get paid, and now you talk about geeks? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u250	... submitted by the Government and the Socialist Party to the simplified system of self-employed persons. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u251	Mr. Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u252	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The CFP brings the proposed debate which contributes to greater justice and fiscal equity. We propose that the maximum IMI rate be reduced from 0, 45 % to 0, 4 % by continuing to a previous proposal from the CFP, which has benefited hundreds of thousands of taxpayers. With this new reduction another step is taken to alleviate the IMI, a tax that was brutally aggravated by the previous government, PSD / CDS. We also propose that the so-called "old income" may be deducted from IRS. This is a measure that will benefit older taxpayers who have leases prior to 1990. But a fairer fiscal policy also requires more appropriate taxation measures on the profits of large businesses and on very high incomes. in this sense, the CFP proposes the increase of the state spill from 7 % to 9 % for large profit companies over EUR 35 million. This is something that should have already been done in 2015 in the context of IRC reform, but that the previous government, PSD / CDS, decided to put in the drawer. The CFP also proposes that taxpayers with very high incomes pay a little more than IRS due to an increase in the additional solidarity rate. Thus, for annual incomes of more than €80 000 we propose a rate of 3 % and for annual incomes of more than €250 000 we propose a rate of 6 %. We also propose, for this group of taxpayers with very high incomes, the compulsory inclusion of capital and real estate income, which prevents, for example, that a large company shareholder who receives millions of euros of dividends have an IRS rate lower than that company's employee receiving a modest salary. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: These measures which we are presenting in the field of expertise are in addition to those already contained in the proposal for a State Budget and for which the CFP has made a decisive contribution. These are measures such as relief from IRS, due to the increase in the minimum of existence, the collapse of steps of the IRS or the reduction of VAT for musical instruments. The former government, PSD / CDS, frozen the minimum of existence, knowing perfectly that this would aggravate the IRS of the poorest workers and pensioners.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u253	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u254	Now, on a proposal from the CFP, this situation is corrected and the minimum of existence increases €500, more than 200 000 family aggregates with very low incomes will thus have a significant relief in the IRS. On the other hand, the collapse of IRS steps will ensure a tax relief for nearly 3 million people with low and intermediate incomes, a relief that may amount to almost 300 € per taxpayer. Also on a proposal from the CFP, the VAT of musical instruments will decrease, allowing musicians to acquire their working instruments at a lower price. These are measures that have the mark of the CFP, measures that result in greater justice and fairness in our tax system. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u255	Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u256	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members : The use of the word simply states that, if there is any possibility of reducing the IRS, of course that this should be done, this reduction should take place, but the most correct way to do so would be to reduce the rates and there would be no need to change the steps. We know that, by extending the number of steps, we are in practice reducing progressiveity.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u257	Reducing the progressiveity of what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u258	And so we reject the proposal on the table and prefer to keep existing steps with a simple reduction of fees, and there is this margin to do so. It was a wrong path that the government went on. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u259	Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u260	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: In order to reduce the housing charges for families and protect and ensure the right to housing, the CFP brings the debate three proposals. We propose, as mentioned above, the reduction of the maximum IMI rate to 0, 4 %. We propose the deduction in IRS of income before 1990 and we propose the creation of a multi-annual reallocation programme. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u261	On a proposal from the CFP, the IMI has already fallen from 0, 5 % to 0, 45 % and what we propose is to continue this path, which the IMI now goes down to 0, 4 %. This is a proposal which is also part of the goal of recovery of rights and income and must be taken into account that the value of the IMI has increased, and has increased considerably at the initiative of the PSD and CDS, in an authentic outline to the incomes of workers and the people. This proposal also makes it possible to alleviate the costs of households with respect to housing expenses, in a framework of the absence of direct State intervention in housing policies by pushing families for indebtedness and for the acquisition of their own house. We propose that families with incomes prior to 1990 may deduct them in IRS — it makes any sense so — as other families today can deduct expenses with housing in the IRS, this in a framework where the maximum income value in this transitional period can reach 1 / 15 of the property's capital value, which meant a substantial increase in the income value. To respond to the thousands of families now residing in precarious areas and degraded housing without living conditions and without dignity, the CFP is proposing to create a multi-annual resettlement programme in which the State assumes its responsibilities in guaranteeing the right to housing, in this case, through the relocation of these residents. Access to adequate and adequate housing, taking into account the size of the family aggregate, unfortunately, is far from being a reality and the government must take responsibility here and comply with this constitutional right. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u262	Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u263	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We shall vote today on the increase in the steps and the descent of the IRS. So let us vote today on the reversal of the brutal increase in taxes that PSD and CDS have made for families and workers in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] If there were no more, only that would make this Budget a fairer budget. But we want to go further, we want to ask for a small contribution to companies that have the most profits in this country, we want the inclusion of the IRS, because only the inclusion ensures that everyone pays according to their possibilities in all incomes they receive, and we want a lower IMI for families who have their own and permanent housing. All of these are measures that increase tax justice in Portugal. This is not the PSD position, nor the CDS position ; these are not their priorities. The PSD and CDS believe that the decrease in the IRS rate on labour income is to protect customers, and what do they propose in this Budget? They want to lower the profits of companies; they want to lower the tax on capital instruments, financial instruments; they want again the tax exemption for profits up to 10 000 € from the sale of social equity; they want to remove the tax on luxury wealth and to facilitate tax planning with changes to the SGPS regime ( companies managing social equity ). Who's protecting customers, ladies and gentlemen? Ladies and gentlemen? [[Congratulations from BE.]] They want, and to end, favourable rates of IRS for 10 years to promote the return of migrants. Mrs. Members, emigrants are returning, but it is not because there are favourable rates of IRS for immigrants, it is because there is now work and taxes are lower for all workers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u264	Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade has the floor. Mr. Fernando Rocha Andrade ( PS ). — Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Download the tax burden, lower taxes, it is always a worthy idea that always faces the difficulty that it is also necessary to pay public expenditure with taxes. So we have to be selective in those taxes that we choose to lower and in the way we choose to lower them. It is customary to hear here, on the right side of the Hemicycle, the idea that the budgets presented by this government are ideological. And they are! Because it is precisely in the ideological option what taxes are and what tax reductions we should opt for. in the past of this government was first the reduction of overtax, then its total elimination and now also the reduction of rates. Yes, Mr. Duarte Pacheco, fee reduction, because when you create a new step, dividing the current second, with a lower rate we are reducing the rate and now we are increasing the progressiveity, because... [[P.S. and BE's applause.]] ... we are reducing the rate that pays the taxable income from 7000 to 10 000 €, which is lower compared to the rate borne above. This is the very definition of progressiveity.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u265	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u266	We lower the rate and increase the progressiveity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And we also do something absolutely fundamental, which is the updating and indexing of the minimum of existence, which is also extended in its scope. These have been, and are, our options. What are the options for tax reductions contained in the proposed amendments? The reduction in the rate of IRC, exemptions for the taxation of capital gains, the reduction in the taxation of capital incomes, and now also the need to address the very dangerous tax that affects these middle class people, those couples with a real estate worth more than EUR 1 million and 200 thousand. Yes, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget is ideological, the proposals are ideological, and in these proposals, in ours and in yours, we see this difference. [[P.S. and BE's applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u267	Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, Antonio Mendonça Mendes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u268	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government here presents in the State budget a proposal on family tax to comply with what is the constitutional principle of increasing the progressiveity of the IRS. And we do it, as we have already repeated, through the unfoldment of one step in two. And this decoupling in two steps means that not only does the marginal rate fall for certain incomes, but also the average tax rate falls for all incomes up to €40 000. And we managed to do this with fiscal neutrality from the point of view of what income was above €40000, that is, there is no class of income that has an increase in taxes. Our option was clear, our option was to reduce taxes on families, particularly households with average and medium/low incomes. But we also sought to protect what families are that have less income. And this protection is made through the minimum of existence, ensuring that all taxable persons have, at the end of the tax settlement, a guaranteed minimum of net income. This minimum of existence has, in this proposal of State Budget, an update, but, more than an update, has an indexing to the indexer of social support. This is of the greatest importance because, unlike what had been the reform of the IRS in 2014, which had stipulated a value and that had never updated that value, what we do is precisely a formula, which will be updated every year as the IAS is being updated. For this reason, from next year onwards, the minimum existence increases from €8500 to €8980, covering much more people who have zero collection or who have lower incomes. But we do more. Those who in recent weeks speak both of the green receipts and of the self-employed are unable here to recognize that for the first time, the minimum of existence is extended to self-employed workers, who did not have it before because it was an exclusive protection of dependent workers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We know where we want to make the deductions and that is why we did not return to the conversation of the family coefficient, which only benefited some families. But we look at families, particularly those who have children to study outside and who, having children studying outside their home area, have a considerable expense, which is considerable, with the accommodation of these students. That is why we have created a new possibility for deductions in education expenditure to be deducted from expenses for the accommodation of displaced students, thus providing very significant support to families. Is that an option? Yeah, that's an option. But it is an option that is contrary to the one that the right has, wanting to keep the educational valleys, that the only thing that they do is the replacement of income and the non-taxation of that same income. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This is also a Budget of choices because we want to promote smoother mobility. That is why we have a legislative authorization so that we can have more deductions to the collection with the acquisition of mobility services in bikesharing and carsharing, precisely taking into account our more sustainable future. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let me refer to the simplified regime, which has already been brought here by the right-wing benches and which has gone through this whole budget debate, and on which I want to mention three essential points. First of all, the simplified scheme is dated, it is a 2001 scheme, which gave rise to the fundamental concern of bringing income to the formal economy which was not in the formal economy. This was the first major objective in 2001 when the simplified regime was introduced. at that time, the legislator admitted that he had no means to know precisely what was the cost for the formation of the income of the very varied activities that existed at the level of self-employed. Therefore, in 2001, the coefficients for assuming expenditure were established but at the same time it was said that technical-scientific basic indicators should be worked that would allow the cost of activities to be measured. These technical-scientific basic indicators have never been defined and that is why over time the coefficients have also been adjusted without any criteria. The last adjustment that was made to the coefficients of the simplified scheme was precisely in 2014, creating a new coefficient for a category that should be residual, which is the category of « other », where it was not even necessary to indicate the EAC ( Portuguese Classification of Economic Activities ), simply saying that it was not recognised in any of the activities of the table, rather than being taxed by 75 %, to be taxed only by 35 %. This was done precisely in 2014. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what we want with the proposal here is to respect simplification but also respect what is true taxation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u269	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u270	I repeat, we want to respect simplification, but we also want to respect what is tax truth. We must therefore take advantage of the information systems of the tax system, in which the country has invested so much, which enables us, easily, with automation, with simplicity, before the citizens, to have access not to what is a presumed expenditure but to what can be real expenditure. Thus, with the initial proposal and with the proposals currently under discussion and vote in Parliament, we have sought to respond to what were the normal and legitimate doubts of the ladies and gentlemen. Members and in many sectors of society and we have properly densified what is considered expenditure related to the expenditure of the activity and we have also placed the possibility of non-exclusive allocation of such expenditure, because many are expenses that are not exclusively of the activity but are also expenses related to personal life, especially those working at home. We have also taken note of the local accommodation, which was placed in the coefficient of 65 %, because we know what is the impact of the property, what it represents precisely for these activities. Therefore, we have created a simple and automatic way of calculating, by the Tax Authority, of what is the value imputable to the cost of the property, precisely from the value of the tax assets, without this being any bureaucracy or complexification of the taxpayer's relationship with the tax. We also had attention not to do what the right repeatedly said we wanted to do, an increase in taxes on green receipts. That's not true. We do not want to raise taxes on green receipts and that is why we introduced the specific deduction and, in addition, we introduced the possibility of deduction of the social contributions that independent workers now bear alone and which, with this proposal, can start to charge as expenditure, when so far they could only discount what was 10 % above income. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yes, sir. Members, and we have also set standards against abuse, precisely to end the one that was an incentive regime to remain in residual categories such as 'other' to benefit from greater tax benefit. Dear Mrs. Members, what we are doing is a request for justification for part of the expenditure, a justification for part of the expenditure with a specific deduction and social contributions. Mrs. Members, I conclude by saying that this measure does not in any way affect people with low and medium incomes nor does it allow the richest service providers to manipulate the system that exists. The simplified regime is to simplify, it is a tax technique, it is not a tax benefit and, therefore, with the proposal that is currently under discussion no one who earns less than 2300 € is affected and who really has to justify expenses are those who, by earning more than 100 000 €, have chosen to have no organised accounting. With this proposal we have implemented two principles: firstly, the principle of simplification and, secondly, the principle of fiscal truth, which is important because that is what allows us to have a fairer system. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u271	Mrs. Members, let us turn to the proposal for an addendum to Article 162. the -A - Plan to submit the prescription of the overtax of IRS, initiative of the PSD. Mrs Helga Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u272	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Dependency supplement is a cash benefit of the highest relevance to pensioners in case of obvious need, so this benefit must be exempt from IRS, under the penalty of the effectiveness of the benefit being compromised. Whereas the beneficiaries of this benefit, pensioners or non- pensioners, resort to it because they are in a situation of dependency or high dependence, who are persons who, by accident, are in a situation of permanent incapacity for work, as well as for the basic needs of daily life, who are people who need the support of third parties to perform tasks such as locomotives, food or personal hygiene, exempting the supplement due to the dependence of the IRS tax is to adopt a measure of greater relevance and greater social justice for these people who are effectively in a great physical and psychological fragility. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u273	Mrs. Members, proposal 640 - C, submitted by the PS, to add an article 162. the -A will be discussed in the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization ( COFMA ), so we turn to Article 164. o — Amendment to the Tax Code on the Income of Collective Persons. To begin the debate, Mr António Leitão Amaro, of the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u274	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: under this article, I want to speak of a proposal for an amendment by the Socialist Party on the DTA regime ( deferred tax assets ), i.e. the tax treatment of losses accumulated by banks. I admit that the Socialist Party has submitted this proposal at the request of the Government, I can only imagine something else. This proposal, which has an involvement of billions of euros, should have been presented, explained, assessed, transparently, to Parliament and to the country and not to enter the last hour without explanation, without measurement, through a parliamentary group. We are concerned, yes, because what we interpret, of the Socialist Party's proposal, is that it is intended to give banks more time to deduct their losses, i.e. to allow some covered banks to pay, in the course of time, much less taxes, on the other hand, making something that we also think is wrong, which is the anticipation, by the government, of a little more short-term revenue to lose much more revenues in the long term. We have seen this last year with the asset revaluation programme. The PCP and the Left Block at the time closed their eyes, we warned — « attention that you are sacrificing taxpayers in the long term to receive a little bit more now and are giving a tax bill to a small group of very large companies» — you said no and then regretted when UTAO made the accounts and realized that it was 220 million euros of tax benefit, tax credit, to these companies. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, without any explanation, with the interpretation we make here, it seems to us that what happens in this case is the same, with an additional problem: in this case, not only do taxpayers are harming themselves, in general, to benefit some banks, as is also making an unacceptable distortion of competition, because they give a great benefit and forgiveness to a group of banks while others are being harmed — it is your option and incomprehensible discrimination — and, above all, they give some banks a period of almost 20 years to deduct their losses, when, two years ago, they have reduced that period to 5 years for all other companies. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, there are many doubts here, many concerns, many billions of euros of potential loss to taxpayers — it is admitted — with this pardon that seems to be here for the banks and that the government and, I assume, the left parties want to do,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u275	It's the opposite! I'm sorry you created him!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u276	... and what we need, first of all, is transparency, explanation, impact assessment. Why do you want to benefit the banks? Oh, my God! If they say they have stabilized the financial system, why do additional measures are necessary to benefit banks and their capital? Oh, my God! Why and why at the cost of taxpayers? Oh, my God! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u277	Mr Pedro Mota Soares of the CDS-PP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u278	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: With regard to this article, which has to do with IRC, we want to talk about some of the concerns of this Budget. And it is absent from the concerns of this Budget the dynamisation of the economy, support for investment and support for businesses, which are those who create wealth and who generate jobs. And it's not just us on this bench who say it! Listen to what the representatives of companies, employers, the Economic and Social Council say that this budget is a huge disappointment for companies. And this is precisely seen in the slowing down of economic growth, the slowing down of exports, the slowing down of investment itself. Therefore the CDS, in this specific area, presents ten proposals focused on the growth of the economy. These are proposals ranging from the elimination of the increase, which this Government has made, of the fuel tax, to the reduction of the limit itself of the special payment on account, to the encouragement, through tax benefits, of reinvestment of profits in companies themselves, etc. But, above all, I wanted to talk about two proposals on IRC, which have to do with an effective increase in investment, the first of which is to resume the fall in the IRC rate, which has a positive effect on the increase in investment. We saw that in 2014 the investment grew by 2, 3 % with a proposal like this ; in 2015, it grew by 5, 8 %; and in 2016, the year when the Socialist Party's committee of wises said that the investment growth would be 7, 8 %, the year in which the State budget forecast a growth of 4, 8 %, after all, there was an investment growth of only 1, 6 %. For this reason, we realize that investment needs stability, needs predictability and effectively needs fiscal support, which is what this government is not giving. And in those years, we have even found that it is possible to download the IRC without a fall in revenue. Therefore, we are completely contrary to that Manician vision that, in order to download the IRS, it is necessary to increase the IRC because it has already been proven that this is not true. The second very important proposal is a proposal to allow a tax supercredit throughout 2018. This proposal was also proven, with very positive effects, in 2013. In 2013 we were able to leverage EUR 2500 million of investment by more than 15 000 companies, above all small and medium-sized exporting companies, on the basis of the marketable sectors, and in this sense there has been huge investment growth. This is also what we want to do in this State budget, namely to help those who create wealth, who generate jobs, to help the productive sectors of our economy, so that we have a growing economy, not an economy to be slowed down, as is expected in this State budget. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u279	Mr Joel Sá, from the PSD, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u280	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This proposal for the State Budget for 2018 disregards companies and their role in the future of the country. Criticism is widespread by all business associations and by most analysts, the most common phrase being that « this State budget has nothing for companies ». Unfortunately, judging by the statements made by the CFP and the Bloc — government partners — there will indeed be something for companies in this State budget, but it will be the increase in taxes that they will bear. Mrs. Members, there are only workers and better wages if there are good businesses and with good productive capacity. Exporting companies make a fundamental contribution to the Portuguese economy in terms of value added and employment. at present, there is no tax incentive to increase the export capacity of companies,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u281	It's illegal!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u282	... situation that is corrected with our proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u283	Correct, correct! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u284	The PSD therefore proposes an amendment to Article 164. the proposal for a law, which is consistent with the addition of Article 87 ( 8 ). the IRC Code, with the following content : « in the case of taxable persons with turnover up to EUR 2 million...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u285	It's illegal!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u286	... and an export volume of more than 50 % of the total turnover, the IRC rate applicable to the taxable amount shall be 17 %’. This is our proposal and we count on your support, as Portuguese companies do. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u287	That measure is illegal!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u288	You also have the floor for the PSD, Mr António Costa Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u289	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: We want to see if the PS has the courage to sham the PSD proposal, amending Article 164. o. We want to see if the PS ( I no longer say the remaining « management », because we know its history ) has the courage to chum this PSD proposal, which aims to reduce the tax burden on exporting companies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u290	That's illegal!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u291	We've got, we've got!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u292	The government and the parties that support it are the biggest enemies of companies. You're only interested in taxes! In everything that moves, in everything that is private initiative, get out! Get out and want to get out more! Then comes your confident talk of support for companies and internationalisation, but measures in particular, nothing! The only incentives that exist for the internationalisation of companies are those that are registered in the Community funds, negotiated by the previous government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u293	How does this speech fit the reduction of the special payment on its own? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u294	Still, you are a threat to the implementation of these funds as far as business is concerned. See Government announcements concerning the reprogramming of Portugal 2020. It is precisely the area of competitiveness and the most sacrificed internationalisation, where they will withdraw money precisely to pay the expenses of the Public Administration. Therefore, companies, especially smaller and exportable companies, expect tax incentives from the Government, such as those presented by the PSD. We count on your support. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u295	To use the floor on behalf of the Government, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Finance, Mr. Mourinho Félix. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u296	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the Socialist Party's proposal for an amendment to the IRC, I believe that the proposals which come here, regardless of whether they come from the Government or from the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, they are all of the same value and, therefore, I do not want to comment on the start of Mr Antonio Leitão Amaro's speech. with regard to the DTAs, with due respect, Mr, I do not think you have understood exactly what is at stake here. There are two types of DTAs, eligible ones and non-eligible ones. Eligible DTAs have been established by the regime under the previous government and do not have time to use them can be used forever.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u297	Oh, yeah? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u298	Who made that up? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u299	And what is meant is that these DTAs, which today can be used immediately or over the next 100 years, are disciplined. Why? Because this leads to a tremendous lack of predictability regarding tax revenue. So what we are introducing here is a regime that governs the use of eligible DTAs, which today are about EUR 5000 million.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u300	Who created it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u301	Was it the previous government that created this? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u302	It is EUR 5000 million of eligible DTAs that can be used in any of the coming years and that will affect the predictability of the tax revenue of many Budgets in the coming years. Thus, what we have introduced here is discipline and discipline that allows these DTAs to be used—is a right that exists, is part of what is the assets of the banks, contributes to their capital and has a very important role— limiting their use, so that they can be deducted over a very long period of time, with an annual limit, while preserving financial stability. Anything other than this would entail capital losses to banks and a return to the discussion on bank capitalisation levels. That is what this proposal is about. The proposal has nothing ideological and, therefore, it is not here, I presume, of a left and right discussion,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u303	So much so that the PCP and the Block will vote in favour!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u304	... this is a discussion of financial stability. It is a good thing that the country needs, that the country needs, that companies need for investment and, therefore, following what Mr Pedro Mota Soares has said, let me tell you that this is a proposal that benefits the financing of companies. in the same way, the inclusion of the pre-guarantee scheme benefits the financing of companies, because we well know that today many companies, for investments, for export and for services abroad, need bank guarantees. It is therefore important that the bank, in order to be able to grant such bank guarantees, have an appropriate regime, allowing losses in bank guarantees to be recorded. Let me tell you that there is no blessing or tax forgiveness here, which is a discipline for the use of the DTAs, a discipline that certainly benefits the economy. The financial system is not particularly benefited by this scheme, because, as I said, the DTA regime allows them to be used at all times. These DTAs are special, there are today in the banks but any company can join, however, it is in the banks that this regime has a very important role. Let me tell you, to conclude, that these DTAs are, in fact, very important and, as I have had the opportunity to explain publicly, have a particularly relevant impact on some banks in our system. Therefore, what I ask is that you understand the need and importance of this proposal and understand it as something that will benefit all those who have government and budgetary responsibilities, facilitating budgetary management over the next few decades. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u305	Mrs. Members, we come to the appreciation of the proposal 149 - C1, submitted by the Members of the PSD Paulo Neves, Rubina Berardo and Sara Madruga da Costa, in the part where it adds to the bill an article 164. o -A — Addition to the Tax Code on the Income of Collective Persons. Mr. José Carlos Barros, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u306	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD proposal aims at encouraging actions to clean up, prevent and manage forests, in a path of effective remuneration for services provided by forest externalities, and at the level of fiscally deductible provisions, it does not do more than equate forestry companies to, for example, companies in the extractive industries, in this case where specific environmental repairs are concerned. in an area where theoretical consensus is frequent, we have witnessed more announcements and manifestations of principle than practical achievements and this is a proposal with an effective positive impact on the ground, encouraging cleaning actions, forest management and, in general terms, defense of forest against fires. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u307	In the context of this debate, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr Secretary of State for Tax Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u308	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to IRC and what we have heard here, I would like to talk about the lack of support for companies, allowing me to object precisely to this idea. at this time, both in terms of consumers and in terms of the economic climate, we have confidence at maximum levels and, on the other hand, the context in which we present this Budget is a context with the highest investment volume in recent years. Therefore, to say that this government and this State budget are not business friends is false. And it is also false because it is not true that this government and this majority have not taken any action at the IRC level. I recall that even last year, and is in force, a special IRC for businesses in the interior, allowing the first €15 000 to be taxed at a rate of 12, 5 %. in this State budget we also look at companies. We have a clear choice of tax relief at the income tax level on families, as we have said and as we assumed, but we also look at companies, particularly with the Capitalisation Programme. It is only to look at the State budget to see that there is precisely the option to support companies that need capitalisation, because this is one of the problems the economy has. It is that the lack of capitalisation of our companies does not allow them to then have money to invest and produce wealth. That is why there are three important measures at the level of Capitalisation. First of all, the tax benefit or tax credit, which is given to members, natural persons, which capitalise on companies and companies in the situation of Article 35. that of the Code of Commercial Societies, i.e. that are with negative own capitals. Secondly, and contrary to what has already been said, this State budget, and also the proposals that are for consideration in the specialty, has an incentive for reinvestment of profits from companies, their non-distribution and, rather, their reinvestment, the reinvestment of profits in the year itself. Thirdly, in the conventional remuneration of social capital, this is a Budget in which the conventional remuneration scheme of social capital for supplies, already approved last year, is extended to credit to third parties, allowing creditors of societies to have an incentive to integrate social capital. Therefore, to say that in the IRC chapter, this budget is not a friend of companies and the economy is false and what we have come from the right or are proposals that flagrantly and grossly violate competition laws and state aid or are only low-tax measures, not being constructive measures such as these selective measures that we propose to support corporate capitalisation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u309	following the previously stated understanding, Article 167. o — Transitional rules under the Code of the Income Tax for Collective Persons will be discussed at the COFMA meeting, so we will proceed to the addition of Article 167. o -A— IRC-based support measures for companies affected by the 2017 fires, proposed by the PSD. Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u310	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is clear today that the government has failed to respond to forest fires in 2017. But now it is time to support people, support businesses, and that is why the PSD has tabled a set of proposals for amendments to the budget. First, the PSD proposes the exemption of IMI for the years 2017 and 2018 for buildings destroyed or severely damaged by fires. It would not be understood that the State, after having failed in a round manner in prevention, combat and relief, would now ask these victims to liquidate the IMI. Similarly, the PSD proposes that the taxable persons of IRC who have suffered a destruction of their fixed assets in a proportion greater than 25 % of the total assets shall be exempt from the special payment on account and from the payment on account in the first half of 2018. It would not be acceptable to require companies to lose their assets that they now have to use the bank to, instead of using that money for their recovery, pay taxes. The PSD also wants to support forest producers who have suffered severe damage as a result of forest fires. These producers will not only now have to sell burnt wood for a much lower value than those that would be able to sell under normal conditions, as in the coming years they will be deprived of the sale of wood, which in many cases burned altogether. For these reasons, the PSD submitted a proposal to exempt, for two years, from IRS, the revenue from the sale of burning wood, with a reasonable limit of €50 000. After the tragedy that has struck the victims of fires, this Parliament now has the opportunity to support the victims, minimize their losses and help to rebuild their lives. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u311	In this regard, Mr Fernando Anastácio has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u312	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to Article 167. the, we are all imbued, and I think that Portuguese society in general too, of great concern to respond to the problems of victims of the tragedy of the summer fires. Especially today, in the context of budgetary effort, we are also trying to find answers to this. Reading the CDS proposal regarding Article 167. that of the bill, particularly in the part in which the CDS proposes that companies that have suffered losses from fires be exempted from payment on account in 2018, I ask whether the CDS is seeking to exempt companies such as Altice, Vodafone, NOS, EDP, Portucel, in 2018, from this great national effort. Does the CDS mean that these companies in 2018 do not have to contribute with their IRC to the national fire recovery effort? [[P.S.'s applause.]] For the CDS, are these companies victims of fires? That's the question I'm giving you, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u313	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as I know, I didn't give the floor to everyone at the same time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u314	Can't you move away any more? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u315	They're away from the sauces!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u316	You have the floor for one speech, Mr State Secretary for Tax Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u317	Mr President, Mrs Margarida Balsairo, I have listened carefully and we have also read carefully the proposal presented by the PSD, but let me stress what has been done by the government, particularly in the tax area. We approved a diploma, which was published, with the exception of an error last week, in which tax executions in relation to taxpayers' debts are suspended, if the deadline for fulfilling the tax obligations is extended and, in relation to the payment of taxes, the deadline is extended, because they are taxed due because they are determined according to a previous period. We have done so and the diploma is already published in the Journal of the Republic. On two points which the PSD raises, I would like to say that one of them has already been treated in the legislation in force and the other, and that is also not the matter of the Assembly of the Republic. That is to say, I can agree with the honourable Member on IMI, but what we have defined today is that, with regard to revenue from municipal taxes, decisions must be within the competence of the person who collects this revenue. The amendment of the local finance law allowed the municipal assemblies to decide on these same exemptions from IMI and I am convinced that, if not all, many of the authorities on which, unfortunately, the tragedy has been dropped will decide in this direction. However, as I say, this is a decision which should not be imposed by the Assembly of the Republic, but rather a decision which is under the autonomy of the democratic local power. Secondly, as regards the sale of wood, I wanted to point out that there is a regime, which has already been approved in the previous legislation, which allows the value of the sale of wood in one year to be divided by 12, applying the rate of IRS corresponding to this division and paying for a much lower tax base. In fact, this State Budget precisely extends this possibility, which already existed, also to isolated acts, precisely because we are aware that there are many situations of tragedy involving people who did not do this their business and who, being able to have an isolated act selling the wood that is burned, can also benefit from the legal regime that already exists. Therefore, Member of Parliament, I would say to you that the measures which the PSD has set out here or are within the competence of the municipal assemblies or are already in the legal system. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u318	We are now discussing the proposal for an addendum to Article 171. o -A — Addendum to List I annexed to the Value Added Tax Code, submitted by The Greens. You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u319	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Specifically, the Greens are proposing here that the rate of VAT on bicycles be increased from 23 % to 13 % because we consider this to be an incentive for the purchase and use of bicycles, in a logic of incentive for soft mobility as an alternative method of transport.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u320	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u321	It's nothing new for the ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Greens' commitment to promoting alternative mobility, and by alternative and sustainable mobility, we understand soft mobility as well as collective mobility. We therefore also make an effort and have a great commitment in the area of collective transport, so that, in this State budget, we also commit ourselves to betting on rail, in particular on the acquisition and modernisation of rolling stock. In the context of the Greens' intervention on the promotion of transport use, we also put forward a proposal on the 4/NP 18 without a condition of appeal to encourage the use of collective transport by our young people. We look forward to the commitment of all the banks to the adoption of these proposals, in particular on the reduction of VAT for the purchase of bicycles, giving the Assembly of the Republic a concrete signal regarding the need for alternative forms of transport and precisely to motivate these alternative forms of transport.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-23.u322	It is now up to the Bureau to announce that Article 180. o — Amendment to the Code of Special Consumption Taxes, as provided for in Article 189. o — Amendment to the Code of Taxes on Vehicles comes into discussion at the COFMA meeting, although yesterday the vote on proposal 308 - C of the PSD on the addition of Article 68 has been postponed. o -A— Extinction of public-private partnerships in the municipal sector. Since there are no entries to intervene under this topic, the register remains established. We are thus at the end of today's work. It is also necessary to announce that the next meeting will take place tomorrow, 24 a.m. at 10 a.m. and that the agenda will continue the debate, in the specialty, of Bill No 100 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the State budget for 2018. The rules and proposals for amendments referred to the plenary will be discussed, then the vote will be taken, and then we will continue the debate, in particular, on the proposal for a law, for which each parliamentary group will have the total amount of time taken from that which has been used today. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 53 minutes.]]
