ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start our session. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. Before we get on the agenda, I ask Secretary Duarte Pacheco to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau, and the following proposals have been admitted: No 57 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Sets minimum requirements for the protection of workers against the risks to safety and health to which they are or may be subject due to exposure to electromagnetic fields during work and transposes Directive 2013 / 35 / EU, of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 which falls to 10. the Commission; points 58 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — establishes the principles and rules of cross-border exchange of information relating to the practice of road offences in a Member State and transposes Directive 2015 / 413 / EU, which falls to 1. the Commission ; and paragraphs 59 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — adapts to the domestic legal system the obligations arising from Decision 2008 / 615 / JHA and Decision 2008 / 616 / JHA which executes it as the data transmission of the registration of vehicles for the purposes of detection and investigation of criminal offences, which is lower than 1. the Commission. Draft resolution No 642 / XIII was also introduced ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake urgent rehabilitation and requalification of the secondary school Ferreira Dias, Agualva-Sintra ( CDS-PP ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u3	Mrs. Members, let us then begin our agenda, the first of which consists in the general discussion of Bill No 46 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Change the exercise of trade union freedom and the rights of collective bargaining and participation of public security police personnel with police duties. To introduce the debate, you have the floor of the Minister of Internal Administration, who is fulfilling, also addressing the other members of the Government present. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are going to discuss a bill that aims, above all, to amend the 2002 union law of the Public Security Police. The majority of the articles aim only to adapt the wording of the provisions of that law to the terminology evolution meanwhile introduced by a number of diplomas, including the status of the PSP and the law of work in public functions. The main objective of this proposal is to review the system of enjoyment of trade unions, introducing here—and I repeat—the same model of representativeness of the law of work in public functions, which is enshrined not only for the other employees of the civil service, but also for the workers of the private sector, including with regard to legitimacy for collective bargaining. In other words, the criteria of representativeness that condition the enjoyment of these shortcomings are precisely the same. however, the numbers do not change, i.e. the union leaders continue to enjoy four days of unpaid wages per month — 48 days per year — to which they add 33 days of justified misconduct, which are the same established for the rest of the public service. Trade union delegates continue to enjoy the same 12 hours a month of paid misconduct. However, the enjoyment of these rights is subject to the same criteria of representativeness that apply to other civil service workers. I recall that today, in the light of existing law, the enjoyment of these rights has no limitation on the basis of representativeness, which leads to varying constraints. From then on, the constant change of service scales, of about 9000 per month, which affects not only the police, but also the entire activity of the PSP. Today, we have about 14 police unions enjoying credits for trade union failures and also unremunerated justified shortcomings. We have unions with just over 110 members, where more than 95 are union leaders or union delegates to enjoy, respectively, 48 days of paid leave per year and 20 days of paid leave per month. Only in 2015 were they absent from the service about 31 153 days, especially with special incidence on weekends, Fridays and Mondays. That is, every day about 85 police officers are absent for trade union activity—every day! — which amounts to 600 per week. Therefore, what is intended with this proposal is to introduce a criterion of representativeness equal to that which prevails for the generality of public service workers. As regards the famous article 3. the, has sought its densification, but I recognize that the proposed wording can lead to unwanted and unwanted interpretations. That's why I think you guys are. Members will be able to find the appropriate wording. Finally, as far as the transfer scheme is concerned, it is maintained that it is practically the same as it is enshrined in the law of work in public functions, with some differences. But I'm available for any review. This is a bill on which I think all of you are. Members, with all the sense of state, will be able to find the most appropriate formulations. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u5	Mr Jorge Machado, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam Minister, I begin by greeting the PSP professionals present in the galleries. As you know, Mrs Minister, there is no objection from the CFP to the substantive objectives announced here and poured into the diploma. However, the CFP considers that there is an imperative need to change the most serious aspects of the diploma, including Article 3. the, with regard to the statements of the leaders, Article 4. on the possibility of transfer of leaders, Article 7. the, which refers to incompatibilities, and Article 18. the, as regards the hourly credits of trade union delegates. For the CFP, it is essential to correct these aspects, so I ask what is the government's willingness to correct them. If that same availability exists, we have already stated that we will propose the hearing of all the representative structures of the workers. We will move forward to this legislative process with the deep conviction that it is not only possible to correct the worst aspects, but also possible, including improving the diploma and thus improving the conditions for trade union activity in the PSP. Mr Minister, the question I would like to leave to you is the following: what is the government's availability for this purpose? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u7	To reply, you have the floor of the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u8	Mr. Deputies, the availability is total. [[PSD laughter.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u9	This is a concrete answer to a concrete question. Mr Carlos Peixoto of the PSD Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u10	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members: I also begin by congratulating PSP professionals in the galleries. I would like to begin by telling the Minister that this bill shows, in all its splendor, the fragility of this government. The longer it takes, the more proof is that the Government and the Socialist Party do not understand the sacrosanct left-wing majority, who promised the country a stable, lasting and unsurpassed governance. This was the case with the TSU, it could become so with the PPPs of health, it could become so in the regulations of Carris, it could be so in the regulations of the Uber, and it is certainly so in this union law. The PS and the government in this area have not linked any of their coalition partners, they have not heard them. And apparently, neither did you call the unions, because, Madam Minister, there is no union that unequivocally agrees, from the beginning to the end, with this law. Perhaps because of this and other things, Minister, your government leader must be swallowing what you said here in this Parliament last Friday, i.e. that the PSD does not serve anything for the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u11	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u12	These were his words. Mrs. Minister, it took four days to see that the PSD serves, and it serves for a lot. Look, of course, it is for you to be asked to support the differences between the Socialist Party and the Government with the coalition parties. But it also serves, because it is absolutely essential, for the voting of laws with the enhanced value it has, which needs two-thirds of the vote in favour of the Members. Mr. Minister, these are cases where it is not the PS or the Government that needs the PSD, but it is the Constitution that says that you cannot move on these matters without the vote of the PSD. Therefore, Mrs. Minister, in areas of sovereignty, in areas of state, in areas of security, the PSD traditionally votes next to the PS. Mr. Filipe Neto Brandão says I did not speak in the Socialist Party. True, the Socialist Party and the PSD together perfect the two thirds, which means that, in these matters, they have been together throughout history. in the last 10 or 15 years, only twice had it not been so, and for perfectly justified reasons, but nevertheless, Mr Minister, neither was the Government able to be politically predictable, to respect tradition, to respect the Constitution and to respect the greater party to the opposition. Here is a demonstration of courage that sometimes results in bad results. Still, the PSD is a responsible party, it is a security party, it is a party that believes that collective bargaining is a priority. This proposal obviously has positive aspects, we do not deny it — introduce some equity into the system, seek to correct situations marked as perverse and penalizing the operational activity of the police. But that's not enough, Minister. PSD does not pass blank checks to anyone. So there are three red lines that you want, from now on, here to be expressed and bound. First of all, the already known « roll law », Article 3, shall apply. this bill, because it contains unacceptable restrictions to the exercise of trade union activity. Secondly, it will ask the Government to clarify precisely the rules of participation in collective bargaining, in particular those of Article 31. the, which raise doubts of constitutionality and open the door for the existence, in our mistaken view, of unions of first and second trade unions. Thirdly, and perhaps most importantly, the PSD is already available here to participate in a negotiation that has as a priority to equalize and revisit trade union activity as a whole, globally, not only of the PSP, but in a comprehensive way, because it believes that there is no reason to understand that only in this matter is that it is necessary to revisit this regime. Mr Minister, these are the parameters that the PSD defines and hopes that they will be accepted, because only then will it feel able to form its sense of vote, and a sense of final vote. But this is not because the government deserves, Mrs Minister, it is because the police and the country need it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u13	For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Cunha of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u14	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members: First of all, I also want to greet the police present in the galleries and I want to start by remembering that union freedom is a constitutionally enshrined right. Article 55 may be read. the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic : « Workers are recognized for their union freedom, condition and guarantee of the construction of their unity to defend their rights and interests ». Article 56 may also be read in the following article. o « It is up to trade union associations to defend and promote the rights and interests of workers who represent ». [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u15	This can only happen if all the conditions necessary for the exercise of this representation are guaranteed. The Left Block considers, despite the need for this law to be revised, that the proposal presented by the Government today, and which aims, precisely, to regulate the exercise of the union freedom of public security police personnel, does not effectively meet these conditions. We are concerned first of all with the wording given in Article 3. this proposal, in particular when “declarations that violate the principles of the command and discipline hierarchy” are prohibited and also “information on devices and planning, implementation, means and equipment used in police operations”. Indeed, we believe that this wording limits what is much of the essence of trade union activity and affects the freedom of expression of trade unionized elements. Secondly, we believe that the proposal to amend the ban on the transfer of the place of work to an organ or service outside the locality distorts the legitimacy of representation of that element within that very service of that specific place of work. Thirdly, and although it is not an amendment made with this proposal from the Government, but rather an imperative arising from the law in force, it is our understanding that the right of affiliation and active participation in union associations to police in effective service is not to be restricted since this limitation excludes several professionals who are not in effective service in the PSP, however, from being police professionals. The most serious example is in the situation of the suspended police. We believe that this exclusion can limit the freedom of trade union action, since the parallel consequence of a process culminating in the suspension of service is precisely the impossibility of continuing the exercise of trade union activity. Also present in the law in force, and maintained in the drafting now proposed by the Government, is the limitation to three shortcomings for members of the general assemblies, congresses or equivalent bodies. In addition to the constituent assemblies and the assemblies for amendments to the statutes, it is also necessary to carry out, for the organization and management of these trade unions, other assemblies, such as those necessary for the provision of accounts or for the presentation of the budget, that is not to mention extraordinary assemblies. We therefore believe that this is also material to be worked out. The subject which also deserves attention is the proposed amendment to the definition of organic unit. by no longer considering the team for the purposes of defining the number of union delegates entitled to credit for hours, and by considering the territorial command, the presence of union delegates in the various workplaces is largely reduced. The situation may arise of having a union delegate in a command with several teams that are several kilometres away from each other, which obviously conditions the exercise of the union activity of that delegate. Finally, and since the time available here does not allow the in-depth discussion that a diploma of this importance deserves, we also highlight the amendment introduced in Article 34. that of the Government's proposal and which restricts collective bargaining to the assessment and negotiation between the Government and the trade unions, leaving out negotiation with the direct hierarchy. This amendment is not understood, since there are currently matters which are subject to collective bargaining, such as working hours, which are directly responsible for the PSP hierarchy. The Left Block considers that the amendment of diplomas whose object enshrines constitutionally enshrined rights deserves an in-depth debate and careful work that must always be done in partnership and in conjunction with the trade union associations themselves. The Left Block is available for this work. We hope that the government will also be. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[In the meantime, Vice-President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u16	For an intervention, Mrs Susana Amador has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u17	Mr President, Minister for Internal Administration, Mr and Mrs. Members: I also begin by welcoming the PSP professionals here. The bill currently under discussion in this House calls on all of us to adopt amendments to the exercise of trade union freedom and rights of collective bargaining and participation of PSP personnel with police functions. Indeed, the PSP is a police structure which carries out relevant functions to defend democratic legality, to guarantee internal security and the rights of citizens in accordance with Article 272. the Constitution. We, the Socialist Party, understand that security policy must always be based on a democratic culture. And there is no democratic security policy if its professionals do not see recognized essential democratic rights, without prejudice to the specific nature of their duties. That was always the understanding of the Socialist Party and its successive governments and therefore we were in the genesis of Law No. 14 / 2002, the existing law, arising from a proposal by the Government of then Prime Minister Antonio Guterres and who recognized here the union freedom for PSP professionals. And here we are returning again, in the House of Democracy, to this very important discussion, since the laws are not static, rather they are evolutionary, just like the system they aim to regulate. Yes, the PS had the courage to move in this law and make a proposal. The PSD had more than four years to do so and didn't. The existing reality, as the Minister has already pointed out, calls on us to make changes that respect this democratic culture but also safeguard the effectiveness and operationality of our public security system, which we want to be close to, prevent and combat crime. Mrs. Members, given the nature of the matter concerned, have covered the competent period of public assessment, which has allowed us to collect relevant contributions, both individual and also from the associations of the sector, those which should deserve our analysis and due consideration in the field of expertise in 1. the Commission. It is therefore with complete openness that we have this debate, knowing that this discussion is only the beginning of a path so that we can in fact have a balanced and just law as the Government and the Socialist Party intend. Above all, we want to adapt the collective law regime of staff with public functions of the PSP to the fundamental principles of the exercise of public functions. The proposal for a law also covers the list of Article 3. on the subject of restrictions on trade union freedom, which will surely be the subject of improvements, as has already been demonstrated, and clarification in the specialty, given that this is a special core which, because it is restrictions on trade union freedom, is of great sensitivity and does not intend to extend or expand and, therefore, we will clarify this issue. In turn, the system of defaults and allocation of hourly credits paid to union leaders and delegates is subject to amendments, considering that there is no fault until 33 errors per year, to which 44 days of unpaid remuneration are added. A limit that appears appropriate and balanced, even in the face of the good that is also intended to safeguard — the safety of citizens. In 2015, the shortcomings increased to more than 31 000, more than 5000 in 2014 and more than 10 000 in 2013. It should also be pointed out that the proposed law retains the right to a four-day claim per month, for the performance of its duties, to members of the management of the respective trade union association and to union delegates a 12-hour claim per month, a total of 144 hours a year, that the proposed law does not change. Criteria for proportionality for collective intervention and negotiation. Aware that these proposals lack the necessary and useful improvements and benefactors, both the Government and the Socialist Party are open to continue this discussion in order to dispel doubts and extend the degree of convergence that these constitutional matters also require.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u18	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u19	I'm done now, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the aim here is to ensure sustained and levelled evolution by the standards of organisation and exercise of trade union rights at European level that is compatible with an appropriate level of operationality and security provided to Portuguese. We are sure that Portugal will continue on this path, adopting just, proportionate and balanced solutions, reconciling trade union rights and freedom with the safety of citizens in a democratic society, never losing sight that a rule of law is also a state of foundation. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u20	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are discussing an amendment to the trade union law applicable to the PSP. And the first thing to remember when we discussed an amendment to that law is that it was done in 2002. And in 2002 the CDS and also the Social Democratic Party changed a historic position that they had, critical of the possibility of unions in the PSP, thus allowing trade unionism to exist. I am proud to have participated in this process and to have been one of the Members who have been in this process, at the time almost recently arrived here. And I'm proud of that why? Because we believe that police officers, PSP men, live situations of wear beyond the normal of workers, live situations of extremely difficult risk, struggle with lack of means, and trade unions are obviously a very important way to protect them when much of the public opinion, and sometimes even political opinion, leaves them completely in times of greatest difficulty. That's why we changed the law. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u22	A building was built, which is the union building. Looking now at this building, making a balance sheet of what was done a few years later, what do we conclude? That the building is perfect? Don't! There's trouble! And we recognize the existence of these problems. One of them will obviously be the proliferation of unions, their representativeness and the existence and difficulty, even of dialogue that this represents. Mrs. Minister, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the recognition that the building has problems is not right for us to lie down below, because what the government does with this proposal — it passes the style figure — is to recognize that the union building that has been built has some problems: it has a frinch, because of this frincche comes cold. Well, take your fire. And it burned the whole building, going what was right and what was wrong and obviously destroying the union freedom that can't, nor should it be destroyed. [[CDS-PP applause.]] And why do we say this? Madam Minister, of course, that in our view this proposal has a problem of content and has a problem of method. It has a problem of content which is evident, i.e. Article 3. the, for anyone who defends union freedom, is unacceptable, because the unions are right, Mrs. Minister : it is the law of roll. How can we know of the shortcomings, the difficulty of means, the difficulties that men have if they cannot talk about this matter and are always subordinate to hierarchy? It's unacceptable. The guarantee of irremovability for union leaders is fundamental and cannot and should not be mixed. Representativeness should be made and allowed, either from the union point of view or from the point of view of representativeness by class. There are a number of rules, such as the possibility of exercising other positions, which, as has been mentioned here — and well — by the Member of the Left Block, is fundamental. Therefore, this law attacks trade union freedom and, from this point of view, it is, in my view, unacceptable. But there is a very clear method problem. The CFP opened this debate and asked the Minister: "Look, this is not for us. Does the Minister change? » And the Minister said: « I change everything. Do whatever you want to do to me. It's okay. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” What I'm asking is whether they shouldn't have talked first, at least among the parties that support the government. Do you not think that it made sense for the Minister to arrive here with a proposal that had at least the agreement of the parties to'management'? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] This is no way of ruling, Minister. The Minister does not even have the support of the parties — perhaps not even her party! It is indisputable that, in a matter which requires a majority of 2 / 3 of the members in office effectiveness, they should speak with the greatest party of the opposition, because this is a matter of state. But he didn't talk. And, as far as you can see, you didn't talk to the unions either, because the unions point out simple ways to solve this matter: raising the degree of representativeness, building forms of association and encouragement to the federation. Question, Minister : have you spoken to the unions? Did you get them? Did you negotiate with them? Did you talk? Don't! Mr Minister, but how do you want to make a union law if you don't even hear the unions? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP applause.]] I don't understand. I honestly don't understand. Therefore, the Minister did not speak to the unions, nor to the big ones, nor to the small ones. Some of the little ones say that the law can even be advantageous to the big ones, but then we talk to the big ones and say they're also against them.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u23	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u24	I shall conclude by saying the following: there is no union that agrees with this law, and the leader of the largest police union said that — and I will quote — « this law must embarrass the left and the left parties». [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Carlos Abreu Amorim.]] Do you want to prevent a vote? Of course! We're not going to vote, because the result would be lead, as we already understand. This bill will be discussed in the specialty, but this will have to be in a completely different way. We will contribute, but it has to be in a completely different way, because this way does not serve. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u25	Mr Jorge Machado has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u26	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: Today we discuss an important diploma for the life and working conditions of PSP professionals. The exercise of trade union freedom within the PSP, which still bothers many people today, is a fundamental aspect for democracy and for improving the service provided to the people. We know that many of the working conditions of professionals, which are important to improve, are enshrined in diplomas, such as the professional status of the PSP. However, this diploma, which regulates the exercise of trade union freedom, is structural for the participation of professionals in the internal life of the PSP and, consequently, for the improvement of the living, working and functioning conditions of the institution itself. Admitting that there are problems with the amount of use of credits or dispensations of service for the union activity that causes embarrassment and that it is important to correct, we cannot fail to mention that what life has shown in these years of unionism in the PSP was its undeniable contribution to a more modern and trained PSP. in this context, it is fair to highlight the responsible and committed contribution of ASPP / PSP ( Trade Union Association of Police Professionals ), the union association with greater representativeness, whose action has dignified the union movement in the PSP. We understand that in this debate it is appropriate to pay tribute to those who, in the struggle for the right to trade unionism in the PSP, have participated in the famous struggle of "dry and wet" and it is appropriate to remember that Commissioners Santinhos, José Carreira and many others have given their lives to the cause of the freedom, democracy and dignity of PSP professionals. [[PCP applause.]] Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members, having no objection to the basic objectives of the diploma, however, there are aspects in this diploma that are unacceptable. The CFP does not accept that, at the time of the resolution of a problem—and this problem is resolved by laying down rules to ensure that trade union credits are proportionate to the number of trade union members—if this legislative process is used to condition or limit trade union activity within the PSP. For the CFP, it is not acceptable for the declarations of trade union leaders to be limited or conditioned. Article 3. The, as it is, cannot continue. PSP professionals who are in union functions may be limited in their party activity, but for the PCP it is unacceptable that they are limited in their political activity or conditioned by a alleged violation of the principle of hierarchy, command and discipline. Does anyone in this House know the figure of the political exemption, a figure that cannot be confused with party exemption? We don't know her. For us, it is essential to reformulate Article 4. the proposal of the law, which provides for the transfer of trade union leaders, ensuring that they cannot be removed from their jobs. Among others, Article 7. the, on incompatibilities, and Article 18. the, on credits of union delegates, needs changes to make it clear that it is not intended to harm trade union activity within the PSP. of the statements made by the Minister in this debate, we note as positive the openness expressed to change the diploma in its most harmful aspects in discussions in the field of expertise. on our part, as we stated in the first intervention, we went to this legislative process with the conviction that it is not only possible to correct the harmful aspects of this diploma, as it is also possible to improve it. And we will fight for unionism in the PSP to be strengthened, prestigious and the democratic culture within the PSP is raised. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u27	For one last speech on this item on the agenda, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u28	Mr. President and Mr. Members: With regard to Article 3. that of the bill, once again I recognize that its wording may have been unfortunate. As it may lead to unwanted and unloved interpretations, I am naturally willing to reformulate it. Mr Carlos Peixoto, Article 31. it is exactly the same as that which is in the General Law of Labour in Public Functions and which refers to the legitimacy for collective bargaining. The representativeness model, Mr Telmo Correia, is the same as it exists today for the generality of workers in public functions and is enshrined in the General Labour Act in Public Functions. Do this comparison work and you will see that the rules have not changed. By virtue of the Constitution, they could have a more limited exercise of their union freedom, but the option was precisely to give the same regime as the General Law on Public Works guarantees the other workers of the civil service. No more, no less. That's it, that's it. As for the question of method, I always thought this was the House of Democracy and that you were sovereign. This is just a bill and the gentlemen. Members will certainly have all the competence and wisdom to make this mere bill the best possible law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u29	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to enter the second point of our agenda, which consists in the general discussion of Bill No 47 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the Disciplinary Statute of the Public Security Police. To present the bill, you have the floor of the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u30	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This bill aims to provide the PSP with a new disciplinary status that replaces the one that has been approved for more than 27 years and that was absolutely inadequate to the legislative developments while in Portugal. This bill has been widely negotiated with the union associations of the PSP, because it is related to a matter which is and will continue to be subject under the law to collective bargaining. of the set of measures to be introduced, I would like to highlight a few. The principle of independence and autonomy of the disciplinary procedure was clarified in relation to the criminal procedure. As regards the preventive suspension, the case law of the Constitutional Court was accepted, and the ruling for a crime was no longer an automatic effect, in addition to the elimination of any loss of remuneration during the period of this precautionary measure. A precautionary measure of limited preventive transfer was introduced in time and space. I recognize that, in an innovative way, the possibility of suspension of the proceedings is established, like what exists today in the criminal proceedings and it is impossible, in abstract, for lighter offences, to replace the criminal procedure with injunctions provided it is with the consent of the defendant. We believe that, with this measure, the stigmatizing effects of some penalties are eliminated and the process speed is increased. With regard to disciplinary penalties, verbal repression was eliminated in obedience to the principle of the compulsoryity of a written procedure. There was a better characterization of the fine penalty and the possibility that it would never exceed one third of the offender's remuneration. The possibility of payment in benefits was also established as regards the penalty for fines. The pensioners were excluded from the scope of this disciplinary status. Although, during collective bargaining, we had maintained the position that police retirees, whenever they committed crimes, invoking this police quality, would now be submitted to the Assembly in this proposed version, this possibility has been eliminated. to retired persons it is only possible to apply the disciplinary process when they have committed infringements while they were on active, i.e. before they are retired. Even so, for the most serious penalties, which today, in accordance with the current regime, imply total loss of remuneration, the principle of the Civil Procedure Code, which establishes the impermissibility of two thirds of people's incomes, has been enshrined. Therefore, even in these cases, the penalties to be applied can only involve the loss of one third of the remuneration. I believe that this is a modern disciplinary statute, appropriate and without any doubt as to its constitutionality, which deserves no censorship, thus eliminating all the censures that are currently in force. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u31	For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u32	Mr President, Minister for Internal Administration, Mr and Mrs. Members: Within a few weeks, more specifically on 20 February 2017, 27 years have passed since the publication of Law No. 7 / 90, which approved the disciplinary status of the current Public Security Police, so the need to update it has been more than evident for a long time. The need for updating is necessary not only because of the inconformity of the current statute with the evolution of legislation in general these almost three decades, but above all because some of the precepts of the current statute have raised serious interpretative problems and even compliance with constitutional dictates. For this reason, the Left Block considers it essential to eliminate the possibility of suspension of duties and withdrawing a sixth from the term of office of a police officer pronounced for crimes with penalties of more than three years as provided for in the current Article 38 ( 1 ). the current status, which was recently declared unconstitutional due to violation of the principles of presumption of innocence of the arguate and proportionality. We also believe that the penalties applicable to the guarantee of minimum subsistence income, which has been in force for many years in civil procedural law, which ensures the relative impermissibility of wages or pensions, must be compatible. in the same way, we consider of the most elementary justice and good sense the legal forecast that enables the defendant to pay the fines in benefits. We are also in favour of the possibility of suspension of proceedings, as already provided for in the Criminal Procedure, when the infringement is, in an abstract way, liable to be applied to the penalty of reprehensiveness or fine by complying with the injunctions and rules of conduct by the defendant, with the agreement of the criminal proceedings, and we have found some assumptions which allow the predictability that they are sufficiently responsive to the prevention requirements and to the absence of a high degree of guilt. in the same way, we understand that persons in pre-retirement or retirement situations should not be subject to the same rules as those applicable to other Public Security Police professionals. As such, we believe that this bill, put forward by the Government, is responding to a number of situations, which, in fact, were already claims from trade union associations and public security law enforcement professionals, and we believe that some of these situations are actually solved, and that is a good goal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u33	For an intervention, Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u34	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members: I take advantage of the presence of PSP officers in Parliament to direct them, on behalf of the PSD, a greeting and a thank you for your work, commitment and dedication in reducing crime, making Portugal a safer country. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u35	The consensus reached on the disciplinary status of the PSP is also the result of the work carried out by the previous Government, which in 2015 approved the professional status and which provided for in Article 6. the, a deontological regime and discipline itself for the police. Mr. Minister, the professional status and disciplinary status of the PSP are important contributions to increasing the efficiency of the police organization and to increasing the motivation of its elements. But these statutes will be insufficient if no concrete steps are taken in the increase and rejuvenation of effectiveness, improvement of professional conditions and strengthening of PSP resources. at the end of one year, in a balance sheet, we must conclude that its performance is clearly insufficient. It is insufficient in view of the real needs of the country and it is insufficient in view of its own promises. Mrs. Minister, four examples are just to illustrate what I have just mentioned: of the promised incorporation of 800 new agents, we have only 300, and these thanks to the previous government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u36	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u37	We continue in the field of mere promises regarding the new online baggage acquisition model the outsourcing of bars and canteens as a way to free operational resources.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u38	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u39	It also continues without knowing the light of the day, Minister, the effective regulation of the professional status as regards the new system of assessment of shortcomings and annual promotion contests. The same applies to the new organic law of the PSP. And what is the result of this activity, Minister? The result is easily demonstrated by the use of various embarrassing and worrying episodes, such as those that happened and happen at Lisbon Airport, where the lack of effective means, lack of training, both at the level of the PSP and at the level of the SEF ( Service of Foreigners and Borders), allow passengers to escape. With this policy of de-investment we will never have the policy that we want, that we need and that the effectives rightly demand. Madam Minister, we recognize the importance of this initiative, but we do not see ourselves in its policies and in its insufficient performance. Insufficient to enable the PSP to carry out its important task of defending democratic legality, guaranteeing internal security and citizens' rights efficiently. [[Congratulations from the PSD and CDS-PP Member Telmo Correia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u40	Mr Jorge Machado has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u41	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Members : Mrs Minister, in this diploma, in which the disciplinary status of PSP staff changes, we feel the active contributions of the representative structures of workers, which have been signalled here and which we want to value as a very positive aspect. Negotiation must be considered in a serious way, and we are all thus gaining, because contributions that have been expressed by the structures have been included and the diploma has been enriched. In addition to this aspect, we want to welcome the prospect of the exclusion of disciplinary measures for retirees, which was a problem that was prolonged over time, the impermenability of one third of the salary, which stems from the legislation of national jurisprudence but that it was important to clarify in the disciplinary status, and the new mechanism of the possibility of suspension of the procedure, which is innovative and deserves our agreement. There are, however, some aspects which give us doubts, which we will refer to discussion in the field of expertise and which we cannot fail to signal. Of course, a fundamental question, which is the following: should the disciplinary process be conducted by the hierarchical superior? This is a question that we have insofar as, often, the disciplinary process can be used as a form of retaliation on the agent and one way of avoiding it would be to delegate the disciplinary process not to the hierarchical superior but, rather, to an autonomous and independent structure that made the conduct of the disciplinary process independently and therefore immune to this possibility. We know that this involves even changes in the status and not only in the disciplinary regime, but we want to leave this issue on the table. On the other hand, we believe that there is an excessive weight of serious infringements. The separation between minor, serious and very serious infringements offers doubts that it is necessary to clarify in the field of specialty, insofar as the wording, as it is, allows for minor infringements to be virtually nonexistent, since there is an excessive weight in classification and a driving which seems to indicate a guidance for serious infringements given to legal formulation. We will be available, as it is obvious, to deepen this matter, which we report as important. The last aspect we want to highlight has to do with the possibility of preventive transfer and preventive suspension, which already existed in the current disciplinary status, have a weight that we consider to be excessive. A preventive transfer that can last up to eight months or a preventive suspension that can last up to six months may be considered - and we consider it - at the start - as excessive in that the accused has not yet formed the charge so that we can defend ourselves We know that there are mechanisms that allow the filtering of the situations in which the suspension and the transfer applies, but, despite this excessive time that it can last, it can also set up a retaliation aspect about the professional, without, I repeat, a formal accusation. Finally, Mr President — and I would like to thank you for your tolerance — I would like to say that, in this legislative process, we will also be in the centre of discussion on the subject of the speciality, committed to improving the diploma, so there is political will to do so. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u42	Mr Telmo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u43	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr State Secretary, Mrs and Mrs Members: I begin by saying, Mrs Minister, that this subject of disciplinary status does not have the controversy or the problem that had the previous matter and, therefore, we place things as they are and we separate things from each other. With regard to what we have discussed here, Mrs Minister, it is true that we are in the House of Democracy and it is true that the parliamentary groups can decide what they understand, but it was agreed that the government, when it arrived here with a diploma, had taken care of at least negotiating with the parties that support it and at least listening to the parties concerned, especially the unions, because this is no method! [[Obviously!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u44	To say « I am progressing as well, with anything coming out of my office and now see if the committee makes a law...» Well, I do not think that this is, I repeat, the Minister, method to solve this kind of problem. I also told the Minister that there is no more or less than there is for public service. But, Madam Minister, let's see if we understand each other—and perhaps that is exactly where we differ. It was the Socialist Party that considered — and we are obviously talking about Law No. 12 -A / 2008 — that the police were public officials,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u45	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u46	... but, for us, police are not mere civil servants, they cannot be treated as if they were only civil servants, because they have obligations, they have duties, they have even their unions, they have impediments that civil servants do not have—for example, the right to strike—and therefore they have to be differentiated by the nature of their activity, by the risk it entails and by all that is associated with them. This seems quite obvious to me. With regard to this issue, Mrs Minister, I mean that we will not oppose it, we will work in the specialty, as is evident, and we have even recorded — in fact, this has already been said and we agree — that this activity needs to be dignified. These men often struggle with... The news is daily, Mrs. Minister — in fact, Mrs. Sara Madruga from Costa was still talking about it - the news is yesterday, today, it is news about agents who have to use their own cars, because there are no cars available! That is why it is important to give freedom to the unions, because it is they who, in the first hand, denounce these shortcomings, denounce the lack of means, denounce the lack of conditions. In disciplinary terms, there is an advance here, and this is significant: there is an advance, for example, on the issue of remuneration, in order to ensure basic subsistence—of course, a fundamental right; there is an advance when there is no loss of remuneration at the beginning of a trial and even a suspension, because obviously it could be unfair and there is no decision yet; there is an advance on the question of pensioners not subject to the disciplinary process. Therefore, this matter does not deserve us the criticisms we have made before and we will be available to discuss in the field of specialty, with a view that is always this, Mrs Minister — and this will have to be a serious concern and will have to be a serious discussion: in a sovereignty area, in a State area, in an area that would involve, or should involve, a very broad consensus in this House, we cannot decide it without having the same consensus and without listening to the representatives of whom you are on the ground every day and risk your life for the safety of Portuguese people. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u47	For an intervention, Mrs Susana Amador has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u48	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mrs and Mrs. Members: I begin by welcoming the Government, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, for this important disciplinary status. A statute, as I said, modern, a statute that was important to review, given the longevity of the current statute, and so necessary. This status appears as a logical corollary and objective of the review carried out to the status of staff with police functions of the PSP, as provided for in Article 6. , that the police are governed by their own rules of discipline. Thus, the adoption of a new statute was required, since the current had to live with three organic diplomas and three staff statutes of the PSP, which was added to the new labour law, which excluded from its scope the staff with police functions of the PSP, and the new Code of Administrative Process, pillar of administrative procedures, thus making it imperative, and well, the need to harmonize the disciplinary regime with the legal changes that occurred successively. Therefore, it was very good for the government to consider the concerns underlying the diploma and the enormous, consensual and extended hearing that it chaired. The amendments are so profound that in terms of the rigor and clarity of the system, the presentation of a new diploma was justified, and that is what has been done with the political courage, which we must always acknowledge, given that they are complex matters, which the Socialist Party once again had. This diploma was subject to compulsory and also optional hearings and what happened was that there were opinions of agreement or proposals for amendment which were all incorporated, which also reveals to us the very involved, consensual and very concerted character throughout this process. I would also like to say that this proposal is based on a commitment by the police with PSP, with the community and with the citizens, and it is very important the commitment that permeates this legislation. With this new disciplinary status, it is intended, above all, to systematize and harmonize a set of amendments with the general administrative procedure where we would like to point out: the obligation of the disciplinary procedure with regard to the application of a measure or a disciplinary procedure; the obligation to register written in all situations; the classification of disciplinary offences in mild, severe and very serious and very serious cases; the elimination of the punishment of verbal punishment; the establishment of a single scale, which includes the penalties of repeachment, fine, fine, suspension; the characterization of the penalty of fine penalty; the penalty of fine, the monthly discount of which cannot now exceed one third of the penalty payment of fine payment of benefits; there is here a set of criteria up to humanity that are very important and that we want to underline; the elimination of the possibility of the possibility of a suspension of the sentence of the sentence and that we wish to underline; the possibility of suspending the sentence, as closely as possible in the criminal proceedings of the criminal procedural procedure, the criminal law, the need to be made, the effect which enables us, the effects which enables us to be removed, the effect, the effect which enables us, the effect, the effect, the effect which enables us to make us, the effect which enables us to make and the effect which we have, the effect, the effect, the effect which we can have, the effect which we have, the effect of the effect which we have, the effect of, and the effect which we can have, and the effect which has, and the means to make and the effect which we have, and the effect of the effect of, and the effect which we have, and the effect which we have, the effect of the effect of, the effect of the effect of, the effect of, and the effect of the effect which we have, the effect, the effect of, and the effect of, the effect of, and the effect of the effect of the effect which we have, the effect which we have and the effect which we have, and the effect which we have, the effect which we have, and the effect which we have, the effect, the effect of, the effect of, the effect of the effect of the effect of, the effect of, the effect of, the effect of, the effect of, the effect of the effect of the effect of the effect of the effect of the effect of the effect which we In addition, ladies and gentlemen. Members are chairing these amendments criteria for harmonisation, simplification, modernisation, speed and updating of procedures that properly and fairly safeguard the guarantees of visas, and we see this new disciplinary status of the PSP, which we are now discussing and which we will certainly also improve at the best level of European procedures, thus prestigious the Public Security Police, which has been a source of national pride for its high sense of public service, which we want to welcome here with a living voice. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u49	For the closure of this item on our agenda, I give the floor to the Minister of Internal Administration.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u50	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Like the previous bill on union freedom, this bill, which enshrines a new disciplinary status, will be discussed by the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen. The gentlemen. Members represent the legislative power, so they will have competence and wisdom to conclude a legislative process with seriousness and sense of state. As regards the question of method, Mr Telmo Correia, I appreciate the role of the Assembly of the Republic, so I would never be able to present something pre-negotiated that would withdraw to the Members. Members of all parliamentary committees are responsible for their responsibility as legislators. Sir, would you like what? A check already signed? No, sir! The honourable Member and the Members. Members of all parliamentary committees will naturally have the opportunity to assume their responsibilities in a state-of-the-art manner and to improve all these proposals. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u51	Mrs. Members, at the end of this debate, we move on to the third item on the agenda, with the general discussion of Bill No 48/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — The first amendment is made to Law No 22 / 2013 of 26 February giving judicial administrators access to various databases, including the computer record of executions, tax databases and social security. To present the bill, Mr. Justice Minister Francisca Van Dunem has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u52	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This legislative initiative aims, as has already been mentioned, to ensure direct access by judicial administrators, for the performance of their duties, to the computer record of executions and to the databases of the commercial register, the real estate register, the car register and other similar records and archives. It is the realization of another measure included in the Capitalize programme and is complementary to another measure, adopted already in September, which ensures direct electronic access to the computer system to support the activities of the courts, CITIUS, in this category of auxiliaries of justice. It is a measure that eliminates several steps in obtaining information essential to the outcome of insolvency proceedings, since at present this information can be obtained but only with the intermediation of the court. It is also a measure that allows for the removal of situations of lack of cooperation from debtors or for the prompt confirmation of their heritage, which is particularly relevant, since the court, in cases of liquidation, needs to know exactly the debtor's heritage and that, in recovery situations, access to information is essential to ensure transparency. Finally, this proposal is inserted into a series of simplification measures, which will continue, in this specific segment, with the extension of electronic processing, in the part of the process which legally belongs to the administrators, and this is another measure also included in the Capitalisation Programme. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u53	Mrs. Members, it happens that the Bureau does not have any registration for this point of debate at this time, so we will move on to the next point if no Member or no Member will sign up. [[Pause.]] Mr Fernando Anastácio, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u54	Mr President, Mrs Minister for Justice, Mrs and Mrs Members: Early and effective justice is essential for a good performance of the economy. It is a government priority, as well as the PS Parliamentary Group, to create the necessary conditions for the existence of a business friendly environment. The speeding up of procedures, particularly in the context of the recovery and revitalization of enterprises, as well as in the acceleration of business restructuring processes, is a need for everyone recognized. The development of the Electronic Public Administration has allowed a set of public databases to be created and developed, which have facilitated the action of judicial agents and which, today, allow the practice of purely administrative acts to be removed from the court's sphere, with the aim of giving greater effectiveness to procedural processing. The insolvency and recovery regime of companies is, in fact, an example where such measures have a perfect fit. It should be noted, as already mentioned, that it is important for the fulfilment of the competences and responsibilities of insolvency administrators to be effective knowledge and access to public databases in order to be better able to carry out their mission, in particular to know the heritage of debtors and companies. This bill amends Article 11. that of Law No 22 / 2013 and through it, the judicial administrators shall have access, in terms equivalent to implementing agents, to the computer record of executions, as well as to be able to consult the databases of the Tax Administration, social security, the conservatories of the residential, commercial and automobile register and other similar ones. It is a matter which will certainly contribute to a better performance of these activities, but which also, with regard to it, did not want to stop doing here today a reflection. The possibility of access to personal data in the databases of the Tax Authority, social security or commercial records is an essential aspect, it is fact, but I would also like to point out that the demand for speed and effectiveness should always be consistent with respect for the protection of personal data and the guarantee of secrecy. of the different opinions that were issued permeates this concern, concern that we accompany. It is therefore essential that, in this area, there is no doubt that these professionals, by virtue of their activities and in the precise scope of their activities, should be subject to a duty of confidentiality and confidentiality in relation to their personal data and information. The discussion in the specialty, with the request for opinions to entities such as the National Data Protection Commission and the Banco de Portugal, among others, will allow us to caution this concern and find a better formulation. I finish with the certainty that this is another step, a contribution, to improving existing legislation in order to make justice what we all want and that the economy demands: faster, more effective and more just justice. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u55	I now give the floor to Mr José Silvano, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u56	Mr President, Mrs Minister for Justice, Mrs and Mrs Members: There is today an amendment to Law No 22 / 2013 to Parliament with the aim of speeding up database consultations, speed in insolvency proceedings and more rigorous and comprehensive information on goods that are affected by broken mass. It is important that this be done for the speed of justice. But who would say that who brings today, here, this initiative is a government supported by the Socialist Party that four years ago, when the discussion of the statute of the judicial administrator was held in this House in December 2012, said that this reform was inept? And he said more, and I quote: "Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the approval of the statute of judicial administrators will not take any side, nor will it go well. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u57	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u58	It is therefore important that the Socialist Party itself, or the Government of the Socialist Party itself, should bring here today the expansion and enhancement of this approved standard, that of the role of judicial administrators. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u59	I would also like to say that we agree with this principle, with some limitations — and the Minister knows the doubts she has raised by the partners — in particular in regulating these rights, i.e. the rights to be granted must be precise and regulated and always in view of the confidentiality of these data. We know that sometimes these agents are not properly attached to secrecy in these matters, so there must be some caution. It must also be done — we find — a record of who consults what and whether only consults or analyses of data, because here may be a legal problem that can complicate these situations. We also wanted to say that those who abuse should have disciplinary penalties. This bill should therefore also contain appropriate disciplinary penalties for those who abuse these matters and these powers. Mrs. Minister, I'm finishing up with one more quote. During the discussion of this law, the Socialist Party said at the time in this House the following : « The business rehabilitation plan and the statute of the judicial administrator are the abbeys with which the Ministers of Economics and Justice intend to deduce the sin that their colleague for finances has adjourned in the Portuguese economy ». He said four years ago, here, the Socialist Party speaker on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u60	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u61	Now, with the expansion of these powers - and I shall finish, Mr President - they do not want to only owe the disaster, but they want to run with the Minister of Finance? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u62	I now give the floor to Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u63	Mr President, Minister for Justice and Mr. State Secretaries, I begin by complimenting you. Madam Minister, we do not object in principle to this rule, to this access to public databases by judicial administrators in the same way as this is permitted for implementing agents, but we have doubts. The question arises: if this access is to be made in the same way as the implementing agents, judicial administrators will also have to have the same duties and obligations as the implementing agents. That's what we need to do here. That's what we need to pay attention to. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u64	Moreover, I would like to tell you, Mrs Minister, that the CDS, together with the PSD, when it was in government, was a precursor to an amendment made to the Civil Procedure Code, which is very important today, which allowed implementing agents to suspend bank accounts without prior judicial authorization. Therefore, we understand that it is essential that judicial administrators can also have access to these public databases without prior judicial authorization. It is, however, necessary to ensure that this access is made with security conditions and absolutely marked for what the functions of the judicial administrators are. We realize that what is intended is to accelerate insolvency — we agree as much as possible with this principle, because in Portugal insolvency takes too long and this is detrimental to the economy and people even because of the phenomenon of hijacking that some insolvency brings in relation to others —,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u65	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u66	... but it is pernicious to do so in such broad terms that they are not absolutely collateralistic. So, Madam Minister, in addition to this doubt, I think it was important — and we will discuss this in the field of specialty — that in our own law we have changed, in which there is already a general counter-ordination for the violation of the duties to which they are bound, there is not only a counter-ordination, but also a disciplinary penalty in the event of breach of those obligations. Furthermore, Mrs Minister, I would like to leave you two questions which are lateral, but which, in our view, are also important in relation to this issue, precisely to reduce the response time of insolvency proceedings. last year—I believe that in May—the Minister spoke back on the idea of the equitable appointment of judicial administrators. So far, we have no longer heard about this issue. Do you keep the question or, on the contrary, did you go back to the idea of not being evenly appointed? Now it seems to us that the solution is worse: it overloads one another and takes work from another. And insolvencys, as we know, do not sympathize with the delays they already have. Before concluding, Mr. President, I would like to ask Mr. Minister once again the idea of allowing a competition to be opened for more judicial administrators. Ms.Minister spoke about opening a contest for more judicial administrators, despite the 70 who entered the past legislature, and I would like to see if she gave in to what the class understands, i.e. if it does not feel necessary, or if, on the contrary, she continues to understand that more judicial administrators are needed. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u67	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau does not record any more entries at this time, so we will move on to the next item on our agenda. If that's not the case... [[Pause.]] Mr António Filipe, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u68	Mr President, Mrs. Minister for Justice, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: There have already been concerns about this bill, in particular by Mr Fernando Anastácio, which we share. We believe that it is a relevant bill, which actually detects a problem that needs to help resolve, in particular with regard to the speed of insolvency proceedings. There are, however, rights of third parties which must be safeguarded and aspects, in particular related to confidentiality by those who have access to certain types of data, which must be safeguarded beyond any doubt. We therefore believe that it is necessary to see very carefully, in the specialty, the concrete aspects of this bill, but, of course, we understand the reasons for its presentation and we are available to make our contribution.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u69	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mrs Sandra Cunha, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u70	Mr President, Mrs. Minister for Justice, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: This proposal to amend the legal regime of judicial administrators, which assigns access to public databases in the same way as it is given to implementing agents, is of course a proposal to which the Left Block does not deny relevance and necessity. The Left Block is also sensitive to the objectives it presides over, in particular as regards — and has already been mentioned several times — the speedy consultation of the databases by the judicial administrators, the accurate and strict information on the assets constituting the insolvent mass and the guarantee or the possibility of greater speed in insolvency proceedings which this amendment may print. This proposal for a law, however, concerns matters which are particularly sensitive to the Left Block — access to personal data relating to the private life of citizens and citizens — and we therefore believe that, like what we are defending in other debates that have already taken place and in which this matter was raised, it is also essential in this case to ensure strict respect for the constitutional principles of proportionality and adequacy in access to these data. Therefore, we believe that this amendment proposal can and should be improved at the level of speciality, in particular by clarifying several issues that have already been pointed out in the various opinions issued in relation to this proposal, such as: ensuring that all persons who have knowledge of personal data are obliged to carry out duties of secrecy and confidentiality; ensuring that access to such data is intended for exclusive use in and for the exercise of the specific competences of these judicial administrators in each specific process; ensuring that access to such assumptions will be subject to discipline and, where appropriate, to civil and criminal liability, as has already been referred to by other banks; clarifying the scope of access to judicial administrators; i.e., that any reference will be made only to consultation or to allow the inclusion and updating of databases, and, if necessary, to amend Decree-Law No. 201 / 2003; and clarifying the specific computer system to be provided to enable this system to handle personaldatabases , inparticular , the use of the use of the system of personalinformation. We would therefore like to get these clarifications. Finally, we want to reinforce that compliance with well-defined rules and monitoring in access to personal data and public databases by third parties are absolutely essential conditions for safeguarding the rights and guarantees of citizens and citizens. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u71	The Minister for Justice has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u72	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Of course, I would like to congratulate you on the fact that there is a principled understanding here on the need for this measure. I believe that, essentially, what there may be some disagreement or any greater concern has to do with the issues of fundamental rights, the secret regimes to which these bases are subject and, of course, the link to the secret to which these agents will be subject. I would like to say, firstly, that the Government, at the level of the preparation of this law, did the hearings that would be appropriate and, in this context, heard the National Data Protection Commission, which considered that the access of judicial administrators to these bases, exclusively in the context of the processes in which they work and for that purpose, was adjusted, appropriate and proportionate. I think, however, that if you are the Members. Members understand that in addition, there is a need for closer mechanisms to be created with regard to safeguarding the secret, eventually identifying consequences for the breach of that secret or for the misuse of data, I see no obstacle and am completely open to this possibility. I would also like to recall that in 2013 the regime was this, that is, until 2013 the legal standard provided for this access. Therefore, this provision of access is not new, it is a provision of access that already existed, which was not, in fact, regulated and implemented, but already existed, exactly in these terms, i.e. there was an equalization of administrators to implementing agents. in the 2013 regime, what is wrong from my point of view, and indeed it is a « law without arms », is that these agents, which in essence have in the insolvency and recovery system of companies, a place parallel to that of implementing agents, end up without the instruments that enable them to perform their function. And, in this perspective, the law of 2013 is in fact a law that, I would say, has no potential to solve the issues to which it was intended. For others...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u73	You want to finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u74	Of course, Mr. President. As regards the question of the platform, it will in principle be close to SISAAE. with regard to the question of quota or not, everything is being decided in the framework of Capitalisation, where there are a set of rules that are being considered and will therefore be presented in due course. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u75	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of this debate, we will move on to the fourth point of our agenda, which is the general discussion of Bill No 49 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Approves the law on public health. To begin the debate and present the bill, Mr. Secretary of State and Health have the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u76	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The bill that I present to you today approves the law of public health, establishing measures to protect and promote health, to prevent disease, as well as to control and respond to threats and risks of public health, for the benefit of the population, integrating this measure into the priority of the Government Programme, to promote a new ambition for public health. Through this proposal, the consolidation of a single law of the most relevant specific public health legislation produced over several decades and dispersed by numerous regulations is carried out, so fifteen diplomas are repealed, in particular, two laws, eight laws decrees, one regulatory decree and four portals, and they are updated. in this sense, the Government continues its commitment to simplify and improve the quality of legislation, through legislative consolidation and the elimination of dispersed legislation. In this way, in particular, it is intended to establish the rules and principles of public health organization, including the services of the health authorities and the National Public Health Council, updating them according to the progress achieved in this specific area of intervention. The competences of public health services at national, regional and local level are strengthened in the areas of epidemiological surveillance, monitoring the state of health of the population, planning and intervention programmed in health and epidemiological research, engaging in the development of technically more robust national, regional and local plans and that effectively meet health needs. On the other hand, and because the success of the pursuit of these competencies is possible only with the involvement of all professionals in the public health areas, it is enriched by its expanded participation and its network functioning, in a collaborative and participatory environment, providing them with vital instruments to its functioning. In this context, it should be noted that the draft law that was based on this proposal resulted from the work carried out by the Commission for the Reform of National Public Health, which, in addition to being chaired by Mr. Director-General of Health, is composed of representatives of the various general health administrations, also includes representatives of the various orders and professional associations, trade union organizations and other health associations, making a total of more than 25 elements. This Commission therefore receives a broad view of the involvement of the various knowledge and competences in public health, which is intended to be reflected in the organic and functionalities of its services. Furthermore, measures to protect and promote health and prevent the disease are established, providing for an epidemiological surveillance system, an entomological surveillance system and an environmental surveillance system, as well as specific protection through vaccination. in this context, recognizing also the important contribution of public health to governance, it is determined that the adoption of legislative measures with impact on health should be preceded by previous studies, in a health perspective in all policies. Furthermore, procedures relating to the management of emergencies in public health are established and the establishment of the specialized centre for alert and response is implemented. The bill that you will appreciate today, which can and should, of course, be improved with the proposals of the honourable Members. Members and Members of Parliament, in the field of expertise, will form one of the initiatives of the new ambition for public health, in a reformist movement that aims to focus on the role of public health as a key instrument for strengthening the citizen's position at the center of the health system. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u77	To request clarification, Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u78	Mr President, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Health, The Greens are pleased to look at the idea of consolidating at least the most relevant legislation on public health, which is dispersed by an abundant set of legal diplomas because, in fact, this claim can facilitate the reading and correct interpretation of legal norms on public health. We also believe that we will only have to win with the intention of consolidating and updating the progress achieved in the area of specific public health intervention. But we will only have to win if, in any way, if we can strengthen the capacity of health services, if we enrich the extended participation of the professionals involved and, finally, if the services are equipped with the means and instruments necessary to their desirable functioning, because if it is not, little or nothing progresses in what is essential. However, the Greens still have some doubts and concerns about this proposal, which we consider important and which we would like to see clarified. There are doubts and concerns, above all, in two elements which, according to which we have had the opportunity to ascertain, have even been agreed between the Government and the Committee on Public Health Reform but do not appear in the proposal that the Government is now presenting to us. We are talking, on the one hand, about the ratios and, on the other, about the pay supplement for other professionals, besides doctors, with health authority functions. Starting with this last concern, the Government's proposal only provides for the remuneration supplement for doctors with health authority functions, leaving other professionals outside, from then on, environmental health technicians and also public health nurses. This is at least the result of Article 11. The proposal of the law. with regard to the ratios, the current Decree-Law No. 81/2009, which is still in force but which the proposal intends to repeal, establishes the following ratios: a doctor with a degree of public health specialist for every 25,000 inhabitants, a nurse for every 30,000 inhabitants and an environmental health technician for every 15 000 inhabitants. It happens that neither these nor other ratios are provided for in this proposal for a law, which can certainly further exacerbate the shortage of professionals in this area. In fact, there is a recent study by the Portuguese Environmental Health Association that indicates that about 270 environmental health technicians are missing in public health units. What we think is that this proposal, by not providing for these ratios, will certainly make it difficult for these professionals to enter and will accentuate inequality in the distribution of resources, with serious damage, certainly, to the areas deprived of the interior. Therefore, Mr Secretary of State, we would like you to be able to clarify these two issues which have now been put here and which, for us, are of great importance. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u79	With no further requests for clarification, you have the floor to answer, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Health.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u80	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government and the Ministry of Health, in particular, intend to provide these public health services with the means and resources necessary for their proper functioning. It is vital that this noble area of health has its ability to intervene and respond exactly to the objectives that the law itself has shaped. On the issues you have raised, concerning ratios and remuneration supplements, we believe that this bill is balanced. It can, of course, be improved, but it should not be limited in terms of its own evolution that it is important to have in an area of intense evolution and dynamic. We therefore believe that the ideal is to be a sufficiently open and balanced law and that it can be adapted to the evolution that is necessary in terms of means and resources over time. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u81	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u82	Mr. President, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Health, Mrs. Members: Today we are debating a bill from the Government that approves the law on public health, a proposal that is, unfortunately, once again submitted by the Government to the Assembly of the Republic without being accompanied by any study or opinion that is fundamentally appropriate. I recall that both the Regiment of the Assembly of the Republic and Decree-Law No 274/2009 establish that the bills are accompanied by documentation that underpins them. Underlining the relevance of the matter, I would therefore like to ask Mr. Secretary of State whether they have been heard, for the preparation of this initiative, for example, the National Data Protection Commission, the Order of Physicians, the Order of Nurses, the INSA (National Institute of Health Doctor Ricardo Jorge) or the Directorate-General for Food and Veterinary and, if so, what their positions were regarding the content of this bill. Of course, several hearings will have to be held in the field of specialty, but I would like to know which entities heard the government, in addition to the Directorate-General of Health, which, as it is public, was the entity that was responsible for preparing this initiative. It is that, Mr Secretary of State, contrary to what the Government has taken in its Programme, to undertake a genuine reform of public health, this bill seems to us to be just a compilation of existing legislation. It is true that the legislation that exists on public health is vast, dispersed and needs to be consolidated, we agree. But is this government initiative far beyond the promised public health reform? We are not the only ones to say this, the National Federation of Physicians itself ( FNAM ) has made its position public on this bill, showing huge reservations and raising issues that seem relevant to us. For example, is the reform of public health linked with the reforms of primary health care, hospital care and continuous and palliative care? Where, in this bill, is the approach to new social diseases, chronic diseases, prevention and the form of intervention in their determinants? Where does this bill answer these questions? We have several other questions, Mr Secretary of State. How many doctors, nurses and professionals are there currently in the country? It's public that they don't reach the needs. Has there been a prior planning of human resources needs in this area? How are we in terms of public health training? This proposal is neither enlightening nor reassuring in this regard. We also have other questions to raise regarding the transmission and protection of personal data, which we understand to be very relevant, but, as time here is scarce, we will leave these questions to be put to the National Data Protection Commission, in the field of specialty. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Secretary of State, public health is a very important area, which effectively has to be improved and modernized in Portugal. in this sense, it is important to reflect whether what is intended is only, and only, to consolidate in a single degree the vast and dispersed legislation that exists on this matter—and, in this case, this proposal fulfils this objective—or if, on the contrary, we want to go further—and the CDS understands that it does — and should take advantage of the opportunity and move forward towards the necessary reform of public health. Here, Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, the Government is far from fulfilling this commitment. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u83	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Ricardo Baptista Leite, on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u84	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Secretary of State: This government has indeed been successful in building images and propaganda bricks, and the image of the flying cow will forever be in our retina. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u85	in reality, over the past year, we have been hearing the government say that it wanted a new ambition for public health. But when the time comes for the truth, then we see a bill that brings little new public health and ambition. It is, in fact, a mere compilation of laws—as Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto said—for many more of them which have been out of date and which have not been an update. But it is not just the Social Democratic Party that says so. As Mrs Isabel Galriza Neto said, the FNAM itself, the National Federation of Physicians—in fact, its proximity is known to the Portuguese Communist Party itself—, she stated, perennially, in a statement, that this consolidation of existing legislation does not bring about reformer. Moreover, FNAM goes further, to the point of saying that this proposal, and I quote « is inadequate to the requirements that a modern public health demands in the 21st century. Do not keep on seeking. ” in this proposal, the government maintains the status quo, maintains everything as it was and focuses all public health action on infectious diseases, but not in this approach has been modernized. Let's look at the flu case in Portugal. Data speak for themselves: in this winter, excessive mortality in Portugal was higher than in other European countries than 15. That is, we are being inefficient in our action and the proposed law in nothing is correcting this trajectory. With this, people suffer when they should not suffer, so people die when they could continue to live. I am sorry to have to say this, but what the Government is presenting today, in this House, is an omissive bill in essence, nothing reforming and inadequate of the current reality. in a country where coronary and cerebrovascular diseases are the main cause of mortality, in which we see the prevalence numbers of diabetes to rise, we see nothing in this bill to address chronic diseases. in a country where alcohol and tobacco consumption and gambling addiction are growing, with high levels of consumption of anxiolytics and antidepressants, what response does this bill give to the problems of dependence and mental health? None. in a country where rulers claim that citizens should be at the center of the National Health Service, what does this bill suggest to promote active citizenship? Nothing. In a country which is the oldest in Europe, what does the bill recommend to address demographic challenges? Strictly nothing. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, in a country that continues to be marked by deep inequalities, what does this bill propose to address the social determinants of health? Nothing, nothing, nothing. I'm done where I started. All professional and political actors have the will of a real reform of public health, a reform that the country needs, but in this case, in the end, is the disappointment of a lost opportunity. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u86	I now give the floor to Mr Luís Soares on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u87	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The PSD, in fact, does not surprise us. The first question that needs to be asked, after the speech of the previous Member of Parliament, is where the PSD has been in the past four years.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u88	Paying your debts!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u89	In fact, it is understood that the position of the PSD has changed because of the fact that it is today in the opposition. Honor be given to the CDS which, in spite of everything, comes here to say that this objective of condensing legislation which was a bit dispersed throughout the legal system is a positive measure. I want to say here that this proposal is this, it is a proposal that gives the kick-off for what was the legitimate aspiration of the entire health community, to condense, on the one hand, the legislation that was dispersed in a single degree but, above all, to give the kick-off for what we all also yearn for, which is the reform of public health in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we cannot view this moment and this initiative of the Government as a missed opportunity, because to say that this is a missed opportunity is to demean the work that has been done by the government, by the working group, by the Commission for the Reform of National Public Health, constituted by the Directorate-General for Health, by regional health administrations, by professional associations, by trade union organizations, by health associations... So this work done by all these institutions is lost work? No, it's not lost work, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. We are well aware — it is good to say — of the disagreements of some entities, already expressed in this House today by some Members. Members, as far as the circumstances of this proposal are concerned, do not already include the much-needed reform of public health. The Socialist Party is looking at it, as I have already said, as the kickoff and the Assembly of the Republic, the parliamentary groups, have an absolutely relevant role here. Today we are starting this discussion, which will continue for the specialty, where we will do our work, we will invite the institutions that want to speak on this subject, certain that this is not a minor work, it is a work that is at the service of public health reform and that meets the challenges that we all have. Specific challenges, already included in the National Health Plan, and also challenges in abstract, health promotion, disease prevention, networking of health services, in collaborative platforms, involving developed means and information and communication systems, regardless of the absolutely relevant role of human resources and their training. This is the challenge that I leave to all parliamentary groups, to all institutions, which have already been heard or which can still be heard, so that this work in the specialty enriches the work that is the exit step given by the government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u90	Mr João Ramos, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: The Ministry of Health has published an order to create the Commission for the Reform of National Public Health, where it pointed out the need to approve a new legal framework for public health that responds to current needs. However, three months ago, in a context in which some actors claim that the areas of reflection have not been created, the bill has emerged today under discussion. This, as stated in the preamble, essentially makes a compilation of dispersed legislation, with some updates. This is far from the reform announced. Progress is being made without an assessment of the current public health situation. Without this diagnosis, the proposals will hardly respond to existing problems. The legislative initiative leaves aside one of the main public health problems: the serious shortage of professionals. The small number of doctors specialists in public health is dramatic, worse in the south than in the north, but also here very few. There are also few public health nurses, and it was necessary to value their role. There are councils where there is an environmental health technician for 80 000 inhabitants. It is necessary to hire more technicians and to take proper advantage of their professional profile. No experiences have been valued that have shown to be positive, such as the regional public health centres. Public health, disease prevention and health promotion have been referred to an alternative plan within the framework of the National Health Service. With regard to the proposed law, we find it inappropriate that the local level is the grouping of health centres or that of the local health unit, which in many regions of the country means putting the basic level at the district level. Another problem is the absence of a public health career, as already existed, since health delegates are appointed in a service committee. It was the devaluation of careers that contributed to the shortage of professionals. The new legislation persists in the mistake. The proposal opens the door for the National Vaccination Programme to be delivered to the private sector and this program is too serious to taste the pressure of private interests. A public health policy must, among others, strengthen the public health structures of proximity, organizing them on a conciliatory basis. It is essential to strengthen professionals in the field of public health through the urgent development of a strengthening of training in the speciality of public health. It is important to develop an integrated and effective computer system as a fundamental tool for monitoring the state of health and supporting the foundations of public health policies. National health plans and programmes should be determinants of action and not merely addressed with good intentions and should include funding and evaluation of results. Planning cannot be disconnected from policy development. These and other proposals were already submitted by the CFP in 2015. at that time, they were rejected, but had the favorable vote of the PS. They could now be realized and therefore we must not miss this opportunity and we will intervene in the field of expertise to make this happen. The question remains, Mr Secretary of State : is the Ministry available to accept amendments to your proposal to strengthen and enhance public health? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u92	Mr Moisés Ferreira, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u93	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: It is obvious that legislative consolidation is not just important, but the proposal for a law on public health cannot be the only one. Actually, I don't think that's all. The spirit of this proposal is not just that of legislative consolidation. Indeed, much further progress needs to be made, particularly in the field of expertise, so that it is much more robust, effective and applicable in reality and in practice. Mr. Secretary of State stated some objectives for this bill: the protection and promotion of health, the prevention of the disease, the epidemiological surveillance of health risks. We agree with all these objectives, but we need to understand how best we can achieve them, because we believe that in many of them this bill is still insufficient. It is obvious that we agree with the need for a commitment in the prevention of the disease and in the promotion of health, that we have a population with more and better life expectancy, with a life free of disease. That is why it is important — and we note — the inclusion and forecasting of local health plans, for example, that they can probably be more robust and strengthened in the proposed law itself. I believe that it would still be important to assign to health authorities the health provision of citizens, something that is not in this bill, and it should be. In fact, this supply would be a transposition of what many delegates and public health authorities already do in reality. I think that could be here too. There are also other issues which, certainly in the field of expertise, will be more detailed, but I would like to refer them to the Secretary of State already. We consider the responsibility of monitoring and auditing health institutions to be positive in order to improve the provision of health care to the population. however, the fact that the health authority and public health services are integrated into the structure of ARS (Regional Health Administration ) or ACES ( health centres groupings) may create some independence problems in relation to the institutions themselves that will then monitor. It was important that, in the field of expertise, we should also reflect on this. Other issues that have already been raised relate to the ratios of professionals, i.e. the fact that the proposed law provides for the existence of professional ratios to ensure that public health is not only a bill, or then a law in the Journal of the Republic, but that it actually has a body of professionals to apply it in reality. All this to say that the Left Block hopes that, in the discussion in the specialty, there is a long and mature process with the hearing of various entities and various public health specialists to change the bill. from the Socialist Party, we realize that this is also the intention, but I ask the Government what openness has for this discussion in the field of specialty and to make the necessary amendments to the bill. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u94	Mrs. Members, the general discussion of Bill No 49 / XIII ( 2 ) was concluded. a ), we will continue our agenda with the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 364 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amend Law No 37 / 81 ( Nationality Law ) ( PSD ) and 390 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Alter the Law of Nationality, approved by Law No 37 / 81 of 3 October, and the Regulation on the Emolumentary of Registers and Notariado, approved by Decree-Law No 322 -A / 2001 of 14 December ( BE ). To present the PSD bill, Mr. José Cesario has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u95	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In times when there is much talk of tolerance and justice, we hope that this House will be able to respond positively to the wishes of thousands of citizens who, a little around the world, struggle daily for the simple right to be Portuguese, as their grandparents or their spouses. First of all, the acquisition of Portuguese nationality by married citizens or living in de facto union with Portuguese is usually an absolutely dramatic and desperate process in the face of the morbidity and extreme bureaucracy of our administration. Moreover, in the face of the enormous costs of such a process, it even becomes an act that is only accessible to those who have significant financial means, which prevents all citizens from resorting to more modest resources. This is, therefore, an unfair and absolutely unacceptable process of social inequalities in the times that run for those who advocate the most basic principles of justice. We are therefore defending its simplification today, exempting the intervention of the Public Prosecutor's Office in this process. Secondly, today we have recovered an old proposal on the allocation of nationality to the grandchildren of national citizens. As in 2015, we believe that this process should not be conditioned by incomprehensible bureaucratic obstacles that are difficult to demonstrate with objectivity, such as the connection to national territory. The fact that these conditions have not been regulated for another year is the reason why we have eliminated them. For us, it is very clear that the Portuguese grandchildren have all the conditions to share our nationality with us. They are as Portuguese as any one who sits in this plenary. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u96	We know how great it is to do justice to so many who await an answer from this Parliament. Therefore, because the aim of this initiative is to achieve effective and positive changes in the lives of the people we serve, putting on the side any political and demagogic logic, we admit to our respective committee of this project in order to exhaust all the hypotheses of finding the best solutions to the problems we have identified in dialogue with all other political forces. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u97	To present the bill of the Left Block, Mr. José Manuel Pureza has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u98	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : on the other side of the Atlantic come - grotesque signs from a time when nationality is being used to deprive citizens and citizens of basic rights and to conduct policies of xenophobic terror. Well, in view of this, what we have seen here is that nationality in Portugal is exactly the opposite: a privileged, strong instrument of recognition of rights in which an effective estimate of the wealth of the plural and cosmopolitan societies is expressed. Until 1981, there was a principle in Portugal: those born in Portugal had Portuguese nationality. From that year on, there was a change in the legal regime: the children of foreigners born in Portugal became the nationality of their parents, i.e., they were born in Portugal. The consequence of this amendment is thousands of young people and, however, many adults are forced to have the nationality of a country that is not really their own, with which they do not have a minimally consistent relationship, forced by law to have a nationality without root and to be second-born citizens in our country, where they have roots. These people, in order to acquire the nationality of the country where they always lived, where they grew, where they studied, where they established social and affective ties, have to display a certificate of use in Portuguese for two years, the criminal registration of the country of origin of their parents and pay between 175 € and 250 €. But already for people who benefit from visasgold, it is enough that they come to Portugal seven days a year and, after six years of legal residence, they can do the proof of Portuguese to obtain nationality. Our proposal is therefore simple, ladies and gentlemen. Members: that the children of foreigners born in Portuguese territory have Portuguese nationality. We like and are very proud to be the country of Emilia and Ivan, Mamadú and Rosa, Samira and António, Francisco and Xandra, Gelson and Inês! We fight so that, having all the same bond with Portugal, everyone can be Portuguese. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u99	Mr António Filipe, on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u100	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are discussing two bills that are in the antipods of each other. We will then begin according to the order of entry to the Bureau, by the PSD bill. We have already had an opportunity in the previous legislature to express our opposition to this type of solution. What are we talking about? We are talking about Portuguese citizens who emigrated to other countries, who had their children in other countries and who did not attribute them Portuguese nationality when they could have done so. Therefore, the children of these citizens who, according to Portuguese law, would be Portuguese of origin, were not, for the simple reason that their parents preferred to assign them another nationality. Well, now that they have grandchildren and that Portugal is a country of the European Union has come to them all patriotism at the top and they want to give their grandchildren, per jump, what they did not want to give to their children. So it is appropriate to ask where Portugueseism was when they did not want to attribute Portuguese nationality to their children and could have done it! But what is most absurd in this solution is that one seeks to give a nationality originating in something that is not originating. In other words, originating nationality is that of origin, there can be no originating nationality with retroactive effect. For this there is naturalization! But you do not want the solution of naturalization for the simple reason that you want to cover people who have no connection to the national community. That is why, in the previous legislature, the Socialist Party gave the PSD the benevolence of adopting legislation in this sense, saying that there was a need for some connection to the national community. That is what you now want to eliminate, i.e. to attribute Portuguese nationality to those who do not have the conditions to request it by naturalization. Because they have no conditions at all, you want to give them more! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a distortion to the rules governing the allocation of Portuguese nationality, to which we think it should not be instigated. We must not turn the acquisition of Portuguese nationality into a kind of nationality of convenience, i.e. 'because we want to be Portuguese'! They won't count on us for that solution. The left block bill has a generous principle. We can say that we share the principle that there must be an extension of the jus soli principle in Portuguese nationality legislation. We consider, however, that the terms used in the bill of the Left Block go far too far about it. It seems to us that, in fact, the principle of jus soli should be extended and that it should be helped to solve another problem, which is from the past. These are people who were born in Portugal and who did not acquire Portuguese nationality, were not originally assigned to them under the law and did not obtain it by naturalization, due to bureaucratic obstacles. We believe that this should be effectively resolved, because we believe that people who were born and raised in Portugal, who have Portugal as their country, must be able to be Portuguese. That must be solved. But from that point of view that any citizen born in Portugal, even if accidentally, acquires the original Portuguese nationality, it seems to us that it is going too far and that there must be some better criterion in this matter. In other words, for an extension of jus soli they will count on us, but an unrestricted extension of that principle wants to seem to us that it is a solution that is not very thoughtful and that should be better balanced from the point of view of the need to extend its application. from our point of view, the jus soli principle is still too limited. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u101	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, from the PS, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The debate that convenes us leads us to two different ways and to two different elements of the Nationality Law, but in relation to both of them I stress that an important factor, although it is not a single and absolute value, is that of the stability of legislative acts. The draft law that the PSD presents today, in which it recovers the legislative initiative it presented in the past legislature and which was adopted only by means of a correction that would ensure that there are effective links to the national community, reopens a debate that we had very recently and for which it seems to me that this Parliament has managed to build a relatively balanced solution to safeguard the circumstances of those who, with a legitimate expectation, would like to access Portuguese nationality, but without losing sight that the Law of Nationality cannot merely sit in the punctual will, without demonstrating the existence of a sufficiently dense and clear substrate of connection with the national community. In addition, the PSD also brings us another aspect, that is, new, which may be the subject of discussion and improvement, which concerns the possibility of dispensation of opposition in the circumstances of marriage or de facto union. But even there we have some reservations and doubts as to the effectiveness and the model on which the Public Prosecutor may eventually become dispensed. These are matters for which there is not yet enough clarification to allow us to say with all certainty that we can follow it, but at least it deserves some discussion and attention. On the other hand, we have the legislative initiative of the Left Block. I think we can all consensually say that the asylum and immigration policies of Portugal must have been proud of us for many years. We are repeatedly well classified in the rankings that look and approve for the reception materials of the migrant population and the exiled population, and it is also a good demonstration that there is effective openness of this country to the borders and other peoples with us who come to share their lives and their destinations. But from there we do not necessarily withdraw that, in the way proposed, we can follow the Left Block by the way it enshrines, in a completely open way, jussoli, until it can pose significant risks to migrants themselves. This is because, often, jus soli is that it may be the source of solutions that lead to migration, I say not forced, but driven by the desire to be born in a given territory, because they know that, without any other criterion, there is room for the acquisition of nationality. At the same time, for this reason—because there are also risks and the Law of Nationality must have this caution—, the automatic and immediate acquisition of nationality by the effect of marriage, without a weighting that allows the duration of this marriage and the effective connection to the national community, also seems to us to be worthy of greater attention, and that the family unit and the presence of the other members of the family is guaranteed through the law that ensures the title of residence and that everyone can live with us in a completely legal way. I would also say that, for the purpose of granting nationality, it is still risky to exempt from the legal presence in Portugal those who are not in a regular manner, at least for a period of six years. Because even in this case, looking at the multiple capacities and opportunities, which the Portuguese law offers today, of regularization of those who share their destinations with us, is strange—and rare, even — we find a situation in which this has not happened and still proceeds to the direct allocation of nationality, without even having previously existed a valid residence title under Portuguese law. however, and to conclude, the questions raised at the level of administrative costs and even the financial costs of these processes are indeed worthy of attention and concern. So it seems to us that there is room for weighting here...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u103	But you have less room to talk about, sir. You're gonna have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u104	I was going to finish, Madam President, already on the final line. It also seems to us that, at this same point, there must be some weighting to distinguish what is the process of regularization or of making a citizen card and the process a little more complex, which may occur in matters of naturalization. As I say, in these points we are also available for dialogue and for a positive construction. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Madam President. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u105	Mr Telmo Correia, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u106	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This discussion, not being new, is of course always of the greatest importance. It is, moreover, difficult for a parliament to find a theme, a reason, a foundation that is more important than discussing who is or can be Portuguese. Therefore, the question of nationality is obviously a central issue and of greater importance. For this reason, these questions can be discussed with good intentions, with good principles or even with heart arguments, but these arguments are not enough for the decisions we have to make. That is, the decision has to be thought, rational and thought. Even today, in news on this matter, it is said that Parliament will discuss projects that extend the possibility of being Portuguese. Let's think about this and these same projects. In relation to the PSD, the opposition or not in the circumstances of marriage or de facto union may merit reflection. We are available for this reflection, even if it does not seem to us to be an essential or fundamental change. With regard to the second proposal that the PSD does, as I said, and well, Mr António Filipe, this matter was discussed not long ago and what we said when this discussion took place was that, in our perspective, seconded later by the Socialist Party, we could attribute nationality to Portuguese grandchildren, but for us it was a fundamental requirement to demonstrate the effective connection of these Portuguese grandchildren to the national community. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u107	It was, moreover, a requirement and a wording in which we participate. Soon thereafter, we will abandon the conclusion that we had reached in work and in negotiations — and even with a broad arc, which at the time involved the Socialist Party itself — obviously seems to us an unnecessary retreat. What we would have to do was, when much, regulate the demonstration of this effective link to the national community, through the field of language, from the connection to Portugal, from the visit to the national territory. We would have to go around and not go back because, finally, nationality, when we are in a second or third generation, in which previous generations had no interest in Portuguese nationality, obviously has to be seen with some caution.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u108	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u109	As far as the proposal of the Left Block is concerned, even if it can be supported, as Mr. José Manuel Pureza did, with some sensitivity and some heart, it is appropriate that we realize that we consider very important risks. Moreover, in this matter, so as not to mention myself and not to reproduce the speech I made a few months ago, I will mention another Member who spoke on this very subject and whose words, in my opinion, are wise.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u110	Short words. You know, but brief, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u111	Madam President, these are very brief words of the then Mr. Pedro Silva Pereira. He then said: « The project of the Left Block is all an invitation to illegal and clandestine immigration».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u112	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u113	That is to say, allowing children, daughters, for example, an illegal immigrant — despite the fact that they are, in fact, illegal in Portugal — to be automatically Portuguese is all a mistake. We must stimulate legal immigration rather than illegal immigration. And at the same time as we talk about the risks of populism, we should not be irresponsible, because, being irresponsible, we give foundation to populisms that are going to be born there. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u114	Mr José Manuel Pureza, from the Left Block, spoke again for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u115	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Very briefly, I would like to say that Mr Telmo Correia has made a contradiction — we knew, indeed, other political actors — between decisions of the heart and the reason. To this I counter the need for decisions of justice, because that is what we are talking about, in fact. That is to say, this is a battle that has become increasingly essential, in the times of so much lead that we are living in this very matter. All human rights defenders are called on to take a stand on this issue, and that is what we want to do. Finally, Madam President, I very much welcome the acceptance of principle which has been placed by several benches. in this sense, we have every interest in this proposal to make its way into the specialty and we will create conditions for it to be so. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u116	To conclude this debate, you have the floor for an intervention, Mr Carlos Pascoa, from the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u117	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is a study by the University of Toronto in Canada that proves that the true connection of diaspora with Portugal is made by Portuguese grandchildren abroad. Prof. Manuela Marujo conducted her interviews with the various grandchildren and was surprised that at first they referred exclusively to their grandparents and not to their parents. It is not today that we, who walk through the diaspora, confirm that. It is a reality that grandchildren consider themselves more Portuguese, defend Portugal, defend tradition and are true ambassadors in the economic, political, legal and arts areas. In fact, in Portugal we consider it a great Lusodescendant when we find it in a high position in the United States of America, for example. That is why we do not give up giving us an opportunity to balance the situation of the grandchildren. If we have two grandchildren of Portuguese born abroad, descendants of the same grandfather, one may have the nationality of origin because his father asked for it and the other cannot have it because his father was prevented from obtaining double nationality. [[Meanwhile, Vice-President José Manuel Pureza was re-chaired.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u118	Mr. Deputies, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u119	I will finish, Mr. President. It is very important to say that nationality is attributed to the grandson because it was granted to the father, but it cannot be compared with a case where the father was a public official or something like that, because until the 1990s dual nationality was prohibited and no one, living in Argentina, Brazil or Uruguay, would no longer have the nationality of the country of birth to have Portuguese nationality. So we have to correct that failure. Mr President, I shall conclude by saying that we count on the approval of our bill, because the diaspora deserves that. The Socialist Party presented, in the last debate, annexes to the law, but the Minister of Justice has been with this draft in the drawer for a year and does not regulate it. This is simply to replace that failure. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u120	Mrs. Members, the discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 364 and 390 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), we will move on to the sixth and last item of our agenda, which consists in the assessment of draft resolutions 430 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the implementation of free access to national museums and monuments for young people up to 30 years, during weekends and holidays ( PS ), 636 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take the necessary measures to promote access of all citizens to national museums and monuments, especially for people up to 35 years of age, establishing free access to weekends, holidays and Wednesdays and extending the use of new information technologies ( CDS-PP ) and 640/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Free access to national museums, national monuments and other entities with public participation ( BE ). To present the draft resolution of the PS, Mr. Diogo León, of the Socialist Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u121	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group today presents a draft resolution which aims to politically reaffirm our desire to make free entry into national museums and monuments at weekends and holidays for young people up to 30 years of age during this legislature and, more specifically, already during the next year of 2018. This objective is the palpable translation of a transversal policy that better prepares new generations. It is one of the most relevant and far-reaching opportunities that the country can offer to its youth in the field of culture. The freeness of doors, freedom, sharing—without charges— of their entry into the vast national cultural heritage will fulfil the most diverse purposes, which can pass through leisure, learning and passion for knowledge, individual improvement, development of taste and aesthetics or simply free use of these privileged spaces of our Portuguese, luxophone, European and universal culture, which does not require any particular motivation other than that of the individual will of each young citizen to go and venture. For all young people up to 30 years the implementation of this measure will represent a more democratic, more permanent, fairer and inclusive access to cultural goods. Well cultural, these museums and national monuments, which represent the richness of our identity and reflect the diversity of this unique heritage, some of which is classified as a world heritage by UNESCO. We have museums and monuments for all public, areas of knowledge and interests. They're places of memory alive. These are spaces where we can observe the materialization of academic knowledge, including periods, periods, techniques, traditions, trends and styles. And they are also the registration site of our popular and secular customs, in domains as vast as our History, arts and science. Museums and monuments are not simply reduced to windows for the past and for our history, they are not static repositories, nor are they mere dwellings of last and eternal rest of national treasures. They are increasingly dynamic institutions, more committed to involving their collections, their exhibitions and their studies in harmony or confrontation with the contemporary and daily universe, to enable the understanding of the present through the study and interpretation of the past. And they remind us that we need to know the « before», in order to dream of the « after », that we must dream of the « after », so that, with genius, boldness and knowledge, we can reach the next step and then we can understand that the « impossible», which was the future, has become, with persistence, experimentation and work at present. This is one of the central lessons of history in the search for knowledge. A startling word for right-winging on this subject, particularly with regard to the CDS. In 2011, they were responsible for restricting and reducing free admissions to national museums, conditioning them on the first Sundays of each month. Now, they appear to be very generous in the expansion of this same gratuity. But citizens know that your credibility is in deficit, when you do something in the government and defend the opposite. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this initiative has the merit of strengthening what is already the intention of the Government, because I remember the House that is part of the 21st Constitutional Government Programme. by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, we reject any economic approach to this specific issue. It is that the investment is clear and the most positive balance: it is for the well-being, qualification and access to the culture of the new generations. It is an opportunity for youth, which, well implemented and well disseminated, the country cannot lose. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u122	To present the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, you have the floor of Mrs Teresa Caeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u123	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would like to make three statements in this presentation of the draft resolution of the CDS which recommends to the Government that it adopt the measures necessary to encourage and encourage the access of all citizens to national museums and monuments, especially for people up to 35 years old, establishing free access, weekends and holidays and Wednesdays and extending the use of new information technologies. It has always been very clear to the CDS that access to culture is an inalienable axis of the affirmation of our identity. It is also an undeniable factor of social cohesion. And it is certainly — and perhaps, above all — a development factor for a whole society. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have no doubt that a society with more access to culture, with more use of culture, is a better society. The Government, in two consecutive budgets, has already made many promises, but has very few results. In particular — and we should not forget — the proposals contained in successive electoral programmes, both from the Socialist Party and from the left-wing parties that support this government, in order to make demands, when they were in opposition, of 1% of GDP in the budget of culture, and so far we have 0, 1 %. There is therefore a difference in what you have demanded for years! [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u124	But in the face of this inertia and this rejection of the past, the CDS responds with the following proposal: young people play a key role, either from the perspective of transversal policies for youth, or from the point of view of the formation of new audiences, or from the point of view of the qualification of our society. Secondly, access to museums is an important element for promoting culture, for the use of culture and for the creation of culture. The State budget for 2017 already contains the commitment to adopt measures to, and I will quote, the « replacement of free entry into national museums and monuments ». You have repeatedly forgotten that, when the CDS and PSD were in government, they did so in circumstances of special difficulty, of special restraint and of special demands before our creditors, those who lent us money, so that Portugal would not go bankrupt. It is good that you do not forget this reality.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u125	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u126	Now, the CDS agrees with this constant proposal of the State Budget, but we insist that, of course, we have mistrust of the Socialist Party's promises. And you know why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? Because the State budget for 2016, which came into force over a year ago, is already proposed to restore this gratuity. So they had a year to implement this freeness and they didn't. And now they come to renew, as often happens, the same promises, Budget after Budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u127	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u128	Therefore, the CDS advances with great mistrust. Thirdly, by agreeing with the initiative, we believe that we should go further. And further away, how? Ensuring this freeness for young people up to 35 years, on weekends and holidays, up to 14 hours, and on Wednesdays, all day long. This is because, as we know, the student population has on that day a much more relieved school load. We also understand that, in addition to the articulation with municipalities, in addition to integrated programs for pre-school education, compulsory education and also higher education, the use of digital audio-guide mechanisms and other mobile applications to national museums and monuments should be extended, especially young people, benefit from these new technologies. Mr President, thanking you for your tolerance, I will conclude by saying that the CDS is very committed to the adoption of this draft resolution and hopes that these measures will finally be implemented, so that we will not remain, year after year, and Budget after Budget, waiting for that to happen. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u129	To present the draft resolution of BE, Mr Jorge Campos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We see with good eye the proposal put forward by the Socialist Party, although it seems to us that perhaps he could have gone a little further. In any case, allow me some considerations. Free access to national museums and monuments and other entities with public participation for certain segments of the population is not only an imperative of the democratization of culture; it is also, and fundamentally, a measure for cultural literature, indispensable to man's relationship with the world. When we talk about artistic literature, for example, we are talking about a set of skills resulting from the acquisition of knowledge and languages, which promote a closer, ludicrous and enlightened relationship with the different arts. The aesthetic experience, the domain of your codes leads to what Roland Barthes called Text Pleasure. But this relationship of man with the art and, in a more comprehensive way, with the culture is not exhausted in the individual experience of the fruit. Go further: induce reflection, encourage action, let go of imagination. Which means we are facing a powerful tool of democracy. Unfortunately, like what is happening in many other countries, today we have a high degree of cultural iliteracy. The causes are diverse. They are certainly not strange the effects of the crisis, the systematic subordination of culture and a set of erratic measures, the consequences of which last in time. in the recent past, examples are the arbitrary reduction of staff frameworks, meaningless mergers that have ended up limiting the functioning of structures and, above all, a demanding lack of thought and strategic vision regarding cultural policies. Now, promoting cultural literature is due to the recognition of what is common heritage and heritage, a kind of deep language, which gives access to identity. From this legacy, whose preservation is a daily task, it is necessary to draw a path of dynamic convergences. Through it, structures and creators, equipment and cultural agents pass, in order to enhance, in the context of contemporaryity, the formation, creation and dissemination that, by promoting cultural literature, revitalizes the citizen literature. The draft resolution of the Left Block goes in this direction. We therefore believe that the Government should guarantee and extend the criteria for free access to these cultural equipment, whether public or private with State participation. We want to open doors. in this sense, it is therefore necessary to apply the constant measure of the State Budget for 2017, whose aim is to restore the free access to all national museums and monuments, to Sundays and holidays, until 14 hours. We want younger in the museums. They are the starting point for the creation of new audiences and museums are informal learning spaces that should be properly cost-effective. We also suggest a national campaign involving schools, municipalities and Ministries of Culture and Education in order to encourage the participation of students in the cultural spaces of their municipality, district or region.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u131	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u132	I will finish, Mr. President. We make these proposals with full awareness that the sum of the convergences of means in the provision of public services of culture far exceeds the sum of the parties by its symbolic nature. Why? Because it is ultimately about making more democracy. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u133	Mr Simon Ribeiro of the PSD now has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: When we discuss in this House matters relating to youth policy, there is, of course, a whole set of principles which I must set out on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group. If Mr President prefers, it is understood as a sort of record of interest or historical heritage that the PSD has in relation to these matters. It is, of course, the defence that the PSD Parliamentary Group makes of cross-cutting with regard to youth policies in our country. We have been manifestly against, we are manifestly against and will always be against what, for the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, seems of lesser importance, but it is not for us, that it is the cantoning of youth policies which is the Ministry of Education, because in our view this is a heritage in which, by obligation of governments, there must be a responsible with high capacities in government and with powers restricted to it that can follow all policies in the various pastures that concern what it has to do with the sustainability of the next generations. A second record of interests, Mr President, is as follows: for the PSD, science, knowledge and, above all, access to culture is the ideal basis and is one of the fundamental pillars of the construction of a higher society, richer and with greater tools to fight for its own future. But in this regard, and on the subject which we are bringing here today, Mr President, I would like to stress what has been mentioned here today, and very well, by Mrs Teresa Caeiro, which is the following: that the State Budget for 2017, which is a Budget of the left-wing parliamentary, as we know, plans to adopt measures to restore the free entry into national museums and monuments to Sundays until 14 hours. But the truth is, until today, what we have seen concrete about this, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it's zero. I should therefore like to point out three points here. First point: to highlight what was a progressive evolution of the number of visitors to museums and monuments from 2011 to the years 2014 and 2015, despite the negative and catastrophic discourse of the left in Portugal and this House, which said that we dismantled and consequently disinvested in access to culture in Portugal. In fact, I remember one of the PSD/CDS measures that had to do with, for example, the introduction of a special ticket that addressed, in particular, numerous families. Second: as leader of a youth party, I commend the one who is the performance or position of the Socialist Party bench and, above all, of the young members of the Socialist Party, who here make a sort of push of ears to the government. I, in your place, would do exactly the same, ladies. Ladies and gentlemen! The government has been inert, has been non-existent in terms of youth policies in Portugal. It is good for the Socialist Youth to do well for the young Members of the Socialist Party to take the lead and the place that would be for the government by imposing here what will be the first measure of this legislation — in our opinion, it will be adopted and it will not be for us — as far as youth policies in Portugal are concerned.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u135	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u136	Finally, Mr President, I would obviously like to welcome the initiative that the CDS-PP brings here. In addition to the extension of age being much more equitable and comprehensive than the proposal by other banks, this is, moreover, a much more innovative proposal, because it introduces the criterion of the use of new technologies, of greater interaction of young people with art and culture. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude — now yes — I would like to say that the PSD Parliamentary Group is and will always be available to contribute to youth policies, be they education, employment, higher education, but is not available to compact with a non-existent government of which the little we know about youth matters are controversial over controversy. [[Congrats from the PSD and the Member of the CDS-PP Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u137	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The culture of a country is a central element in its identity, in its developmental perspective and in the affirmation of the historical protagonist of its people. The path between the workers and the people and all the culture, in the current framework, is due to the inalienable responsibility of the State and central administration and to the fulfilment of the constitutional right to cultural use. in this sense, the PCP presented a proposal at the headquarters of the State Budget for 2017 to extend the free access to culture. It is now necessary for the law to be fulfilled — it should already be from 1 January — and that the application of the measure should begin as soon as possible and, if necessary, extend the scope of the citizens concerned beyond the residents in national territory.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u139	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u140	We note that two of the projects discussed here include, precisely, mention of the need for compliance with what was approved by the CFP proposal.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u141	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u142	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is nothing like an alleged excess of gratuity with regard to museums. in this chapter, we are even below the European average, even very below, if we include cases such as the United Kingdom, where it was taken more than a decade ago in 2001 the decision to make all national museums free of charge. following this measure, the number of visitors to museums in the United Kingdom increased by 51 % by 10 years. The number of children under 16 who visited the museums has been shot, and the public has expanded, becoming more comprehensive and inclusive, for example, at the level of visitors from economically disadvantaged areas and ethnic minorities.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u143	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u144	It was created the habit of going to the museum regularly and not once by party. According to data from the European Group of Statistics on Museums and Eurostat, the tickets of this sector in our country are among the most expensive in Europe, taking into account the parity of purchasing power. It is also for this, but not only, that you should refer the free visits to one Sunday a month, continuing the option—yes! — the PSD and the CDS at the time of their passage by the last government, which, by political option on the right, raised the attack pact even further than the ECB ( European Central Bank ), the European Union and the IMF ( International Monetary Fund ) wanted to go, too, to remember this, could only compromise the constitutional right of cultural profit. The access and experience of the fruits were compromised and the essential habit of frequency and knowledge of our museums and monuments would not develop. In addition, according to data from the INE ( National Institute of Statistics ) on cultural statistics relating to 2015 and data from DGPC ( Directorate-General for Cultural Heritage ) for 2016, we can clearly observe that the percentage of national visitors has fallen and that in the case of national museums, this is the first time since there are statistics in this area that there have been more foreign visitors than national, phenomena that are not explained only by the increase in foreign tourism. Together with the drop in the school audience, these are issues that deserve reflection and initiative. [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u145	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the defence of everyone's right to all culture implies rejection of a policy that condemns those who, being overwhelmingly majority, see their cultural use reduced to that small part of the culture that the ruling class is intended for them. It is therefore of the utmost importance to extend the system of free access to national museums and monuments, as the CFP proposes and defends. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u146	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have thus concluded the discussion of draft resolutions Nos 430 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) and 636 and 640 / XIII ( 2. (a) and, with it, the order of business. Before closing the session, I ask Secretary Emília Santos to report on the entry into the Bureau of a bill. Please, Secretary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u147	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform you that you have entered the Bureau and was admitted by Mr. President, Bill No. 392 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amend the Code of the Tax on the Income of Single Persons, approved by Decree-Law No 442 -A / 88 of 30 November, creating the obligation of annual information on the possibility of allocating 0, 5 % of the IRS to religious institutions, private institutions of social solidarity or public utility ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 5. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-02-02.u148	Thank you very much, Secretary. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I have to announce tomorrow's agenda, beginning at 10 a.m. of the first point is the general discussion of Bill No 51 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Change the regime for freezing and losing crime instruments and products in the European Union, transposing Directive 2014 / 42 / EU. in the second point, draft resolution No 560 / XIII ( 2 ) will be discussed. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the linkage of teachers hired in accordance with Directive 1999 / 70 / EC(E), together with draft law No 278 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Proposals for a scheme for the linkage of teachers in the career ( CFP ). The third point is followed by the general debate of draft law No 388 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Removal of the portarium which increased the tax on petroleum products ( CDS-PP ). of the fourth point is the joint discussion of draft resolutions 171 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Determines the maintenance of the New Bank in the public sphere, ensuring its ownership and public management at the service of the interests of the people and the country ( PCP ) and 641 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — by maintaining the ownership of the New Bank in the public sphere ( BE ). in the fifth point, the projects of lein.o 12 / XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Reduction of packaging waste ( The Greens) and 389 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Determines the legal regime for the use of packaging provided on commercial surfaces ( PCP ), together with draft resolution No 638 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government work towards reducing the number of plastic packagings, thus promoting the use of other more environmentally friendly materials (NAPs). Finally, there will be a vote at 12 noon. To all and to all I wish the continuation of a good afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 45 minutes.]]
