ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, I declare open the session. [[It was 10 hours and 7 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. Before we begin the agenda, I ask Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro to read the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u2	Mr. President and Mr. Members have entered the Bureau and the following initiatives have been admitted: projects of lein.o 624 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the Decree-Law No 349 / 98 of 11 November and Law No 153 / 2015 of 14 September 2015 in the context of property assessments ( PS ), 625 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — To strengthen the regulation of the assessment of the appropriate nature of operations relating to financial instruments ( PS ), 626 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — To strengthen the regulation of the codes of conduct of credit institutions ( PS ), 627 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The purpose of strengthening the regulation for consultants for autonomous investments and partners of financial intermediaries engaged in investment consulting ( PS ), 628 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — In order to strengthen the regulation of credit granting by credit institutions to qualified equity holders ( PS ), 629 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — To strengthen the regulation on contractual and periodic reporting obligations to be provided to investors in financial instruments ( PS ), 630 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — To strengthen the regulation of the obligations of credit institutions in the marketing of deposits and credit products ( PS ), 631 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — To strengthen the regulation on private securities offers ( PS ), 632 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — To strengthen the regulation of the internal organisation of financial intermediaries ( PS ), 633 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Visa to strengthen the supervisory powers of the Banco de Portugal ( PS ), 634 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — To strengthen the regulation of remuneration of employees of financial intermediaries and credit institutions ( PS ) and 637 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the minimum banking services regime, making it more appropriate to the needs of banking clients ( PCP ) ; and draft resolution No 1080 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the automation of the allocation of the minimum service account to bank clients ( BE ). All these initiatives are down to 5. the Commission. In terms of file, that is all, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we will enter the first item on the agenda with an up-to-date discussion, by marking the PSD, under Article 72. the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic on the political responsibility arising from the report of the Independent Technical Commission on the speedy analysis and clearance of the facts concerning the fires that occurred in Pedrogão Grande, Castanheira de Pera, Ansião, Alvaiázere, Figueiró dos Vinhos, Arganil, Gois, Penela, Pampilhosa da Serra, Oleiros and Sertã between 17 and 24 June 2017. To open the debate, Mr Luís Marques Guedes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u4	Mr. President, Ms. Minister of Internal Administration, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mrs and Mrs. Members: The outcome of the facts independently and exempts us from this report is the first act of justice that finally begins to be done to the families of the victims of this tragedy. It is true that it is not, in our view, the repair of the debt that the State has towards the families of the victims, but it is a huge contribution to the truth and the clarification which, inexplicably, has been missed out on them. People and communities, who suffered so hard with the unimaginable that day, have the indisputable right to be clarified and to know the truth of the facts that they have forever changed their lives. For its detail, exemption and depth, the work carried out by the Independent Technical Commission is certainly a light of hope, hope which contrasts at all with the sad, revolting and inconspicuous spectacle that was the mutual point of view and guilt in which public entities and agents involved were removed and which the country, astonished, witnessed in the weeks that followed that calamity. [[PSD applause.]] Known to this report, the time of the « roll law», the silence, the indignity, the « shake the water from the hood » was exhausted. There is no longer room for delaying or fleeing the assumption of responsibilities, which are evident, and for them to have the hombrety to extract the proper consequences. Without further apologies this is an imperative and an obligation which no longer can be postponed by the State, a State which, through its agents, public authorities and its officials, has failed, has not met its obligations to the citizens. And you have failed — you tell us this report — not in detail or by chance. No, Mrs. Minister and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen! It was the choices, the choices, their disrespect for good practices and consolidated standards, their disregard, their lack of leadership, when it was more precise, that boosted the catastrophe that was overthrown and victimized those people and their communities. [[PSD applause.]] All of this is purely reported and documented in the report of the Independent Technical Commission, the report whose reading, in some of its excerpts, makes us painfully relive a perfect film of terror. What should now mobilize us unreservedly is humility in assuming responsibilities, whether operational, command or political, and the effective solidarity in repair that is due to the victims. It is up to the Prime Minister, as the last responsible, to determine the extent and the necessary consequences of these responsibilities, as it has been for one month already due and, now, indisputable, to all whom he has failed, to whom he has apologized on behalf of the State. [[PSD applause.]] But it is within the competence of this House to legislate so that proper reparation becomes a reality for the victims. For calculus or for lack of vision, more than three months have already been lost. It is not ethically acceptable to continue to push with the belly the compensating process, especially after knowing this Report and the clarity of its accountability for the actions of State officials. We will therefore demand that the plenary vote on the articles which, before this clear statement of responsibility to the public authorities, the majority decided to reject within the Commission. It is an amendment that will be a first political consequence that this report and its content have become imperative. We must know how to assume it as an obligation, as an obligation of the State which can only act as a good person. [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u5	Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In June of this year, in the face of the tragedy of the fire of Pedrogão Grande, the Assembly of the Republic, consensually, felt that it was necessary to clarify, obtained in an open and credible manner, having for this purpose designated a technical commission. In the light of yesterday's report, it must be concluded that, regardless of the exceptional nature of the fire of Pedrogão Grande in its violence and in the remarkable dimension, which is identified in the report, regardless of the unpredictability of the meteorological phenomenon, which determined the behavior of the fire in its most critical phase, and regardless of the difficulty of establishing a precise causal link between each of the defects indicated and the loss of life, it is evident that there were operational failures...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u7	He's in charge! There were command failures!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u8	... and that these operational failures, according to the Report, may have competed for the tragic outcome. Some of these failures are related to the options taken at that time, others are related to structural issues of civil protection, many of which, perhaps most of them, because they are structural, they are years old and they do not even result from options taken by the current head of internal administration. It was also consensual that the Assembly of the Republic would debate the conclusions of this report on 27 October in order, in a serious and thoughtful way, to meet what the report itself calls for, i.e. the construction of deep, structural and consensual solutions. That's what the report asks, and that's what the country is asking us to do. This was not the approach adopted by the PSD, which had already drawn its conclusions and which marked this debate still the ink was hot in the printing of the pages of this Report,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ... because the only concern of the PSD, at this moment and in this debate, is that someone is placed in a furrow. [[All right!]] [[PSD MP Hugo Lopes Soares protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u9	Furthermore, it is unbelievable that the hypocrisy of those who, having proposed their own methodology of ascertaining the facts, which the House has approved and which has been followed, now complains about the information being missed or about the time that their methodology has led to the conclusion. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u10	What are you saying? Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u11	For our part, Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, we believe that what the Portuguese require of us is the serious reading that this document deserves and a positive contribution to the response to the identified shortcomings. I welcome the fact that this parliamentary group is available to provide, if necessary, in addition to the initiatives to be determined by the Government. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u12	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u13	Mr President, Mrs Minister, Mr Secretary of State and Mrs. Members, the report of the Independent Technical Commission and the conclusions we can draw are clear: it has failed planning; it has failed control; it has failed action; it has lacked means; it has failed the truth when it is said that all air resources have been allocated to that area; and it has failed until the decency to hide facts and to erase the tape of time. This is a responsibility you cannot escape! [[CDS-PP applause.]] It was not anticipated, it was not anticipated, it did not comply with protocols and command chains. It did not even address key issues relating to civil protection. The government's thesis has fallen. We well remember that, on that very night, they said: "All has been done. It was impossible to do more. It was an inexplicable natural phenomenon. Nothing could be done in the face of the size of this same phenomenon. » No, Mrs. Minister! It was only, and only, incompetence to begin with its incompetence. Therefore, listening to the Socialist Party Member, we have already realized what is being prepared to be the government narrative. By not resigning the Independent Technical Commission, the President of Civil Protection, now appointed by this Government, will be resigned. [[CDS-PP applause.]] But that is not enough, and the CDS will not let that happen, because what has happened is too serious and it is precisely in the name of the respect we owe to the victims and the family of the victims who, Mr. Fernando Rocha Andrade, one thing I assure you: it may be today, it may be on October 27, we will be here for the debate, but we will not let this end in a pure resignation of a civil protection president. It is not permissible for a failed State to fail to fulfil its responsibilities. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u14	For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Cunha has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u15	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretarys of State, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: This report shows us that we are dealing with the repetition of chronic problems and confirms the failure of the successive policies of recent years in the field of prevention and combating forest fires in Portugal. It is the fruit of years of de-investment in this area, a bet on an arrangement of the forest which aims at the easy and fast profit to the detriment of forest protection, sustainable development and the protection of populations. It is the fruit of the accumulated disinterest in the whole civil protection system. The failures that this report points to are therefore accumulated failures over the years. We cannot tackle chronic problems of prevention and firefighting in our country. Over the past 17 years, they have already lost their lives in fires 165 people. This report should therefore serve us to make profound and structural changes in civil protection and forestry in our country. This report has resulted in a tragedy too great and too horrible to serve only as a political weapon and must serve to have the courage and ability to make absolutely necessary and structural changes in this matter. The efficient management of forest fuel has already been reported several times by the Left Block, the non-compliance of the legislation is grueling. The Left Block has also been constantly alerted to the lack of human resources and fire fighting equipment. Firefighters in Portugal represent 0, 16 % of the population; in France, for example, the proportion is 0, 36 %. Firemen's bodies are aged and weakened. The coverage of most of the territory is assured by volunteer firefighters and we know that the readiness for the initial attack ends, therefore, because it is compromised. The Left Block defends the creation and existence of professional teams or joint, municipal or inter-municipal teams to combat fires in a timely manner, as well as the existence, in operations theatres, of fire behaviour specialists who can guide command actions. The commitment to forest prevention and protection and investment in means and equipment, but also in human resources, as well as in their qualification and specialized training, are absolutely essential if we do not want to go through tragedies like this again. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u16	Mr António Filipe has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u17	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. Secretary of State, Mr. Members: The CFP has always said, since the first hour of the disaster we discussed, that there were two things that were fundamental, the first being support for the victims. This was essential, and from that point on, we have, of course, put forward initiatives in this House with that objective. There was nothing missing to the victims of that tragedy by the Portuguese State. [[PSD protests.]] If the gentlemen. Members of the PSD would allow me to use the floor, not continuing with this tone of rage in this parliamentary debate, I would be grateful. [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u18	Mr António Filipe, I would ask you to make a waiting compass to allow there to be conditions to continue. [[Pause.]] Please continue, Mr António Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. So, with the permission of the gentlemen. Members of the PSD, I should like to say that secondly, the CFP has always considered it essential that there be a thorough clarification of what has actually happened and that, from the clarified clarifications, if all the consequences to be withdrawn are removed. This has always been our position and it is our position.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u20	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u21	Therefore we do not devalue this report as we do not devalue everything that has been produced over several years by this House, which has already produced very worthy and deep reports and which, indeed, if they had been followed, either by the current or previous governments, certainly many of the forest fire tragedies occurring in this country might not have had the gravity they had and are having this year. One thing is not to devalue the report, another thing is to instrument the report. And that's what, unfortunately, the PSD is doing. [[PCP applause.]] The PSD is the first to devalue it insofar as it seeks to instrumentalize it with merely political and party objectives. [[PCP applause.]] [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] This is because the PSD, we recorded, said in the beginning that it did not intend to use the tragedy of the Pedrogão Grande fire as a political weapon of fire. Sadly, he hasn't done anything else. [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]] [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] Mr Duarte Marques, you know the esteem I have for you, but now let me talk.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u22	Mr President, please do not enter into dialogue.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u23	Of course, Mr. President. First, it was the list of dead; someone would know a list of dead than the one who was official, as if the tragedy had not already been enormous. Then they were suicides, which, after all, occurred that never happened. Having concluded this report, having marked a debate in this House on this report, having marked the coming of the Minister of Internal Administration, on Tuesday, to the Commission, also at the request of the PSD and the CDS,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u24	It's about another subject.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u25	... where this question can be discussed among others,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u26	But it's for another matter!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u27	...but this question will certainly be on the agenda,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u28	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u29	... and being announced by other sovereign bodies, including the President of the Republic and also by the Council of Ministers, a statement on this, what has the PSD done? It had not yet been humanly possible to read the report, and the PSD was already asking for this current debate about it. This is revealing the objectives. [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]] But, underlining, we'll be here for the debate. We are already reading the report, we have already done a first reading of the report,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u30	Doesn't look like it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u31	... let us examine it deeply and we will be here for the serious and in-depth debate on it, and indeed we believe that the government must take away all the consequences of what has failed and make all necessary corrections. [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u32	This is our goal: to improve things and not to use them as a political weapon against anyone. [[PCP, Os Verdes and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u33	For an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u34	Mr. President, Mrs. Minister, Mrs. State Secretarys of State, Members of Parliament, Members: The first word of the Greens in this debate is solidarity with the families of all the victims of forest fires, in particular this infamous fire of Pedrogão Grande and other surrounding municipalities, and we did not wish to express this solidarity again, of course. The second word is greeting the members of the Independent Technical Commission who have drawn up this report, which we will now have the opportunity to study carefully to discuss it next day 27, in which their discussion in plenary is scheduled. May I then address the honourable Members. PSD Members to say that it would have been prudent to have allowed reading carefully... [[Leu?Oh, my God!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u35	No, I have not read it carefully yet, Mr President, and I assure you that you have not read it carefully either, because yesterday it was not possible to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u36	Exactly! [[Applause from The Greens, the PS and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u37	It was only possible to have done one thing: to take parts of the report, to transfer the report, to withdraw and to decontextualize what is understood. We can all do this in this short time, but the Greens refuse to do so. We want to read the report and other reports which come and combine them with other reports which the Assembly of the Republic has already produced to effectively remove the political consequences that must be removed. This is because there is no doubt about it, and this report reinforces it once again: there is a responsibility of successive governments for an effective de-investment that has been made with regard to our forest. This is the first conclusion that can be removed from reading in the diagonal of the report. There is no doubt, that is what all the other reports have already said and that this is again confirmed. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I must say something that seems to me that has already been said by other Members. Members: Before the report, the PSD had already withdrawn all the conclusions it wanted to draw from the fire of Pedrogon Grande. There's no doubt about it! But the Greens are calling on us to have a serious and serene discussion on the next day 27 about what the report tells us. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, just to highlight an issue which the Greens have repeatedly brought to the Assembly of the Republic and which also seems very prudent to me to have, once and for all, taken into account. We are feeling the effects of climate change and, if we do not adapt, with all our resources, in preventing and also in combating this phenomenon, we will be constantly taking our hands to the head. But the problem is not to take our hands to the head, the problem is the victims that this will provoke, and we have a responsibility and it is time to act accordingly. With regard to operational failures, Mrs Minister, all practical and political consequences must be removed, I repeat. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u38	For an intervention on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister of Internal Administration, Urban Constance de Sousa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u39	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members:...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u40	You're going to resign!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u41	No, I will not ask for your resignation, Mr. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Yesterday, less than 24 hours ago — I repeat, less than 24 hours ago — we received this report. This report produced by an Independent Technical Commission, proposed by the PSD and to which we all, the Executive including, give total support. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, discussing a report with this dimension, with this depth and with this complexity within 24 hours of being known, cannot be a serious debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It cannot be a serious debate and, for me, it is a disgrace to the Independent Technical Commission and also a disrespect to the Members. Members who have marked a debate on this matter for the 27th day. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Therefore, attempting to analyse, draw conclusions within 24 hours of being known, a report with this dimension and this complexity is clearly not serious. [[P.S.'s applause.]] However, Mr. Members, the PSD has demanded my presence here in this Parliament a few hours after having heard of this complex report, which cannot, in fact, be called for a serious debate. To draw conclusions from a report that no one, I repeat, has ever had the opportunity, nor the time, to analyze seriously and carefully, is something to which I refuse. Nor will I draw conclusions from news from social communication based on loose, avous and uncontextualized paragraphs. The only thing we have and we can analyze with some seriousness is the note to the social communication, produced by the Independent Technical Commission itself, and this note clearly shows that there have been failures. First, of course, structural prevention has failed. But this is a failure that is already years old and, therefore, long before this tragedy, this government has proposed and adopted legislative measures in the context of forest reform. It also turns out from this report that the initial attack on fire failed...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u42	After all, they read!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u43	... and that, having not been extinguished quickly, its rapid and uncontrollable growth was much higher than extinction capacity. Also from reading this note we can easily conclude, and it is clear, that most deaths were due to an extreme meteorological phenomenon — the downburst — which led to an absolutely uncontrollable, unpredictable situation and which, I quote, "could not be foreseen by any civil protection service in the world". Another conclusion that we can draw is that they have actually failed preventive civil protection measures, which do not exist in this country. And so long before this tragedy, this government was already working on a preventive civil protection strategy, which has as one of its fundamental points the issue of warning to populations. [[Protests by PSD MP Emídio Guerreiro.]] O Mr... It is also clear that we do not have the capacity to be installed in the field of the knowledge and domain of the behaviour of the fires. It is true that in the past we had something like this capacity which is referred to in the note to the social communication, which were the Groups of Analysis and Use of Fire, the GAUF, teams that ceased to exist because of the determination of the then Minister of Agriculture, Assumption Cristas.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u44	And the forest guards, who was it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u45	Finally, as is also read in that note, the current firefighting systems are not prepared to deal with this type of phenomenon, with a basis for climate change. We must therefore adapt and work for the future. As the Prime Minister said yesterday, this Government is committed to serious consideration of this report, drawing the appropriate conclusions from it. That is why an extraordinary Council of Ministers is already marked for this purpose by 21 October. Then we will draw the necessary conclusions and measures with serenity, but also with seriousness. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u46	Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: I have not been a Member for many years, but I have always been a careful observer of Portuguese political reality. I must say that I have no memory of seeing a minister of any government, in democracy, having such an undignified attitude as that which the Minister has now had here in this Parliament. [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] It is unfortunate that the Minister and this government, particularly the Prime Minister, continue not to address the real issue that is present in all this problem: the State has failed! And the State has failed not only at the operational level, Madam Minister! The Minister says there was no time to read the report, but let me tell you that the PSD, and I am sure that other benches, she has read the report carefully. [[PS and Green Protests.]] What the Minister here has brought to us today shows that, in fact, the Minister has not read the report, but let her tell you, nor does her content matter to you at least. The Minister is constantly speaking next to the real problem, and the real problem is that the fire prevention and control system, contrary to what the Minister and the Secretary of State had assured before the time of fires, was not prepared. The truth is, Mrs. Minister, that the changes of more than two-thirds in civil protection commands ended up ruining the civil protection system,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u48	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u49	... that he was not at least prepared to face these circumstances. The truth is that there was no leadership, there was no coordination and the real question now is that there is not even a democratic humility to assume at least its responsibilities, political responsibilities, which are those that follow technical responsibilities and which today are undeniable. There's no more hide-and-seek game! The report is perennial, the report points to technical failures,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u50	It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u51	... and these technical failures should result, in democracy, in political responsibilities. Take them, Minister!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u53	Take them, Prime Minister! Once and for all, close this issue with dignity! And if they don't have political calibre to take on these responsibilities, at least they apologize to the victims of Pedrogan and all the Portuguese for the terrible service they have rendered to the country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u54	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor, too.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u55	Mr President, Minister for Internal Administration: What the Minister has just done here, in view of the seriousness of the facts, is not acceptable. What you came here to say, basically, is more of the same: "This is a complex matter... It's difficult... It comes from behind... I haven't named anyone, I don't command anyone... it's nothing with me...". Mrs. Minister, it just went wrong to say: "I wasn't even there! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” [[Rice from the CDS-PP and PSD Members.]] This is unacceptable! The only thing Mr. Minister here has been to repeat the thesis of the inexplicable natural phenomenon. The Minister says she hasn't read the report yet, but we read. And I will read to you a part of page 127 of the report — please take note or, if you wish, I can make it come to you, even underlined: "So and strictly at 4:13 when the fire went to the ATA phase, there was no increase in means, as would be expected. (...) there are no explicit reasons that could have justified the non-mobilisation of this group'. Mrs. Minister, I read, did you hear, in view of this, do you still say that it's nothing with you? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u56	Mrs. Members, the Bureau no longer registers, but there are several parliamentary groups that still have time. As usual, the last intervention will be from the PSD Parliamentary Group, so I ask the other parliamentary groups to use as quickly as possible the times they still have. [[Pause.]] Mr Fernando Rocha Andrade has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u57	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I do not have the opportunity to do here, of course, what I can do in my other profession, which is a small examination, when someone says that I read a book, to see if they have not read any, which I am convinced, would be what would happen. Even because it is obvious that they have already drawn conclusions, since the conclusions are indifferent to what is written in the report. The report points out, as Mr Nuno Magalhães has just said, any wrong command options at that time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u58	Any chance? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u59	But it also points out, for example, that the implementation of the forest defence plans in that area was 19 % over six years. It also points out that meteorological analysis technicians — those that would be necessary to point to the evolution of fires — do not exist,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u60	After all, the honourable Member has been able to read!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u61	... never existed in civil protection. [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] Have you read?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u62	I read!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u63	Is it? Oh, my God! [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] Mr. Member, I not only read as I had the opportunity to, a few years ago,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u64	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u65	... be part of the governance in the internal administration. And, therefore, Mr. Deputy,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u66	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u67	... when I look at this, my humility and my decorum lead me to examine also the options I took part in, and that was ten years ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u68	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u69	I find it extraordinary that others, with more recent participation, do not also have this humility and decorum. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u70	For an intervention, Mr. Carlos Matias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u71	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : The state has indeed failed! He failed in the ability to fight fire, failed in the command and hierarchy of civil protection and, indeed, it is necessary to withdraw the consequences and rethink the model of civil protection. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it is wrong and not serious to concentrate this debate on what happened on that tragic night.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u72	Who saw them and who saw them? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u73	In fact, it takes humility, it is necessary to go to the bottom of what is purely portrayed here. The state has failed and, in the portrait of this failure, is also right. The State has failed, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when you have subfinanced the forest scaffolding teams and have not increased their number. The state has failed and you are also responsible. The State has failed, ladies and gentlemen. Members, when he failed to comply with the legislation, when he called the prosecutors 'fats of the state'. The state has failed and you are in this portrait! [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] The State has failed, ladies and gentlemen. Members, when Mr Christian Assumption and your Government made a law that liberalized the planting of eucalyptus, stimulated monoculture and created conditions for the spread of fires. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] The State has failed, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, when you were in the government and have let years and years go by, and continue, the procedures for the approval of the municipal fire defence plans are being carried out. [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] You're in that photograph! You're in a picture of a messy forest! Between 2011 and 2017 — this date, of course, tells you something — only 9, 6 % of the forest has been ordered.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u74	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. Please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u75	I will finish, Mr. President. We need to get to the bottom of the problem, but you don't want to do it. It's just that I'm just going to the bottom of the problems,
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u76	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u77	I will finish, Mr. President. As I was saying, just going to the bottom of the problems, in planning, in management, in prevention and, yes, in combat, we will respect the memory of the victims, and you are not doing so. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u78	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we continue without inscriptions... I recall that the tradition is that the parliamentary group that takes the initiative of the debate is the last to intervene and therefore we hope that there will be Greens, CDS-PP or CFP entries. [[Pause.]] Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u79	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : On the speech of Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, I thought that the PSD had already learned anything about this anxiety that has to rush into things. Do you remember when you spoke to the country about suicide? [[Here comes that again!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u80	They've heard it very well too! You've heard very well, haven't you, honourable Member? [[PSD protests.]] It's that rush drive! Now, from yesterday to today, in less than 24 hours, they were able to make a careful reading of a report around 300 pages. Therefore, Mr President, I am sorry, but some seriousness is needed in this debate. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]] And, as we mentioned in the first speech, probably the PSD did not need to have read the report, because it had already drawn conclusions before reading it. This is the truth! But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this report, like others, deserves a careful, unprecipitated, careful reading so that we can, in fact, act accordingly. And in order to act accordingly, I once again say, Mrs Minister, all the consequences of the operational failures that have existed, political and practical consequences must be removed. And when I say practical, it is to withdraw consequences to strengthen the means that we do not have and equip, to operate in the best way, the means that we have. This has to be done. We must learn from these lessons so that tragedies of this nature do not happen. But, in fact, there needs to be a great breakthrough on the part of the PSD and the CDS to talk about the assumption of political responsibilities when they don't look at what they built themselves to weaken our forest, because...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u81	The honourable Member has already exceeded time. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u82	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, the PSD and the CDS weakened our forest because they boosted the spread of forest fires in a much more intense way with, in particular, the law of the liberalisation of the eucalyptus. [[PSD protests.]] right now, what are we doing?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u83	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u84	We are blocking — I repeat, blocking — this political decision that you have taken wrongly. For what? To protect our forest. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes, the PCP and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u85	Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u86	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Since the Minister does not answer my question regarding page 127, and since this debate is over, I would like to say that the CDS, as I said yesterday, has made a preliminary reading and will do a thorough reading. [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u87	Mrs. Heloísa Apollonia, did you hear me yesterday? [[Protests by the Greens Member of the Republic of Poland.]] If you heard me yesterday, you're hearing me say exactly the same thing. The paper's the same, look at it! As part of this in-depth reading, we will be going — and you will understand what I am going to say — certainly take part in this effort to make the necessary changes in the context of forest reform, in particular the concern, which we have already expressed, on climate change. We'll do that.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u88	And the eucalyptus? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u89	We will do all this, we will focus the debate on how you want to focus on it in the future. But there is one thing for which they do not count on us: it is, worrying about the future, trying to turn the page and forget the past. Don't count on us for this. Whoever has to be held accountable will be-CL - it is the minimum of decency that we can have before the victims and their families. It's the minimum of decency! So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the time goes by when the Left Block, by the voice of Mr Soares, said when there was a forest fire: « The government cannot take refuge in weather».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u90	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u91	Who saw them and who saw them! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] Now, the Member of the Left Block says: "We are not talking about this! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Sir, you are in this photograph! [[The gentlemen are in the photograph!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u92	You're the gentlemen in this picture. You are in the picture of decoordination, you are in the photograph of incompetence and, if you read the Report, you have noticed and read, or have not read, what is not there.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u93	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time. I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u94	I will finish, Mr. President. And what is not there is any reference to such a law of the liberalisation of the eucalyptus, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen. [[Protests from BE and the Deputy Greens Heloísa Apollonia.]] They want to discuss seriously, say what's in the report and not what's not. Do not try to take away the photograph, because you are there, the blame is yours too! [[Protests from BE and the Deputy Greens Heloísa Apollonia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u95	I now give the floor to Mr António Filipe.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u96	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate was a bad way to start discussing this report. However, we hope that this debate on this subject, having begun badly, can be better concluded and that the one we have already scheduled will be more productive and useful for this House and for the country than this one. in this debate, the PSD requires apologies, the CDS requires resignation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u97	Months ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u98	However, Mrs. Minister, what the country needs is not an apology,... [[Protests from PSD MP Carlos Abreu Amorim.]] ... what the country needs is, in fact, the development of responsibilities and concrete measures to solve the problems. [[PCP applause.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] It's no use for any government member to apologize, go home quietly and then do nothing. This is not what we want. As far as resignations are concerned, Mrs Minister, what you need to see is whether the structures that have been created are appropriate, whether they work and have the capable people in front of you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u99	Please conclude, Member of the Commission. It's been too long.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u100	This is important. The question is not to replace a citizen by citizen b to do the same.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u101	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u102	The important thing is that we take fundamental steps to ensure that, in the coming years, such misfortunes as this do not actually happen in our country. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u103	Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has the floor for the closing of the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u104	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There is a well-known concept in the law, which is the impossible attempt. In fact, what the Socialist Party, what the benches of the far-left parties that pile it up and...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u105	Be respectful!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u106	...what the gentlemen. Members of the Government here have been making an impossible attempt to ignore the report of the Independent Technical Commission, which is from now on indisputable. When the PSD, in good time, launched the idea, which was then welcomed by the other parties, of setting up an independent technical committee — underlining, independent — so that we could have the technical clearance of the facts, many people attacked us. But the PSD was right. We now have a report, which is at the disposal of all Portuguese, where technical responsibilities and multiple failures appear. And it's not instrumentalization to talk about failures. The work that is being done by the Portuguese press is not instrumentalization, what is done in any reading, more preliminary or more in-depth, of the Report... [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] ... is to see the failures, the multiple failures, in coordination, in leadership and in the architecture of the system. And the attempt to cover up the facts, the permanent game of camouflaging reality, purely and simply, constitute an impossible attempt, which shames the political agents, whether they are parliamentary or the executive, who enter this game. The last word of the PSD is for the victims. The first way we respect the victims and dignify them in this tragedy is to respond to their first wishes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u107	Please conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u108	And there are two ways to do it. First of all, we already realize, the members of the government, simply, have no political daring to consume it...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u109	And you do? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u110	You really have to conclude, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u111	I shall conclude, Mr President, if I may. As I said, the members of the government have no political authority to assume political responsibilities from the failures that are fully found in the report and to apologize. Secondly, and I - directly address the radical extreme-left parties,... [[BE's protests.]] ... from now on this House, as a result of an application for the PSD,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u112	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u113	... will analyze the articles of the law, which was prepared by the PSD, the CDS-PP and the Communist Party English,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u114	Mr President, you have spent a lot of your time, I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u115	I will finish, Mr. President. As I said, soon after the House will examine articles of the law which intended to compensate, through an extraordinary and urgent mechanism,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u116	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u117	...the victims of the fires.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u118	Mr President, we must comply with the rules. Please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u119	You sold yourself for a plate of budget lenses. Get back!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u120	Have respect!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u121	Go back and get it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u122	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u123	Do your duty to the victims,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u124	One day, the button that turns off the microphone will have to be activated...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u125	... approving legislation which is competent to dignify them. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u126	Mr President, respect for Parliament is also respect for the other Members and for the times. Mrs. Members, concluded the current debate, we began to appreciate the projects of lein.os 614 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 78 / 2017 of 17 August establishing a simplified cadastral information system and repealing Law No 152 / 2015 of 14 September ( PSD ) and 617 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 78 / 2017 of 17 August establishing a simplified cadastral information system and repealing Law No 152 / 2015 of 14 September ( CDS-PP ), in general together with draft resolutions No 1062 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends greater support to the Government for forest fire defence investment ( CDS-PP ) and 1076 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a set of measures for the prevention and protection of forest fires ( BE ). Mr Nuno Serra has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD presented, with this document, a constructive claim on the final decision concerning areas where the registration would start, to be reconsidered and evaluated after the fire season. What we want in this document is to extend the pilot project of the register to other municipalities equally fused in terms of forest fires. But due to lack of seriousness, or sense, or even because there was political prejudice, the PSD proposal presented in September 2016, which conceived a mechanism for the creation of the extended register throughout the country. The left parties rejected this PSD proposal, without even discussing it in the specialty, to finally approve only one system that included a pilot project for some municipalities. At the time of the presentation of our proposal, the Minister for Agriculture called it surreal. Therefore, extending the registration to the whole country is, for the government, surreal. So what we are doing here today is a debate on the surreal. Mr. President and Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, surreal is what the government has done in trying to make a forest reform that serves no one but its political interests. Surreal was to lead the PSD proposals for the creation of an environmental diversity grant and a single command, which will meet the recommendations now presented in the report of the Independent Technical Commission. Surreal is unfortunately having a weak implementation of the RDP ( Rural Development Plan ) with regard to forest investments, and we will see the Government and this left-wing majority continue to say that they are supporting the forest and its producers. Surreal is, after the warnings of the IPMA (English Institute of the Sea and the Atmosphere ) about the weather conditions that would make one feel during the month of October and after what happened in June, July and August, the Government has ignored these warnings and decided not to prolong the Charlie phase, which ended up conditioning, and much, the fight against last week's fires. Surreal was this government having replaced the leaders of civil protection within months of the start of the critical phase of fires in Portugal. Surreal was the discoordination and failures in the means of combating fires, as is reflected in the report, which has already been mentioned here today. Surreal, too, today we have the Minister of Internal Administration to say that it is early to evaluate the report and we had your colleague, Minister of Agriculture yesterday, to say that he would accept the proposals of the Technical Commission. After all, there are some from the government who read the report and others who cannot read it. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u128	Surreal, Mrs. Members, it is the PS, the Left Block and the PCP have decided, on Wednesday, that the compensation to those who have lost everything in these disasters should be treated as if nothing abnormal had happened in our country and that the repair of these goods and damage would be conditional on the clearance of State responsibilities, therefore « for the calendars ». Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not surreal but, yes, unqualified that, after the failure of the forest reform, after the large fires that have sparked the country and that have brought dramatic consequences to many families, after having obstructed the process of allocating demining to the victims of these fires and after the submission of the report of the Independent Technical Commission which shows that there was a clear failure of the State, this government and this left majority have not yet, at one time, apologized to the country and to the people. More: it is unqualifying that they have not assumed their political responsibilities. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José Manuel Pureza took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u129	You now have the floor on behalf of the CDS Parliamentary Group, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u130	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As everyone knows, the CDS, with the PSD, presented in September 2016 a bill for the creation of a national cadastral information system that was the target of a vast set of hearings to all relevant entities, perhaps more than two dozen, but proudly the Government and the PS parliamentary bench, with the support of the left, decided to legislate against all and against all, as we heard from the Minister of Agriculture saying, having been dubbed by the parties that support the government. The government chose to make a simplified registration, but in the end, it still reduced the scope of the action of that same registration to a pilot project to the 10 municipalities that were affected by the major fires of 2016 and 2017 that had occurred until the date of the approval of the law, which was in June. Now, it happens that, if it is true that the fire of Pedrogão Grande, Gois and the neighbouring municipalities had a terrible human dimension, it is also true that, despite its large and not negligible territorial dimension, the impact, in terms of the proportion of burned area, was equal or less than in other municipalities which subsequently burned to the publication of the law and which were even very good examples of forest management. This is the most elementary justice, considers the CDS, extending this pilot project to the other municipalities that had great fires in 2017. At the same time, the CDS also presents here today another draft resolution recommending the Government to strengthen support for forest fire protection networks, either in private areas, because 97 % of Portuguese forest is private, and here, for urgent strengthening of action 8.1.3. the PDR 2020, either in non-private areas as a result of the Operational Programme Sustainability Efficiency and Use of Resources, vulgar, POSEUR, which is still — no doubt! — only four tenders for a total of EUR 11 million have been opened. The CDS also urges the Government to seek new sources of operation for these investments that are of a relevant territorial scale, with a significant impact on the territory, in particular on cohesion funds or even through the Juncker Plan, and including in the negotiation of the future Community support framework. This is also one of the challenges listed in the report which was presented yesterday by the independent technical committee to improve forest prevention. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u131	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr. Carlos Matias.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u132	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : According to the 8. Interim Report on Forest Fires, by 30 September this year 145 fires were recorded in the category of large fires, i.e. more than 100 ha of burning area, which burned about 192,000 ha of forest areas, about 89 % of the total 216 000 ha already burned. These numbers, the ones this year, confirm what has been known for a long time: a small number of occurrences are enough to allow large areas to be consumed by flames. In fact, only 1 % of the occurrences led to 90 % of the burning area being consumed. The conditions for the eruption of these types of phenomena can still make the picture worse: climate change is undeniable and there is a disordered forest with management problems. The Left Block has been affirming the need for a radical change in the forest policy paradigm, placing the main focus on the ordination of forest and territory and on the management of forest areas. We have put forward concrete proposals. However, we have always considered that we have not yet gone beyond partial measures to minimize the risks. We must hear and respect the people and proposals coming from those on the ground and from organisations working in the forest sector as well as environmentalists. It is necessary to adopt a holistic vision for each region that integrates the economic, environmental, social and landscape dimensions and implement measures on the ground step by step. For the time being, applications for RDP measures providing for the management of mats in fuel management ranges and mosaics must be approved without the lengths they have suffered. It is necessary to open new stages of applications to implement, within a short period of time, the implementation of management tracks in the road network and protection tracks for population agglomerations — already one of the failures mentioned in the report that we have just discussed. Otherwise, for the year, we will have more dramatic situations, especially in isolated villages and surrounded by forest areas with great forest density, as was precisely what happened in the central region of the country. In addition to the reactivation of the monitoring posts, the ICNF (Instituto de Conservação da Nature et das Forestas) continues to require forest slags to remain in surveillance. thus, the sapphires are committed to the public service in a much longer period, but, on the other hand, they cannot perform services capable of generating resources for their sustainability. If this continues and there is no reinforcement in support of forest slag teams, management organisations fear that it will be very difficult to maintain them in the future. That risk exists. The least-resourced entities in this case are still the most penalized. in these circumstances, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we propose that this House should recommend to the Government new and more specific steps to minimize and solve the problems. These are, in our view, essential measures to move towards a more orderly, better managed forest, providing forest producers with fair compensation for the diversity of services that they provide to society while maintaining the forest. And they are also essential measures to ensure better prevention, which so much lacks — as everyone seems to agree — and a better fight against fires, ensuring the survival and strengthening of the action of forest slags. Let me now add that when Mr Nuno Serra spoke about taking political responsibility, I thought that the PSD would finally assume its political responsibilities for the disorder of the forest. It hasn't been this yet. We're waiting. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u133	You now have the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro do Carmo.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u134	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Surreal has been listening to Mr Nuno Serra, who has just failed to speak of the « sex of angels ». I assume you didn't just do it for lack of time, because it would have arrived there, because of the content of the bills said zero, strictly zero. The projects of lein.os 614 / XIII ( 3. ( a ), PSD, and 617 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) of the CDS, presented today, propose the first amendment to Law No 78 / 2017 of 17 August, which creates a simplified cadastral information system. This simplified cadastral information system, or rather, as we call it, and well the « single building counter », provides for a pilot project to be carried out for a year in the area of 10 municipalities. I assume they know that at the beginning there were three and, in view of the severe fire dimensions, it was extended to more 7, and today in 10 municipalities. This pilot project aims to test the administrative procedures created and all adjacent issues, such as the harmonisation of different types. Now, testing the system in more than 30 municipalities, as proposed, is, in addition to making the work difficult, impermissible the consideration of the pilot project. Either it's a pilot project or it's not! Moreover, it should be noted that in this law, Article 32. the, it is expected that during the one-year period of operation an assessment of this simplified regime will be made and then that its extension to the entire national territory will be guaranteed. At the worst of all, Mr. Members, this scheme will be extended throughout the national territory on 1 November 2018. However, this deadline may even be anticipated where appropriate. In draft resolution No 1062 / XIII ( 3. ( a ), the CDS recommends greater support to the Government for the investment in forest fire defence and provides for the wide opening of competitions for fire forest defence facilities, the opening of POSEUR competitions, as well as strengthening operation 8.1.3 of the PDR and other issues. It's funny, Mrs. Patrícia Fonseca, it's very curious that the CDS is now saying to do everything he hasn't done. If not, note: the CDS constantly accuses the current Minister of Agriculture for having cancelled a tender which the previous minister launched, amounting to EUR 210 million, to support the forest, this contest, Mrs Deputy, which, as you know, was declared illegal by the General Inspection of Agriculture because she had no allocation. Just a little detail: a contest has been opened without allocation! More: the previous minister conducted PRODER negotiations, one in March 2012 and the other in September 2015, resulting in a global reduction of 175 million euros of public support to the forest. It is appropriate to say, Mrs. Deputy, who had one hand, to take the other. Or even worse: with his hand that was to give he gave nothing, because indeed he had nothing to give. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u135	I ask you to finish, Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u136	I will finish, Mr. President. This is called political use and the use of tragedy, as has been explored here before. Add : a competition has already been launched that precisely wants to close this and that ended in September 2017. As regards draft resolution No 1076 / XIII ( 3 ). a ), BE, proposes, among other issues, that we prepare ourselves, in the new Community support framework, to defend more and more forest, to study and to create new competences for municipalities. That's what the government is doing. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u137	Mr João Ramos has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u138	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For many years the CFP has been saying that the registration is not made because it is not affected by the necessary means. The reality has shown that it is not due to lack of legislation that registration is not done. The register is not made because public services, notably the Directorate-General of the Territory, have been disbursed from human resources and has not been carried out either because the financial resources needed for a complex process such as land ownership registration and its confrontation with other properties have not been available. On this they have special responsibilities all those who, in the exercise of government functions, have come to break the state, imbued with the spirit of the fat state that is necessary to dismantle. Some time ago it was pointed out as a value necessary to carry out the EUR 700 million register. This number seems very high but is probably correct, taking into account the amount of EUR 15 million needed to carry out the experimental registration in certain pilot councils and in which it was possible to register only 60 % of the buildings. It is the Government's recent answers to CFP questions that confirm that this party is right when it claims that the registration process is complex and that without resources it will not be made. The Ministry of Justice, asked about data, replied that complexity does not allow it to respond quickly. Four months have passed since the question was asked and the answer has not yet arrived. Government reports state that, of the seven pilot projects, six work has not been completed due to the financial difficulty for its completion. They are the services that have tried to prepare the register that give reason to the CFP. This is the context in which the CFP refused to follow the Government's proposal for legislation to carry out the register that placed the initiative and cost on the owners, when the matter is strategic for the country and for the design of policies for the development of agricultural forests and is seen as a cost for the owners. For this reason, the PCP Parliamentary Group announced that it would vote against the Government's proposal and it was reformulated, eliminating the most serious situations for the owners listed above and placing the simplified regime only for a pilot area corresponding to municipalities swept by forest fires. It is understood by the CFP that without an evaluation of this simplified process it does not make sense to extend it to other municipalities, without being demonstrated that this procedure actually has conditions for drawing up the register in conditions. Therefore, the CFP does not follow the proposals for enlargement to other municipalities, submitted by PSD and CDS. In parallel to the very specific subject of registration, projects on forest policy in general were dragged. The CFP will continue to stand before these recommendations, but will discuss its own innovative and substantive proposals on the establishment of a national biomass control plan and on intervention in the wood production market, which will discuss at the appropriate time. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u139	For a second intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u140	Mr President, in order to close this debate, I would like to ask Mr Pedro do Carmo what is it that these 10 municipalities in the Registration Act have that the new five municipalities do not have. I would say that these five new municipalities have a double chance: that of having a very large burning forest area—for example, 97 % of the territory of the municipality of Mação burned—and from now on not being included in the pilot project. What do these five councils have that the others don't have? Secondly, Mr President — and returning to the recurring issue of the annulment of the invitation to tender, which has not been declared illegal, if you will see that it has been considered null and void — you have mentioned here a reprogramming of the 2020 RDP, that your Government has cancelled and could have strengthened, as it has strengthened, because you have cancelled an invitation to tender of EUR 200 million and you refer it to EUR 36 million, exceeding the existing allocation. So he reinforced the allocation of the competition, but he could have strengthened it more and he did not because he did not want to, he did not want to put money in the forest, in the PDR. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u141	Mrs. Deputy, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u142	Thirdly, and in conclusion, I would like to say that for the first time in this Community support framework, POSEUR, i.e. the Community Cohesion Funds supported investment in forests. What we are asking is that you take advantage of this possibility and that in the next Community support framework they reinforce it with investment in structural prevention, because the forest is a good of all. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u143	Mrs. Members, let us move on to the joint debate, in general, of draft resolution No 471 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government extend the framework for competences, modalities and funding of information offices and support for education for sexual health and education by extending them to higher education and promoting a regular evaluation of the implementation of Law No 60 / 2009 of 6 August ( PS ) and draft resolution No 1075 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Changes in the scope of information offices and student support and extension of their obligation to higher education ( BE ). To begin the debate, Mr Hugo Carvalho of the Socialist Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u144	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Socialist Party today brings to plenary the discussion of the extension of the framework of the competences of the information and support offices in the field of sexual education and health education and its extension to all higher education establishments. The Socialist Party and its successive governments have contributed decisively to the reflection and consequent evolution of the sexual and reproductive health of Portuguese: The recognition of sexual education, family planning consultations, the right to reproductive health, the decriminalization of voluntary interruption of pregnancy and the implementation of sexual education in all establishments of basic and secondary education are relevant moments for the evolution of Portuguese society. [[P.S.'s applause.]] However, and despite the progress made over the past few years, the reality of sexual education is still clearly unsatisfactory, and there is still much to be done. We know that the generality of information offices and student support are, in many cases, impersonal spaces and little sought by students, who still have some difficulty in ensuring the anonymity of those attending them and who do not guarantee access to adequate contraceptive methods, as provided for in the legislation. But there are even more indicators we know. We know and are concerned about the still high rate of pregnancy in adolescence, as well as we are concerned about the continuity of discriminatory social behaviors in relation to gender and sexual orientation. It is because we know this reality—and stressing in all this the essential role of the family, parents, education officers, teachers and health professionals as decisive partners in the sexual education of Portuguese adolescents and young people—that we propose to the Government: the extension to university and political education of the obligation to implement information offices and support students; the promotion of the extension of the skills framework of information offices and support to the student in relation to the free distribution of contraceptive methods not subject to medical prescription, in conjunction with local health units, ensuring effective compliance with the law; and, finally, the recommendation to educational establishments, within the framework of their flexible management of the curriculum, where the time burden on sexual education is reinforced. o, 2. o is 3. the basic and secondary education cycles. In addition, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we want to strengthen the broad consensus that already exists in society around sexual education in school and thus deepen the construction of a more tolerant, informed and prepared society for the future. It is therefore with the conviction that we are moving forward in expanding the information and support offices for students to institutions and institutions of higher education and in evaluating and monitoring in basic and secondary schools, alongside a mobilising cause for youth and, in particular, for Portuguese students. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u145	Mr Luís Monteiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u146	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the Socialist Party on this agenda, as well as Mr Hugo Carvalho on his first intervention in plenary. Sexual rights are an integral part of human rights. This statement is accepted today worldwide, it is even part of great discussions within and outside the political decision-making areas and yet it is. Since the beginning of its existence, the Left Block is pleased and proud to have made this journey, together with other political and social forces. But today, when you arrived in 2017, it is important to know that many achievements were achieved with the effort of so many people who fought during a lifetime. Sexual education has been, and continues to be, one of the great demands of students and young people. Let us remember, for example, that since 1984 it had been shaped by legislation, but it took decades until it was regulated and that some government actually caught up in a situation that needed to be implemented in schools but which took more than 20 years until political decision-makers looked hard and bravely at the problem. The creation of information offices and support for pupils in basic and secondary education proved to be positive, despite their limited scope. One of its limitations of scope is not in its format but, rather, in its content, that is, today it is necessary to recover sexual education from a purely health-related context and also to bring it to citizenship, to civic training against gender violence, in the name of combating homophobia, biphobia, transphobia. In short, we must ensure that debate and training around sexual education cease to be merely training related to biological or health issues, understanding that it initiates and closes a 21st century debate against so many discriminations that unfortunately still exist and that we have to fight. It is precisely in this sense that the Left Block presents a draft resolution which, firstly, extends the requirement of the existence of these offices to all higher education institutions; secondly, it provides, in these same cabinets, contraceptive methods; thirdly, it guarantees basic and secondary curriculum time for these subjects, often also forgotten by the schools themselves; lastly, it ensures that these same formations are of quality and cover the set of areas that I have mentioned here, a training for these same teachers, to really guarantee a full complement of inclusive and universal sexual education in all schools and also in higher education. This is the will of the Left Block and we are fully open to discuss these projects and ensure the completeness of the measures we present here. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u147	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita of the CFP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u148	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP has always been committed and committed to the fight for the right to sexual education in schools, as well as to the fight for reproductive health and, therefore, over the years, we have put forward several initiatives in this area. In addition, it is worth recalling a pioneering initiative presented by the CFP in 1982, recognizing for the first time the right to sexual education and family planning, which was based on the problems in sexual and reproductive health, the worrying data on pregnancy in adolescence and on the prevalence of sexually transmitted infections and diseases. at that time the project was rejected by the PSD and the CDS-PP. In 1983, the CFP again presented initiatives on this subject and contributed decisively to the texts that would form the existing legislative building today. Thirty-three years since the publication of the first law that enshrined the right to sexual education there are important health indicators that emphasize the need and urgency of the effective implementation of the law. Several reports and studies from national and international entities, such as the Directorate-General for Health and the World Health Organization, among others, show that measures are needed to be taken around information and investment in sexual and reproductive health policies, such as the use of contraceptive methods, risk of unplanned pregnancy, teenage pregnancy and sexually transmitted diseases. The struggle of elementary and secondary school students has placed as one of their major demands the existence of sexual education in schools in an integrated way in the various programmatic contents. Despite the law predicting this same, successive governments did not involve students in both the definition of educational policies, in general, or sexual education, in particular. I also want to say, in this regard, that the CFP defends a model of transversal and interdisciplinary sexual education, that puts sexuality and reproductive health as a nuclear content in each discipline and that does not allow the theoretical isolation of the subject matter. We must also point out in this respect that the Left Block initiative is not clear in point 3 of its opinion on this. The approval of Law No. 60/2009 was a positive step, but there is still a long way to go to make it a reality in all schools in the country. The great obstacle to the application of sexual education in schools has always been reiterated by a lack of political will for its application, also manifested in the absence of material and human conditions in schools and in cuts in public funding for education, which is an urgent way to revert. The initiatives under discussion today contain an important aspect of expanding the higher education of information offices and support for education for sexual health and education and recommend to the Government measures that can in fact contribute to better sexual and reproductive health of young people and students, and will therefore be followed up in general by the CFP. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u149	Mr Ilda Araújo Novo, from the CDS-PP, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u150	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is not now that matters relating to sexual health and education have merited our attention. We understand that sexuality, as an essential dimension of life, is not limited only to what human beings do but also focuses on what they are. Sexual education is a continuous and permanent process of learning and socialization. It covers the transmission of information, promotes healthy attitudes and behaviors, is transversal and transdisciplinary. It has « as a fundamental objective the development and competence of young people in order to enable them to make informed choices in their behaviours in the area of sexuality, allowing them to feel informed and safe in their options ». He therefore advocated in due course the Working Party on Sexual Education. The school, as a « privileged agent in education for sexuality and affections, is to teach, educate in order to promote the overall development of students, promoting attitudes and values, encouraging the formation of free, responsible, autonomous and respectful citizens» — see the Final Report for the Impact Assessment of Law No 60/2009 of 6 August 2009 which does not question. It is about the application and regulation of this Act that the Socialist Party and the Left Block have decided to present draft resolutions. They are based on the said Final Report, in particular when they refer to a set of recommendations listed there, some of which stand out in the explanatory statement, and thus the recommendations of, among others, a recent study on the implementation of sexual education in school context, this one only in the Algarve region. Surprisingly, in the view of the CDS, although these references consist of the exposure of reasons, nothing emerges in the recommendations. Better by saying: Except for the first recommendation — the extension of information offices and support for students to higher education — in which both projects coincide, the two projects are also concerned about the extension of the competences of information offices and student support in terms of the obligation to distribute contraceptives free of charge and with reports on the implementation and evaluation of the impact of the law, which is welcomed. However, they recommend—it does not matter! — strengthening of the hourly load in the various teaching cycles. This is a true contradiction, because this recommendation for reinforcement is supported in the flexible management of the curriculum. But, after all, the flexible management of the curriculum is not the responsibility of schools, for which they so much defend autonomy? There is no single emphasis on the numerous recommendations aimed at maintaining the value of the area. It is not proposed to create continuous solutions, sustained, such as: the annual editorial; the reduction of the educational component for a teacher of the group, being kept the figure of the current coordinator; the reduction of the educational component for the other teachers involved; a strong investment in the training of teachers, technicians and parents in the area of sexual education; the global organization for the sharing of materials at regional or even national level; greater involvement of parents, education managers, etc. Finally, we have two draft resolutions without a word of guidance, without one of these recommendations, without an innovation. And all this despite the significant weaknesses already detected in the implementation of the law. It's too little, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u151	For an intervention, Mrs Margarida Balsairo Lopes has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Sexual education should be analyzed in a broad perspective of the civic and social training of young Portuguese people. It also demands a comprehensive view of what attitudes and behaviors are for health and well-being not only physically but also psychologically and emotionally. As mentioned in the last assessment report of Law No 60 / 2009 of 6 August 2009 — that report, it is important to remember, made in 2013, therefore in the previous Parliament — despite the evaluation of the implementation of the Act being very positive, there is still much to do and aspects to improve. In fact, one of the weaknesses identified in this same report — which certainly inspired the Socialist Party and the Left Block for the initiatives we are discussing today — is precisely the lack of a culture of systematic evaluation of the measures in school, which was not, as you can see, one of the aspects considered by either the Socialist Party or the Left Block, which has now proposed the increase of the hourly burden on the specific theme of sexual education, with broken proposals and without connection to the educational projects that teachers develop throughout Portuguese territory.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u153	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u154	in the same way that using a nail in the lapel says little about defending freedom in the decisions of every day, it is not for the Socialist Party to say that it defends the autonomy of schools and teachers who, every day, ceases to be more centralist, executing, in practice, the opposite of the good intentions that he likes to implore. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u155	Much of what was achieved was the effort, commitment, dedication and autonomy of schools and teachers. We expect this to continue. In fact, it would accept the government to give more autonomy to schools in defining their educational projects and their schedules and would not now have to respond to the lack of time that teachers point to this theme. for our part, we are concerned at the recognized lack of involvement of parents' associations and those responsible for education; we are concerned about young people's responses to the cost and availability of contraceptive methods, as well as the proposal of information offices and student support in higher education without any objective linkage with the strategies and actors of social action in higher education institutions. The confusion and distancing of the Left Block and the Socialist Party in this matter are worrying. But on the part of the PSD, they have an effective concern about the health and well-being of young Portuguese people, believing that for this we should give more conditions to schools and teachers, so that, with the right means and incentives, they can develop the most appropriate strategies. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u156	To close this item on the agenda, Mr Hugo Carvalho has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: There are times when we have to make choices and know whether we want to be progressive or whether we want to be resigned to nothing. Now, the Socialist Party is clearly presenting itself in this debate: we want to be progressive and be next to a mobilising cause for young people and Portuguese students. It was this serious debate that we wanted to bring to this House, a serious debate for progress, development and deepening of an issue that is essential and structural for us and for Portuguese society. That is what we proposed, and that is what we did. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u158	The joint discussion of draft resolutions 471 / XIII ( 2 ) concluded. ( a ) ( PS ) and 1075 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) ( BE ), we turn to the evaluation of Decree-Law No 66 / 2017 of 12 June, which establishes the Legal Regime for the Recognition of Forest Management Entities ( Parliamentary Assessment No 39 / XIII ( 2 ). a ) ( BE) ]. To initiate the debate, you have the floor, on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group, Mr Carlos Matias.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u159	The government is missing, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u160	Mr President, we are therefore making a small wait moment, in expectation that the government will present itself. [[Pause.]] Since we have no information at the moment on the presence of the government, I would ask Mr Matias to begin his speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u161	I call on the Bureau to speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u162	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u163	Mr President, I understand the situation, but a parliamentary assessment is a legislative initiative that leads to debate opinions on a decree, so it makes sense that the Government is present to hear the initiatives from the beginning. We realize that this is a particularly difficult day for the government... [[Oh, yes, yes!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u164	...but there's a solution. And the difficulty is not on the right side.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u165	Sir, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u166	It seems to me that we cannot have this debate without the presence of the government. The alternative is to change the order of business. I don't know if the rest of the boards accept this suggestion...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u167	Mr President, the Bureau has sought to inform the services of whether there would be any delay on the part of the members of the Government who should be present. We haven't got that information so far. We're trying to get it as soon as possible. So let us continue our work order. In view of the fact that there is no precise information on the presence of government members, I request Mr Matias to make his speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u168	I call again, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u169	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u170	Mr President, having items on the agenda in which the Government is not present, there is an announcement by the banks in this regard and not opening here a precedent for, in a parliamentary assessment, the Government is not present, suggesting that we be able to change the order of business, moving to the last item on the minimum wage.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u171	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares, for the signal that I can observe here, I realize that there is no consensus on this suggestion, which the Bureau naturally understands. In the absence of this consensus, there is no alternative to the Bureau than to give Mr Matias the floor, so that the order of business is fulfilled. You will understand that this is our only alternative right now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u172	I call on the Bureau to speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u173	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u174	Mr President, with all the good will that we may have, we must comply with the Rules of Procedure. And indeed, in the parliamentary assessments — that of the Left Block now, and immediately that of the CDS — the Government must be present. Therefore, with all due respect, it does not seem to me a good solution to be giving the floor to the Member of the Left Block to intervene — and since I say that the CDS will not then do so — and to make an assessment of a government decree without the government being present. We must comply with the law. No matter how difficult the day may be for the government, we cannot even fail to comply with the law.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u175	I call on the Bureau to speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u176	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u177	Mr President, it is also to pass on our understanding to the Bureau and to the plenary that it does not make sense to discuss a parliamentary assessment without the presence of the Government. That's obvious.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u178	I call on the Bureau to speak, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u179	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u180	Mr President, understanding the situation created here, our suggestion was that the work should be interrupted for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u181	That is also the understanding of the Bureau, Mrs Deputies. Mrs. Members, the work is interrupted for about 10 minutes so that this situation can be resolved, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. [[It was 11 hours and 49 minutes.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us resume our work. [[It was 12 hours.]] The Bureau did what it should do, which was to evaluate all the circumstances of this situation from a regiment point of view. Article 192. the Rules of Procedure provide that the Government may intervene in this parliamentary debate. But, of course, in addition to what is established in the Rules of Procedure, there is also a practice that is established in our current functioning. in this sense, we have sought to inform the government whether it would be present or not. We have not obtained information — at least until now — that the government would be present. in this sense, I would ask that we continue the work. I know that Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares intends to intervene. I only ask that we try to continue our work as quickly as possible. For what effect do you ask for the floor, Mr President?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u182	For an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u183	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u184	Mr President, it is in order to give the House an indication that, contacting the Government, it has given some difficulty with regard to the presence of the Minister of Agriculture at the moment, asking that—and now I am not speaking as a spokesman of the Government, that is not the function of the Left Block,... [[Ah!...]] [[Ah!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u185	... this is only and only information for the proper functioning of the work, for those who want the work to be well functioning — there was the possibility of an exchange of the order of work, now passing the House to the assessment of the decree-law on social income of insertion, and then to the assessment of the decree-law on forest management entities, and there could therefore be a good solution to this situation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u186	All right, Mr. Deputies. The Bureau is informed that there are also requests for an appeal from the Bureau by Mr José Cesario and then Mr Nuno Magalhães. You have the floor to speak to the Bureau, Mr José Cesario.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u187	Mr President, I would like to point out the seriousness of this situation. In any case, we do not oppose the reversal of the order of business, but we wanted to make it very clear that this situation is indeed serious, has no precedent and, more than that, we note that, now, it is the Left Block that takes over the place of government spokespersons. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u188	Mr Nuno Magalhães also spoke for an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u189	Mr President, firstly, and perhaps most importantly, it is to say that the CDS gives the consensus for this reversal of the agenda, but it cannot fail to note that what has happened is serious and is to avoid in future situations. In any event, for the successful continuation of the work, which is prolonged and intense during today, the CDS will, exceptionally, give the consensus to move on to the parliamentary assessment of the CDS initiative.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u190	For an appeal to the Bureau, Mr Filipe Neto Brandão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u191	Mr President, very quickly, I wanted to correct Mr. José Cesario with regard to the inavailability of the members of the Government, because there was even a precedent of Mr. Minister for Culture's indisability in a debate which was scheduled and which, consensually, was changed for that sole purpose. Therefore, there is no reason to empolate what clearly should not be empoiled. [[Protests from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u192	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the content of the requests made to the Bureau, I believe we can interpret that there is consensus that we should proceed with an amendment to the agenda. Therefore, we will move on to the fifth point on the assessment of Decree-Law No 90 / 2017 of 28 July which amends the legal system of social income for insertion[ parliamentary assessments n. 43 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( PSD ) and 44 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) ( CDS-PP ) ]. For the first intervention, Mrs Maria das Mercês Borges has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u193	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: The Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party called for the parliamentary review of Decree-Law No 90 / 2017 of 28 July which amends the legal regime of social income for insertion, because it considers that social income for insertion (RSI) is an important social instrument for combating poverty and social exclusion. As such, we must do everything to dignify this benefit and prevent its beneficiaries from being stigmatized and viewed as potential offenders. It was in this sense that legislation has been changed. This is a benefit which is intended to support people who, at a stage in their lives, for various factors, either because of unemployment or because of another situation, need the solidarity of many Portuguese people and, as such, need such support in order to be able to change their lives in order to rebuild their life plan. And it is in this spirit of solidarity of the Portuguese with others who need us to believe that there must be, on the part of those who receive the benefit, a sense of responsibility, corresponding to this opportunity to build their life project. That is why we believe that the conclusion of the insertion agreement at the outset is an extremely important compromise which should not have been repealed. We also believe that the definition of the maximum amount of mobile goods each beneficiary has set at 60 IAS (indicating social support), EUR 20 and such a thousand, is more than enough for dignity to exist. But to say that a person may have what he wants, that he has no limit, that is to say, removing this limit is not to dignify people, not to respect those who need it, is to throw up stigmas that are not necessary. [[Protests from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]] The third point has to do with automatic renewal, which is assumed by the government, who has given up these people, has given up evaluating their progress, has given up helping to follow in the construction of a new life project. [[Protests from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]] That is why, during this debate, we will present the proposals for amendments which we consider necessary to introduce rigour and transparency and to dignify those who, at a stage of life - and tomorrow we may be - need the solidarity of the Portuguese. [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from PCP MP Carla Cruz.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u194	You have the floor on behalf of the CDS-PP, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u195	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: The CDS has asked for Parliamentary assessment of the diploma approved by the Government on social income for inclusion because it considers that what is at issue is serious and negative. It is serious and negative, and let us be clear: for the CDS, the social income of insertion is an instrument of social action of the greatest importance and, as the name itself indicates, it is intended to support those who need, in temporary terms, with a view to social inclusion. Now, what the government has done with this initiative was to give a serious machadade in important social income assumptions, since it made the support more laxist and stopped demanding the beneficiary to commit himself by entering into a social inclusion contract, moving him to a mere obligation and not to its implementation. [[Protests from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]] What was intended with the insertion contract was that the person supported would, from the outset, assume a set of obligations aimed at their integration. Because the government considers that this is indispensable. [[Protests from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]] But more: the Government considers that what was a support that was renewed by checking the conditions of need of the person concerned can be automatically renewed, whether or not the person needs, whether or not he is in a position to deserve such support. It was only a failure to change the name, but it was only a lack of social reintegration support to be called, as in the past, guaranteed minimum income. And that, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, it was something that we all, especially the Portuguese, considered to be negative, because it is unfair for those people who get up every day and go to work and who know so many and so many that, without need and without merit, they are stuck in the shadow of the social support of the State, which ceases to target their insertion. [[Protests of PCP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u196	Is that how they defend the RSI? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u197	That is what we, in the CDS, will not fail to denounce and that is what many Portuguese expect of us. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this support has ceased to demand the demonstration of the registered assets, which, in our view, is also negative.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u198	Have shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u199	But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, not everything is negative. on our part, the fact that access to the CSR has changed and conforms to the requirements of the Constitutional Court, particularly with regard to legal residence, is an aspect which we propose to maintain, as with regard to persons deprived of their liberty, prisoners. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the CDS has a very responsible attitude, of valuing this complement, of this social support for reintegration, but it does not go in facilitating, it does not go in laxism and the Portuguese will not forgive this government if it follows a path that is from the past. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u200	On behalf of the Government, Mr. Secretary of State for Social Security, Cláudia Joaquim, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u201	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to today's diploma, and specifically with regard to social income for inclusion, I would like to mention only two or three aspects. In 2012, the changes introduced by the previous Government, which changed the equivalence scale and decreased the value of the social income of insertion in about 11, 38 € / month, resulted in the loss of social income of insertion by more than 110 000 people, of which about 56 000 children and young people.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u202	There he is!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u203	The amendments that you have tabled have only resulted in extended families, with more children, leaving the benefit. Is this what is called solidarity and this is what is called looking at the most disadvantaged and children? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] I would also like to point out that at that time the argument to change social income rules was that the decrease in value by EUR 70 million would support the Social Emergency Programme ( ESP ), in particular the increase in social pension and minimum pension. However, they increased the value of the social pension and minimum pension and cut the social supplement for the elderly (CSI) in about 9, 5 € / month for each elderly person at the same time. In other words, the ISC has decreased, increased the disability pension, but the argument to reduce the social income of insertion was to increase the lower value pensions. But, in particular, there is here a myth that needs to be clarified. With regard to the signing of the insertion agreement, it is still being signed 45 days after the request. The amendment that you made made that the right to provide was only after the conclusion of the insertion agreement, and that in most situations, not because of people but because the services had difficulties, it would have taken 60 days. The average time of referral was 78 days in 2013, compared to 55 days in 2011, i.e. with you, the average time of referral increased by about 23 days. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And it did not increase by chance, it increased because it made the provision totally bureaucratic, with demands on paper, forcing people to deliver each year a request with a set of paper documents with information that social security knows. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With this amendment, what you wanted and managed was to stop applying a renewal that corresponds to a renewal made by the information systems, which will seek all the incomes of the people you know through the finance. And what happened to that? What happened was that, administratively, they were able to suspend all the demands of the people who delivered paper and the services, from which you took 3000 employees in four years, failed to respond. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u204	Is that how they defend the family? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u205	On the issue of mobile goods with registration — cars, aircraft, boats, boats — what have we verified? We verified that the only objective they had was to withdraw the social income condition of the inclusion of Decree-Law No 70 / 2010, which defines the uniform conditions for the allocation of all social benefits by condition of resources. This had only one objective, that of being able to move to the will of those who are the conditions for people's access to the CSR to exclude them, but it adds that the refusals for this particular reason were 0, 2 %.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u206	Mr. Secretary of State, please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u207	I will finish, Mr. President. With regard to automatic renewal, I would just like to clarify one thing: it is not automatic, it is verified very strictly, with all the known incomes in social security. You have done administratively what you wanted to do but you have not taken up doing, which was to end the benefit. I'm glad you didn't, and she's very resilient. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u208	Mr Soeiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u209	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate, triggered by the PSD and the CDS, is not about the credibility of an essential benefit for the fight against poverty, nor is it about the fight against fraud. This PSD and CDS debate is a pretext for stigmatizing people who receive RSI in Portugal, it is a pretext for a speech of hatred to the poor, for a speech of social racism, to create a stigma, making people who are now in extreme poverty to be the suspects of the custom and to be seen as being fraudulent. [[Congratulations from BE and PS.]] [[Protests of PSD and CDS-PP Members, having the CDS-PP Member Filipe Anacoreta Correia beaten with hands at the end of the bench.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, there are 2 million people in Portugal who live below the poverty line and, of them, only a small part — a small part, 400 000 — receives the social income of inclusion, which does not cause people to leave the poverty situation because it is very low, only diminishes the severity of poverty. The RSI is the most controlled social benefit of all in Portugal, but has a residual weight in social security accounts of 2 % of the expenditure on social security, and reaches not only adults but also children: 40 % of the beneficiaries of the RSI are people who could not work because they are not old enough to do so. The PSD and the CDS in the previous government did two things: they cut half the number of beneficiaries in a context where poverty increased,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u210	It's a shame! It is the "sensitivity" of the CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u211	... from 400 000 to 250 000, and lowered the reference value by 25 %. It wasn't by chance, sirs. Members, who have increased child poverty, have also done what you have done in relation to the RSI. What this Government has done now — in fact, as a result of the conclusions of the working group with the Left Block — was to bring demand and dignity to this provision, increasing the reference value. Thus, the provision covered more people in need, not requiring them to wait months to receive the RSI due to administrative delays. RSI is the only thing you have to do with expenses that can't wait for months, because we're talking about money to survive. And automatic renewal—and with this I shall finish, Mrs. Members—it is neither laxism nor regabofe,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u212	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u213	... nothing more false. Auto-renewal improves the fight against fraud because income is verified informally, ensures continuity of income, and above all enables homeless people to have access to the CSR. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I walked through the streets of the city of Porto, from where I am, along the same streets as the President of the Republic, Marcelo Rebelo de Sousa, and heard what the President heard.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u214	Go to the neighborhoods and see a lot of things there!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u215	Mr President said publicly that homeless people do not have a home where they receive social security letters to renew their claim annually. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, homeless people need automatic renewal to have access to the few migalas that enable them to survive. [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]] That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, it's regrettable...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u216	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u217	I'm done now, Mr. President. As I was saying, it is regrettable that the Members of the PSD and the CDS now want to remove these few migales from the homeless and in the hearing we did here with these people have shown a lot of concern and when the President of the Republic speaks also show concern. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we're ashamed! Shame on us! [[Congratulations from BE and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u218	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : On the debate that is being held, it is important to start by recalling the words of an former Minister of the CDS who was part of the PSD Government and the CDS and who, on the social income of insertion, said that this was a 'laughing' financing and that his beneficiaries were people who simply did not want to work and who wanted to live at the expense of the taxpayer. This, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, say so much! It says a lot about social insensitivity and says a lot about existing prejudices.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u220	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u221	It is important to remember this, because we know very well what PSD and CDS come when they want to make this discussion: they come to raise and accentuate prejudices. [[PCP applause.]] But they also come to talk about facilitations and laxisms. Well, let's talk about it then, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, for ease and laxism. For the most deprived, for those who are obliged to make use of social benefits of this nature, there are no facilitations, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen. There is no ease in everyday life marked by poverty, marked by profound difficulties, limitations and impediments in access to services and fundamental goods. There is no facilitation when they have to expose their lives and the lives of their relatives to access social benefits. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us, then, continue to talk about facilitation. Facilitations were given to banks and economic groups.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u222	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u223	Facilitation was the speed with which the bonds were opened to the stock exchange to deliver millions and millions and to grant obscene benefits to the bank and large economic groups, even though they impoverished Portuguese, which created authentic bureaucratic hells in access to social benefits, which cut into the value and scope of social benefits, including the CSR, and which protected thousands of families and thousands of children.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u224	Children!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u225	And if there are any situations of irregularity, sirs. Members, who identify themselves, who control themselves, who fight and correct themselves, but do not use these situations to stigmatize, to sow distrust or to sow prejudice. [[Congratulations on the PCP and Mr José Moura Soeiro.]] These situations are being dealt with, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen! They are fighting with the human resources and with the appropriate material resources. In this regard, it is also important to recall the action of the PSD and the CDS with regard to public administration workers, in particular in social security, in which they wanted to send 700 workers to the street of the Social Security Institute,... [[Exactly! Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u226	... challenging the social security service and follow-up to the RSI. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, we believe that the State should assume its responsibilities in ensuring social support for families in poverty and social exclusion. Since 1993 the CFP has stated that the existence of support for subsistence should be combined with multidisciplinary measures with a view to the social integration of its beneficiaries. This is the way we stand for, and must be accompanied by the creation of employment with rights, the exploitation of wages, reforms and pensions, a path that is effectively of justice and social progress. [[Congratulations on the PCP and Mr José Moura Soeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u227	Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro of the Socialist Party has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u228	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : These parliamentary assessments of the PSD and the CDS on the CSR are, in fact, a good assessment of the sad state of the Portuguese right. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the poor aren't criminals! The terms they use on this topic would make the Christian Democrats and the Social Democrats feel ashamed if they still sit on any of these chairs. [[PSD protests.]] From laxism to laxity, it is worth everything, throwing a moral condemnation on all those who are at the end of the line, in the most extreme poverty, and who find in the RSI a last safety net. [[Congrats from the PS and the BE Member José Moura Soeiro.]] [[PSD protests.]] We know what they want to do. None of this has to do with combating fraud — which the PS has always predicted and ensures — nor with the reality of this fraud, which is completely marginal in the state support structure. What you want is to make the poor the scapegoat of your radicalism, stimulating social envy and primary feelings that are owned by populist and demagogic political forces throughout Europe. [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]] The right has never accepted this new generation of social policies and has always sought to diminish its historical importance. We remember well when Paulo Portas's PP called him a support to laziness and made this fight one of the saddest causes on the Portuguese right, ignoring what lazy is, yes, a society with intolerable levels of inequality and poverty, much of it caused by your policies. [[P.S.'s applause.]] With the amendments introduced by our legislation which they want to appreciate, there has been a uniformization of the condition of resources applied to all — I repeat, to all — social benefits to combat poverty. This standardization had already been done in 2010, but in 2012 and 2013, in addition to the cuts that you have made, created a condition of unique access to the CSR. That is what we eliminated, strengthening even more effective control mechanisms, including, of course, the end of automatic renewal, with a simple request. You know all this, and that is why your appreciation has nothing to do with this legislation or the fight against fraud, but it has to do with your ideological war against the state, your ideological war against the social state and its mechanisms for combating poverty. The poor can't be your scapegoats! [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]] During your governance, poverty has increased in all stages, especially among young people. As long as that happened, you cut the support you needed most of them. Only between June 2012 and January 2014, there were fewer than 110 000 people receiving RSI, including thousands of pensioners and 59 000 children and young people under the age of 18. We speak of the most unprotected: children and elderly people whom the PSD and the CDS call "laxists" and "laxious" because they are poor, because they have worked a life and have not had a minimum of survival or because they were born into a family that needs the state to put food on the children's table! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, be ashamed! [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Each of these people who have not left the abyss of poverty because of your policies is a shame that accompanies you in this debate. But every Portuguese who has already come out of poverty and child poverty with our policies is a pride that honors us in this debate. This is how we will continue,... [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] ... far from your radicalism, with the support of the country, in the name of a less unequal society and therefore freer,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u229	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u230	... a society in which no one is left behind, will never be condemned to the inevitability of poverty. [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u231	For an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u232	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What is at stake here is not the social income of insertion but, yes, the amendments. Mrs. Members, with these amendments, you allow someone to receive the social income of inclusion without seeking work and registering their children in school. Be ashamed of that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u233	They're kids!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u234	Be ashamed to promote child labour! [[PS, BE and PCP protests and PSD and CDS-PP counter-protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u235	I would like to thank you for letting Mr Nuno Magalhães speak. I call on the ladies. Members for this purpose.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u236	They're kids!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u237	Sir, you can yell whatever you want! What is at stake is social laxism, what is at stake is the irresponsibility that Mr. Deputy commits by allowing someone to receive the social income of insertion...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u238	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u239	...and you don't have to enroll your children in school, that someone gets the social income of insertion and that you don't have to prove your lack,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u240	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u241	...that someone receives the social income of insertion and that he does not have to seek work.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u242	It's fake!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u243	That is an insult to the workers that you like to say you defend. It's a shame for you, for PCP and PS! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u244	To close the debate on this agenda item, Mrs Maria das Mercês Borges has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u245	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The first assessment I can make of this debate is that he was not worthy... [[Congrats from BE José Moura Soeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u246	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u247	...to the people who receive this benefit. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u248	And it was not worthy of you. Members of the Socialist Party and the Left Block. You know why?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u249	Left Block? Oh, my God! So, isn't it CDS? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u250	You speak in demagogy, you insult, you say I am not a social-democrat worthy. My gentlemen, who is probably sitting badly on this bench is Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u251	The lady's not sitting on that bench!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u252	On this benefit, what we are doing is to defend that people build their lives, protect them from stigmatization and false demagogy, because, Mr. José Moura Soeiro,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u253	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u254	... do you think it's good for your conscience to assign few migales to people? We don't consider it! Social Democrats want these few migalas not what people deserve. People deserve much more:...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u255	You really have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u256	... they deserve to build their lives, they deserve support to be worthy people again. You want poverty! That's what you want! [[Ah!]] [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u257	So they leave the long-term unemployed...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u258	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u259	Mr President, with due respect, I will say that we need the honourable Members. Members will respect what they say in this Parliament! If there's demagogy, it's in these benches, it's not in this! [[PSD and CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u260	Before we move to the next item on the agenda, the Bureau wishes to inform that proposals for amendments to the PSD and the CDS-PP have been introduced, which, together with Decree-Law No 90 / 2017, have been reduced to 10. the Commission. In the meantime, I would ask Secretary Pedro Alves to announce initiatives that have entered the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u261	Mr President, they have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, the drafts of lein. 635 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Creates the order of physical therapists ( PS ) and 636 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates the order of health technicians and approves their status ( PS ) and finally draft resolution No 1079 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Promotion and valuation of the Gonçalo basket in the Guard District ( PS ). That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u262	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We will return to agenda item 4, which is based on the assessment of Decree-Law No 66 / 2017 of 12 June, which establishes the Legal Regime for the Recognition of Forest Management Entities ( Parliamentary Assessment No 39 / XIII ( 2 ). a ) ( BE) ]. Mrs. Members of the Government are already present, so I give the floor, for an intervention, Mr. Carlos Matias, of the Left Block. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u263	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government: The rural area has been subject to transformations—sometimes, drastic—, seeing a marked change in the traditional agro-silvo-pastorial mosaic in the sense of continuous mono-specific settlements, consisting of species of high inflammability, essentially eucalyptus and bravado pine. The fire surges that have hit the country—and we have already talked about fires—with increasing fires in the area and time led to a concentrated response in the direct fight against forest fires, to the detriment of prevention, planning and forest management. In accordance with the principles of forest policy defined under the Forest Policy Basics Act, urgent needs for forest management and management and for forest fire prevention must be met. The transformations in rural territories and the fragility of the forest policies developed so far justify the urgent need to open a new path in the organization of the forest and rural space, in the management of the immense forest minifundia and in the structural prevention of the outbreak and spread of fires. in this context, the government instituted Decree-Law No. 66 / 2017, which establishes the Legal Regime for the Recognition of Forest Management Entities, the so-called EGF. According to the legislative text we now consider, EGFs can adopt various forms, such as companies by quotas or anonymous companies. Therefore, the accepted corporate formulations allow to place industrial and financial capital to manage small properties. thus, the interests of small owners will be defended by those who obviously have conflicting interests with their own. Worse still, these companies, which may even have capital entirely outside the forest, encourage the concentration of property in the hands of a few beneficiaries, including cellulose and timber companies, which can easily unfold and be presented as EGF. Despite this, EGFs may even benefit under special conditions when applying for financial support, in addition to the right to exemptions and reductions in taxes and fees payable by registries. On the other hand, the EGFs do not contribute to forest ordination, because the managed heritage may be in the form of plots scattered throughout the country. This dispersion, which will remain, will never allow a more rational, more profitable and environmentally sustainable exploitation. It is this serious omission that we wish to supply, with the proposals we have put forward, and they have been distributed within the framework of this parliamentary assessment. The Left Block proposes the establishment of the possibility of establishing forest management units, UGFs, collective persons, but, in this case, constituted by the owners themselves, under the Co-operative Code, or management association of continuous rustic buildings, subline, continuous, area not exceeding 50 ha each, with a minimum territorial area of 100 ha and a maximum of 5000 ha. With small owners collectively managing areas with sufficient size to be profitable and where their own plots are covered, it will certainly be very difficult for them to be targeted by any vessel, either by economic failure or by any other route. Only with the aggregated properties on a single forest plan will it be possible to order them, diversify the forest mosaic and, now, create the objective basis that enables the realization of the many and good legislative measures that never came out of the paper. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we therefore propose that the Decree-Law No 66 / 2017 welcomes the creation of UGF and provides for them robust public support, a determined bet in the future of the forest, supported by the involvement of thousands of rural owners and their families and also of producer associations, without which nothing substantial will change in rural areas.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u264	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u265	Even to finish, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I dare say that without UGF there will be no serious forest reform. It's in your hands now. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u266	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Maurício Marques has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u267	Mr President, Minister for Agriculture, Forests and Rural Development, Mr. State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs and Forests and Rural Development, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. Members: The Parliamentary appreciation that is being discussed today allows, once again, to bring the debate a topic of vital importance to the socio-economic development of the country. Sadly, we are aware that the forest is handed over to the Left Block. If there were any doubts, they were clarified by the episode that had just taken place.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u268	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u269	The Left Block was the Government's spokesperson on the justification for this lack of consideration by the Assembly of the Republic.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u270	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u271	But this parliamentary assessment also makes it clear that the government and the majority that supports it have found to justify incompetence in the fight against fires in 2017 and 2016. We have had the opportunity to say that a reform of the forest is not in the morning, nor is it running, much less against the agents of the sector. A serious reform is involved all, especially those who reside with it, work in it and live in it. That is exactly what has not happened, which now leads a parliamentary group to support the Government to request the parliamentary review of a recently published Decree-Law. The approval of this parliamentary assessment is the recognition that the speedy way of the topic was dealt with has no consistency or strategy for a proper forestry arrangement. We understand that it is inappropriate to create a forest management entity with parcels without territorial continuity, scattered across the national territory. We now recognize, as in the past, that we can and should enhance the size of the property to be managed, in order to facilitate and promote a true forestry arrangement. For us, productivity and profitability of the forest are essential, because only with profitability can we achieve the goals that we all aspire to. But we cannot and should not blame the forest for the events that we all regret. We know the arguments of the parliamentary left, that left that today has governmental responsibility: PS, PSP or, better, PCP and Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u272	Also the GNR, the SEF...!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u273	The arguments they present do not have any basis, for we well know that the settlements that were at the origin of the recent fires have more than a decade and, in some cases, many decades. to the Left Block I remember what he said in far less serious circumstances than today's. I quote: "We know that weather conditions are an important variable in the number of forest fires, but it is not legitimate to blame only the weather conditions, as the government is trying to do. Government incompetence cannot find justification in meteorology. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u274	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u275	I'm done now, Mr. President. In addition: the Government and the parties that support it, the parties of the left parliament, cannot hold the forest and its owners accountable for the events that we all regret. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u276	You now have the floor for an intervention by Mr João Ramos of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u277	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for Agriculture, Forests and Rural Development and Mr Sr. State Secretaries of Parliamentary Affairs and Forests and Rural Development: Proper forest management is essential to reduce the tragedy of forest fires. It is essential that the forest make the contribution it can make to rural development that the country lacks so much. The CFP Parliamentary Group has come to say that the best way to stimulate adequate forest management is through a fair payment of its main production: wood. This has been the insistence of the CFP — often alone — which, in fact, presented draft resolution No 993 / XIII at the last legislative session entitled « Proposes solutions to the problems of wood production ». Valuation and fair payment of wood are the first and main measure to stimulate adequate management. Therefore, the CFP is not accompanying and has not been accompanying measures to encourage management solely based on the revenues and abdication of government revenue. In this situation there are measures that go through the allocation of tax benefits as a way, often unique, of stimulating the forest. It was in this context and with this concern that the CFP Parliamentary Group presented proposals for the elimination of Articles 5. it's 9. the Decree-Law under consideration, seeking, in the process of specialty, to intervene so that the Decree-Law is an effective stimulus to forest management, but in an appropriate and fair way. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u278	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Francisco Rocha, of the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u279	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: Forest areas are an important endogenous resource, whose efficient management can be a lever for national economic development. For this reason, the forest in Portugal must all of us require a long-term vision and an inclusive perspective, in economic, social and environmental terms, that will enable us to overcome the structural problems that are identified. Parliamentary debate should reflect this global view, more consistent with the nature and dimension of the problem. This is not the vision that the PSD once again brought to this House.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u280	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u281	thus that this initiative of the Left Block should be framed and understood within this logic: improving what can be improved, adding solutions, models and alternative forms of joint management of forest spaces, without violating the spirit and coherence of the Law Decree already in force. Again, in this debate, the PSD did not solve this problem of lack of appearance and reading these problems. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Planning, management and scale continue to be key words in this process. The rational and active option for the abandonment of the holding is almost always assumed when that economic value is low and does not allow sufficient remuneration for forest management activities. However, an increase in productivity can only be achieved through active forestry management and, we all know, the management of the active management of the landfill issue. Similarly, the economic sustainability of the farms requires access to units of the farm with dimensions adapted to each territorial context, which, as it is known, is a very important obstacle in the national context, knowing that private property is extremely fragmented, especially to the north of the Tagus. In the absence of economic viability of the holding, the incentive to abandon the crop prevails. Therefore, the essential thing for the forest to be what it can be and we want it to be the creation of economic value and its ability to pay for its management. However, we know that the investment context in this sector reveals increased risk, delayed return times and uncertain profitability. therefore, before this initiative of the Left Block, we reaffirm our willingness to, in the discussion on the specialty, find more and more effective ways to bring together an excessively fragmented private property, but also to tackle the problem of land without known owner, creating incentives both to associativeism, and to corporate and group management, which also allow to respond to the recommendations of the Independent Technical Commission, in the part concerning the planning and management of our forest, page 163 of the Report, whose reading is careful, especially to the fans of the liberalisation of eucalyptus plantation.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u282	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u283	We are all aware that the reversal of the abandonment of the territory and the revitalization of the rural economy should be based on cross- and long-term policies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u284	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, from the CDS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u285	Mr President, Minister for Agriculture, Forests and Rural Development, Mr. State Secretaries of Parliamentary Affairs and Forests and Rural Development: The CDS has since criticised the way this forest reform has been done and has raised several criticisms, in particular regarding the Government's proposal that gave rise to this Decree-Law. in this sense, we appreciate the opportunity that the Left Block brings back to discuss this subject in the field of specialty. However, we do not agree with much of the proposals that the Left Block has for its forest management units. I would like to point out that we agree with two essential points of this parliamentary assessment: firstly, the fact that the diploma leaves out the possibility of forest associations as a forest management entity—which, in fact, we have always criticized—because it ignores and devalues the work of decades of the forest associative movement and also contrary, the very exposition of reasons of the Decree-Law, which refers to creating incentives so that the management entities of the ZIFs (forest intervention zones) can evolve to forest management entities. Secondly, we also believe that the fact that the diploma does not force the areas under management to be contiguous or at least continuous does not enable the objectives of encouraging joint management, so essential for better forest management and its profitability. I give an example: it makes no sense a forest management entity to have 20 ha small property in Viseu, another 20 ha in Mirandela, another 10 ha in Leiria, and then will have 50 ha complete in Évora and become a forest management entity. How does this contribute to the proper management of the forest? It doesn't make any sense, Minister! As for the other types of arguments mentioned here, such as forest certification, we understand that it is a path because it is the guarantor of a well-managed forest and a better appreciation of wood. As for the participation of financial funds or large-scale owners or businesses in the sector, we also have no prejudices, because we believe that they are good examples of forest management. In short, we believe that this will be an opportunity to improve the Government's diploma. We hope that the left-wing parties will be able to make a serious and exempt assessment of the contributions that are given and not only their own, but also on the part of the Government. I take this opportunity to say that we are looking forward to the discussion of the proposal for a law of the Government on the Statute for Tax Benefits, so important and complementary to this diploma, which was adjourned by the Left Block and to which the CDS has already tabled amendments. Mr Minister, we recall that if this debate is not held before the discussion of the State Budget for 2018, we are « pushing with the belly », by 2019, the tax benefits to the forest. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u286	For an intervention on behalf of the Government, Mr. Minister for Agriculture, Forests and Rural Development.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u287	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I want to leave a greeting to the Left Block for having decided to appreciate this Decree-Law of the Government, which is already in place, but I am sure that it has done so in order to improve and incorporate positive contributions into it. As far as I know of the proposals, I will say that on the part of the Government I do not see, even if this is a matter for the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, any problem with its approval. Just as I hope that the proposals which Mrs Patrícia Fonseca has just conveyed to us orally may have a formal expression, because I believe that they also have positive contributions. However, this shows more and more that the reform of the forest will extend its consensual area — indeed, reinforced yesterday in the report of the Independent Technical Commission, which advocates, in relation to the issues of forest management and planning, the solutions that the Government has already adopted in the context of what we have agreed to call « the beginning of forest reform ». I regret that Mr Mauricio Marques and his party continue to be in a position of obstruction and not in a constructive position, because the only criticism I have heard from him was that the government was in a great hurry — however, it took one year — to build the reform. Now, if you think of a short period of time, I now understand why nothing has been done about this in the previous four years of your Government. [[P.S. and BE Members' Applause.]] So we're on our way. The proposals presented here are positive contributions that the Government will receive in the spirit it has shown since the beginning, which is to make this a subject of great national consensus, because Portuguese society so demands of us. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u288	Mrs. Members, announce that they have been submitted by the Left Block Parliamentary Groups and the PCP proposals for amendment, which together with Decree-Law No 66 / 2017 have been reduced to 7. the Commission. Mrs. Members, excluding the electoral votes, we turn to the sixth and last item of our agenda, with the appreciation of draft resolutions Nos 1056 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Increase in national minimum wage ( CFP ), 1072 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — National minimum wage ( The Greens) and 1073 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — By increasing the national minimum wage ( NAP ). To initiate the debate and present the draft resolution of the CFP, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u289	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In Portugal, living with the national minimum wage is a permanent test of survival. It is no novelty for anyone that the low wages, in particular the value of the national minimum wage, do not win the structural cause of poverty among those who work. Almost a third of the people in poverty are workers who earn wages that are not enough to meet the basic costs. In March 2017, there were about 730 000 workers who received the national minimum wage and the percentage of women with the minimum wage is much higher than that of men: 28, 9 % to 18, 5 %. The national minimum wage is a conquest of the April Revolution and has now represented a very significant improvement in the living conditions of workers, but, over the decades, it has been profoundly devalued with updates below the increase in average income and consumer price index. Between 2011 and 2014 it was frozen. Workers who take the national minimum wage survive monthly with 495 euros net and 557 € net.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u290	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u291	And it should be remembered that, if it had been updated, considering inflation and increased productivity, today the national minimum wage would exceed 1000 €. Regardless of the planned update, inseparable from the struggle of workers, value is clearly insufficient, does not allow the recovery of purchasing power and the fight against poverty. Portugal maintains one of the lowest national minimum wages in Europe, even in view of the 14-month remuneration, and is at risk of further delay, particularly with regard to Spain. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen: The evolution of the distribution of wealth in our country represents a scandalous concentration of wealth: 1% of the population has 25% of the wealth and 5% of the population accumulates about 50% of the national wealth. It is precisely to ensure a fairer distribution of wealth, to combat poverty and to dynamize the economy that the increase to 600 € of the national minimum wage is so important. And it's not worth talking about the swindling argument of costs for companies and counterparts for employers. The remuneration is only 18 % in the company cost structure, far below other energy costs, fuels, telecommunications, credit or insurance. The development of the country requires the real increase in wages, the fight against precariousness and deregulation of working hours and the end of the expiry of collective bargaining. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The reality has dismantled prophetic speeches on the catastrophic impacts resulting from the increase in the minimum wage that would announce possible closures of hundreds of companies and thousands of layoffs. Regardless of agreements on phased increases by 2019, there is no reason to justify the maintenance of the national minimum wage below 600 € already in January 2018. For this reason, the PCP advocates an extraordinary increase in the national minimum wage to 600 € in January 2018. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u292	For an intervention on behalf of the Green Parliamentary Group, Mr José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u293	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In March of this year, the International Labour Organization presented a report analysing data from 133 countries between 1995 and 2014, which concluded among other points that Portugal is one of the most unequal countries, particularly in wage values, with very negative social and economic consequences. The same report states that, in order to reverse the overall situation, of falling between the actual value of the wage in the national income of each country, there is a need for greater regulation of the labour market by strengthening collective bargaining and increasing the minimum wage. We recall that in 2016 more than 650 000 workers earned the national minimum wage, making Portugal one of the countries of the whole European Union with the highest wage inequality and where there is a higher percentage of poor workers or at risk of poverty. As we know, the minimum wage was frozen between 2011 and 2014. In other words, the PSD/CDS government, contrary to what was established, has spent four years without any update of the national minimum wage — four years without any update. In fact, only at the end of 2014 did the previous government make a slight increase in the minimum wage and yet it ended up serving as an exchange rate for employers to pay less than a single social rate. That is, four years after taking possession, the PSD / CDS government made a slight increase in October 2014, reaching a value that should have been implemented on 1 January 2011. Accounts made, we're four years late. On a proposal from the current government, the minimum wage value was increased twice to €530 in 2016, and €557 in 2017. Even so, the national minimum wage remains very low — in fact, it is sufficient to see that today the minimum wage is less than what was worth in 1974. In real terms, the national minimum wage is currently less than 10 % than what it has been worth 40 years. It is therefore very low, and it is low at all levels: it is low when compared to the minimum wage of the other countries of the European Union; it is low, when we make a reading of social inequalities in our country; and it is low, to spray to unsustainability, when we look at the cost of life of the Portuguese. In fact, the situation is hopeless for the generality of Portuguese families in the face of the level of cost of living and the purchasing power with which they live. And it is not necessary to make large accounts to conclude that 557 euros net for a wage even if minimum is a value too low to ensure the basic needs of each and each of the families living with the national minimum wage. Moreover, the exploitation of wages in general and that of the national minimum wage, in particular, is a decisive factor for a fair distribution of wealth and for the improvement of the living conditions of those working, is still a decisive element for economic recovery, for the dynamisation of domestic demand and for job creation, which continues to be urgent. in this context, The Greens consider it absolutely imperative to place the value of the national minimum wage in the 600 € already from the beginning of next year to, in the future, carry out their annual or ordinary increases. It is with this conviction that the Greens present their legislative initiative to ensure that the Government takes the necessary measures to ensure that, in January next year, the value of the national minimum wage is set at 600 € per month. It is now to be hoped that the remaining banks will accompany us in this just proposal and that they will not take refuge in social dialogue in order to make it impossible, because this House has all the legitimacy to decide on this matter. This is the right place for this decision! [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u294	For an intervention, Mr André Silva, of the NAP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u295	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: By fulfilling the commitment made in our electoral programme for the last legislative elections, we discussed today a NAP project aimed at increasing the national minimum wage to 600 € monthly in January 2018. Portugal is one of the countries of Europe with a lower minimum wage, with several countries with wages above 1000 € per month. On the other hand, according to data from the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ) for the year 2013, Portugal is only behind Greece in the ranking of the countries that work most in Europe, with almost 40 hours a week, well above the European Union average, which is just over 37 hours. Data from the OECD 2016 also show that Portuguese workers work 1868 hours a year, more than the average of OECD countries. Thus, even though Portuguese workers are the ones who work the most hours weekly and annually, they are also those who take the lowest wages, either because the national minimum wage is the lowest in Europe, either because it ultimately conditions the value of all other wages, which justifies that Portugal has been recently disclosed as the country of the European Union with a minimum wage closer to the average wage. For the NAP it is necessary to give workers a fair payment for their work, bringing the Portuguese minimum wage closer to European values. We must not forget that the cost of living in Portugal has been rising, and the wages taken must follow this development. In addition, we must always walk towards improving existing working conditions, seeking to have happier and more motivated workers, our understanding that better salaries contribute to this fact, and also having significant impacts on the dynamisation of businesses and the national economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u296	Mr Pedro Roque, from the PSD, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u297	H.E. Mr. President, Mrs. Deputies and Mrs. Members: The CFP, The Greens and the NAP present draft resolutions on the same subject — the increase of the national minimum wage in 2018, from the current €557 to the 600 €. It seems equal, however, we would like to safeguard a very important difference: although it is difficult to balance the social dialogue, since it imposes, a priori, the value of 600 €, the draft resolution of the NAP demonstrates, however, respect for social consultation by recommending that the Government, and I quote, « negotiate with the social partners in order to proceed to the increase of the national minimum wage of the current 557 € to 600 € in January 2018 ». However, on the side of the PCP and its parliamentary satellite, nothing new: its draft resolutions reveal the same disrespect for social consultation, which has always been demonstrated since the creation of this body. For today's communists, as for the 100-year-old Bolshevisists in Petrograd, the class struggle is decisive and constitutes the foundation of a whole philosophical theorization that is at the base of an ideological building around the work, but which paradoxically and in practice does not defend it. Moreover, the historical dynamics themselves have been entrusted with the preservation of this ideology.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u298	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u299	This speech is an old history!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u300	For us, on the other hand, the reconciliation of interests between business and work, since there is a common interest and not an antagonism, is fundamental to a social market economy. It is at the basis of economic and social development. Therefore, the PSD, by consistently accepting the intrinsic value of social consultation and by understanding that the subjects relating to the national minimum wage and its updating are constituents of the structured social dialogue, believes that it is the body, only that organ and not more than that organ, which is responsible, in a negotiating spirit, to find the most appropriate value, taking into account the need to strengthen labour incomes, business interests and the competitiveness of the economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u301	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u302	The worst service that this Parliament or the Government can provide to the Portuguese economy will be to declare an update on the national minimum wage that does not respect social consultation and that does not take these balances into account that are decisive.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u303	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u304	I will finish, Mr. President. Therefore, in accordance with the above, we shall vote against the recommendations made to the Government on this matter. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u305	Mr José Moura Soeiro has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u306	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The increase in the minimum wage, which has already been said, is a central issue from the point of view of the distribution of wealth, the dignity of work and also from the economic point of view. The increase in the minimum wage was therefore a central issue for the Left Block since the beginning of this political solution. It was not by chance that the Left Block required to enter into the agreement signed with the Socialist Party in 2015 that the minimum wage would reach at least €600 in this legislature and that each year would increase at least 5%. This agreement written with the Left Block has proved essential that, in the face of the pressure of the employers and their scandal over the emptying of the social agreement and the investments of the European institutions that opposed this increase, it would be impossible for the Government to withdraw from this commitment, and the Left Block is proud of the force it has made on this matter. The increase in the minimum wage is essential for several reasons which have already been exposed here, as I have said, because of the dignity of those who work. The devalue of work is inconsequential from an economic and social point of view and the increase in minimum wage is a fundamental measure to combat a phenomenon that offends the country, which is the phenomenon of wage poverty, that there are people who work and who, even with their wages, live below the threshold of poverty. The increase in minimum wage is a fundamental measure to combat the fierce inequalities that exist in the distribution of income and is also a fundamental measure from the point of view of economic good sense. The increase in the minimum wage was an element of income recovery that had an economic role in the dynamisation of domestic demand, which is essential for small and medium-sized enterprises that depend on the internal market. That is why the increase in the minimum wage is a contribution to job creation in Portugal. If, today, the bosses retreat on this matter and if the right makes a more round speech on the subject, maintaining, moreover, its fundamental principles, such as the invocation of social consultation and the opposition to the increase of the minimum wage, as will be confirmed today, it is for a simple reason: the theories of the right and the theories of the bosses were desperately denied by reality. The minimum wage was positive from the point of view of job creation, it was good for the country because it was good for people and because it was good for the economy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u307	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u308	It is true that the current minimum wage values, even with these increases, are still too low. It is true that it remains a daily survival exercise to live with the minimum wage. It is true that, compared with the other European countries, Portugal is in a place that shames us. It is also true that we cannot accept that the minimum wage is transformed into a kind of national wage. For this to not happen, we need to add to the increase in the minimum wage the relaunch of collective bargaining and advance in the fight against precariousness. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The employment that has been created in recent years is largely precarious and there is too many workers who take the minimum wage. [[At the moment, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u309	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u310	That is why the Left Block will increase the minimum wage, combat precariousness and collective bargaining central axes of its intervention. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u311	Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u312	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS knows that the minimum wage continues to be very important for a significant number of Portuguese families and, since its increase last year, it is for even more families. These are the families that worry us. Furthermore, the CDS considers, as it has always considered, that the setting of the value of the national minimum wage is a matter that, firstly, relates to social consultation. [[Protests from PCP MP Jorge Machado.]] This was the case in 2006 when the Socialist Party agreed, in social consultation, to increase the minimum wage up to €500 in 2011, according to what was the PS that failed when it frozen the minimum wage. In fact, it was the PSD and CDS government that frozen the minimum wage and managed to do so in social consultation. I recall that this Government is supported by the PS, the Left Block, the CFP and the Greens, and I also remember that it was the PS Government that reached the agreement to increase the minimum wage also in social consultation. But what happened? The PS did not guarantee the parliamentary support of its partners in relation to the agreement it had reached in social consultation. The Left Block, the PCP and the Greens have made the counterparty that was negotiated by the supporting government and that counterpart, as they well remember, was the TSU (unique social rate) discount. So again they presented draft resolutions to raise the minimum wage and we ask ourselves: what will the PS do? Are you going to do what you did last year without ensuring the support of your parliamentary partners? It is important to remember why the increase in the minimum wage should be made in social consultation: whoever pays wages is the companies, it is the economy, it is not even the Members. Ladies and gentlemen, not the government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u313	Who sets it up is the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u314	We therefore believe that it is in social consultation that this negotiation of the increase in the minimum wage should be carried out. We do not fail to acknowledge, however, that there is only one draft resolution which refers to social dialogue. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u315	For an intervention, Mrs Sonia Fertuzinhos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u316	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this debate, I leave three very simple notes on the increase in the national minimum wage. The first note is to point out that in its Programme the Government has made a commitment to ensure by 2019 the minimum wage increase up to 600 €. And it was for this purpose that the minimum wage increased in 2016, increased in 2017 and will be increased again in 2018 and 2019 to achieve this objective. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the draft resolutions we are discussing today reflect, and firstly, the common objective of a large majority of this House to increase the national minimum wage to 600 €.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u317	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u318	The second note is to say that we defend the increase in the minimum wage in the name of dignity which is due to those who work, in the name of the reduction in the poverty of workers and their families, in the name of the defence of future pensions and the sustainability of public social security, is to defend the most important dimensions of the increase in the minimum wage up to 600 €.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u319	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u320	However, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is important to highlight and repeat every time we talk about the valuation of the minimum wage, defended by the Government, the PS and the current parliamentary majority, that significant value and increase the minimum wage is the central point of a political choice regarding the model of economic and social development in our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u321	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u322	A political choice to promote a model of economic and social development in our country based on the value of wages and rejects at all wage devaluation in the name of any increase in competitiveness. [[P.S.'s applause.]] A political choice to promote a model of economic and social development in our country based on the reduction of social inequalities and poverty and which rejects at all the impoverishment of the country and people in the name of the need for budgetary consolidation. But, above all, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, a political choice to promote a model of economic and social development in our country which has already proved that it is possible to increase the minimum wage and, at the same time, to reduce unemployment and increase employment; it has proved that it is possible to increase the minimum wage, consolidate public accounts and raise our economy; and it has proved that it is possible to increase the minimum wage and involve the social partners in creating sustainable conditions for this increase. Because, yes, sir. Mr.António Carlos Monteiro and Pedro Roque, all the increases in the minimum wage that have been made so far have been made with the agreement in the social consultation. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Finally, the third note is to say that this debate on the increase in the minimum wage in all its dimensions is another opportunity to reaffirm what unites this parliamentary majority since the first day: the political will and the sense of responsibility of the PS to build, with the current parliamentary majority, a better country, which makes education, knowledge, innovation, the value of wages, the reduction of poverty and social inequalities based on our economy and decent society that we do not give up. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u323	For a second intervention, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u324	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is to the Government and not to social consultation that the national minimum wage should be fixed. That is why the proposal we are bringing here is this. There is no single argument that in January 2018 the national minimum wage should not be fixed in the 600 €. There is no argument of an economic and social nature that contradicts this will. This alone determines the political will to devote the national minimum wage from January 2018 to the 600 €. from the PCP, we would like to remember that whenever it was to cut and remove rights it was in the Assembly of the Republic that decided with majority and with governments of the PS, PSD and CDS. Why is it that when we are discussing a measure to combat poverty, to dynamize the economy, it cannot also be the Assembly of the Republic to decide on it? [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u325	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u326	I conclude, Mr President, by saying that we believe it is crucial to guarantee the national minimum wage at 600 € from January 2018. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u327	We are now at the end of this debate. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to the voting period. I request the services to prepare the electronic registration of Members of Parliament and of the Members of the Commission. Members for quorum verification. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 201 presences, to which are added those of MP Paula Santos, PCP, and Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco, CDS-PP, making 203 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the votes. Let's start with vote No 409 / XIII ( 3. a ) — Despite the death of Pedro Pereira Constantino Romano, the CDS-PP and subscribed by PSDP and PS Members, who will be read by Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u328	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « He died on October 5, at the age of 31, Pedro Pereira Constantino Romano. Natural of Braga, he was a graduate and master in Communication Sciences from the University of Mininho. He began his career in economic journalism in 2008, going through the Economic Diary, the Business Journal and recently the Economic Journal. He created and fed the blog Desvio Colossal. He was an economic and financial adviser to the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP and the Francisco Manuel dos Santos Foundation and currently maintained a collaboration with the CDS-PP. A remarkable intelligence, Pedro Romano was recognized, and despite his youth, one of the best communicators and one of the most promising analysts in the area of economics and finance. His ability to communicate and teach, together with a refined sense of humor, marked all those with him had the privilege of living together. And they'll stay with us forever. As Manuel Esteves wrote in the Business Journal, " Pedro left us and left us behind. But it will remain forever on the horizon of our lives." Meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic presents its deepest condolences to the family, friends, colleagues and everyone with whom it has deprived. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u329	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's keep a minute of silence. I use to send my condolences to the family, who is present in a gallery. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Members, let us turn to vote No 410 / XIII ( 2. ( a) — Welcoming the award of the Nobel Peace Prize to the cause of the prohibition of nuclear weapons by the CFP, which will be read by Secretary Diogo León.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u330	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The award of the Nobel Peace Prize to the International Campaign for the Abolition of Nuclear Weapons (ICAN) should be a contribution to increasing awareness and mobilization around the need and demand for the abolition of nuclear weapons and their non-proliferation, general, simultaneous and controlled disarmament, and peace. The nearly 15 000 nuclear warheads currently in the world pose a serious threat to humanity. Nuclear disarmament is an essential issue for safeguarding the peace, security and survival of humanity. In expressing the aspirations of a world free from the threat of nuclear horror on 7 July, the United Nations Conference to negotiate a legally binding instrument prohibiting nuclear weapons, leading to its total elimination, adopted the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons on the initiative of 122 states. Bearing in mind that the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic advocates the "general, simultaneous and controlled disarmament", sharing the deep concern with the catastrophic consequences that would result from any use of nuclear weapons, and recognizing the consequent need for complete elimination, as the only way to ensure that nuclear weapons will never be used under any circumstances anymore, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session on 13 October, welcomes the award of the Nobel Peace Prize to the International Campaign for the Abolition of Nuclear Weapons and thus the cause of the abolition of nuclear weapons and their non-proliferation, general disarmament, simultaneous and controlled, and peace and welcomes the adoption of the Treaty on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons within the framework of the United Nations. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u331	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, the vote is followed by 412 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Congratulations on the award of the Nobel Peace Prize to the International Campaign for the Abolition of Nuclear Weapons, the NAP and signed by PS Members. We shall proceed to your vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members will then be read vote No 411 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Congratulations for 150 years on the presence of the Congregation of Missionaries of the Holy Spirit in Portugal, PSD, PS and CDS-PP. Mr Pedro Alves will proceed to the reading of this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u332	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « On the next day of November 3 the Congregation of Missionaries of the Holy Spirit signs 150 years of presence in Portugal. The congregation originated in France in the early 18th century, having as founders Cláudio Poullart des Placese and Francisco Libermann. over time it is important to remember great missionaries such as Father Tiago Laval and Father Daniel Brottier. Between statesmen and men of culture, especially in Africa, who were formed by the Missionaries of the Holy Spirit, it is important to mention Leopold Senghor. The Spiritists arrived in Lisbon in 1867. After difficult years, it was Braga to welcome the first training structures of missionaries. The Spiritists contributed to culture in Portuguese society, especially with works published in the fields of history, ethnology, linguistics, anthropology, theology and missionary pastoral. these are examples of the priests António Brásio and Adélio Torres Neiva, both of the Portuguese Academy of History, and Joaquim Alves Correia, considered one of the fathers of Portuguese democracy, who was a man of culture, freedom and option by the poorest, having died exiled in the United States. Today, the Spiritists assure animation in various dioceses, form groups of young people in the missionary spirit, invest in communication, collaborate in hospital and prison chapels, support immigrants and refugees. To this end, they launched several lay movements of missionary charis: LIAM ; Missionary Movement of Teachers ( MOMIP ) ; Youth Without Borders ( JSF ) ; Association of the Former Students ( ASES ) ; Associated Spiritist Leigos ; Fraternities ; Zeladores ; Missionary Volunteers. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic met in plenary on 13 October 2017, welcomes the 150 years of presence in Portugal of the Congregation of Missionaries of the Holy Spirit. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u333	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] Mrs. Members, let us vote No 413 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Condemning the mass detention of LGBTI citizens in Azerbaijan, the NAP and subscribed by PS Members. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us turn to vote No 414 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Congratulating on the dialogue and non-violent action of the Government of Catalonia, the NAP, and subscribed by PS Members, which will be read by Secretary Sandra Pontedeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u334	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Last October 1st, Catalans were called to the polls to exercise a fundamental right: that of free expression to self-determination. To the mass mobilization and participation of Catalans and Catalans, carried out in a peaceful and nonviolent manner, the response of the Spanish state was disproportionate repression. At the height of the Catalans' attitude, the Spanish state responded with violence. Even in the face of physical obstacles and institutional adversity, the expression of self-determination was unequivocal and the Catalan parliament was consequently in declaring the independence of the state of Catalonia. However, and considering the importance of maintaining a dialogue with the Spanish state, the Catalan Parliament suspended this statement, revealing once again a responsible and constructive position. This option, contrary to the unilaterality of the Kingdom of Spain, shows that the path chosen by the Catalan people is based on freedom, dialogue, respect between cultures and non-violence. Thus, meeting in plenary, the Assembly of the Republic welcomes the dialogue and non-violent action of the Catalan government. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u335	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP, with votes in favour of BE and PAN and with abstentions from the CFP and the Greens.]] Let us turn to vote No 415 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Condemning the withdrawal of the limit of carbon emissions from the coal-fired U.S. plants of the NAP, which will be read by Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u336	Mr. President and Mr. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « Donald Trump's current government has again undermined the way for an energy transition in the United States of America with the proposal to revoke the energy plan called Clean Power Plan. This plan, implemented by the previous Administration, was intended to limit carbon emissions from coal-fired power plants and reduce US CO2 emissions by 32 % by 2030. After this decision, Scott Pruitt, responsible for the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, reported that the war on coal had ended. With this position, the US ensures that the Paris Agreement is not complied with and confirms that the targets will not be met to ensure that the global average temperature increase remains within the 2°C line above pre-industrial levels. After the exit of the Paris Agreement, there is the worsening of US extractivism and productionism, our allied country, which departs definitively and consciously from the urgent environmental protection of the planet. These are signs of ideological isolationism that not only breaks cooperation among peoples, but also undermines the foundations of geopolitical alliances. Thus, meeting in plenary, the Assembly of the Republic expresses its condemnation of the intention of revoking the Clean Power Plan by the US administration. Do not keep on seeking. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u337	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u338	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u339	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u340	Mr President, it is to announce that the CFP Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on this last vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u341	Mrs. Deputy, you're registered. Mrs. Members, we proceed to the general vote on Bill No 172 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Possibility of permit of animals in commercial establishments ( amends Decree-Law No 10 / 2015, 16 January ) ( PAN ). [[Submitted to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN, votes against the Deputies of the PS Maria da Luz Rosinha and Wanda Guimarães and the CDS-PP Ilda Araújo Novo and abstentions from the PSD, the Deputies of PS Helena Roseta, Norberto Patinho and Pedro do Carmo and the Deputies of the CDS-PP Filipe Anacoreta Correia, Isabel Galliça Neto, Patrícia Fonseca and Teresa Caeiro.]] This diploma goes down to 6. the Commission. We shall generally vote for Bill No. 622 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Authorizes the creation of areas of permit to animals in commercial establishments ( second amendment of Decree-Law No 10 / 2015 of 16 January 2015 ) ( BE ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with the vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP and the Greens, the vote against the Member of the CDS-PP Ilda Araújo Novo and abstentions from the PSD, the PAN, the Members of the PS Maria da Luz Rosinha, Pedro do Carmo and Wanda Guimarães and the Members of the CDS-PP Filipe Anacoreta Correia, Isabel Galliça Neto, Patrícia Fonseca and Teresa Caeiro.]] This diploma goes down to 6. the Commission. We proceed to the general vote on Bill No. 623 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — It enables animals to stay in commercial establishments under specific conditions by amending Decree-Law No 10 / 2015 of 16 January ( The Greens ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with the votes in favour of PS, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP and PAN, the vote against the Member of the CDS-PP Ilda Araújo Novo and the abstentions of PS Maria da Luz Rosinha, Pedro do Carmo and Wanda Guimarães.]] This diploma goes down to 6. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u342	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u343	Sir, would you like to speak for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u344	Mr President, it is to announce that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will deliver a statement of vote on the three previous votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u345	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. We shall generally vote for Bill No. 349 / XIII ( 2 : a ) — Approves the status of the police status ( PCP ). [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and votes against the PS.]] This diploma goes down to 1. the Commission. We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1074 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government work towards the recognition of professions relating to criminal police bodies as « rapid wear occupations » ( PAN ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] We are now going to vote on a request by the PSD for a discharge to the Education and Science Commission, without voting for a 60-day period of the projects of lein.o 619 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amends Decree-Law No 55 / 2013 of 17 April approving the organization of the Foundation for Science and Technology, IP ( PSD ), 620 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the Decree-Law No 448 / 79 of 13 November approving the Statute of the University Teacher Career ( PSD ) and 621 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amends Decree-Law No 185 / 81 of 1 July approving the Statute of the College of Political Higher Education ( PSD ) and draft resolutions No 1069 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) - Recommends to the Government the promotion of the employment of doctors in society ( PSD ), 1070 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends the promotion of an intellectual property policy to encourage investment and innovation ( PSD ) and 1071 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the promotion of technology transfer between Universities and Polytechnics and society ( PSD ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u346	I ask Vice-President José Manuel Pureza to replace me again in the presidency. [[Meanwhile, Vice-President José Manuel Pureza was re-chaired.]] Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on Bill No. 614 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 78 / 2017 of 17 August establishing a simplified cadastral information system and repealing Law No 152 / 2015 of 14 September ( PSD ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We proceed to the general vote on Bill No 617 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — First amendment to Law No 78 / 2017 of 17 August establishing a simplified cadastral information system and repealing Law No 152 / 2015 of 14 September ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1062 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends greater support to the Government for forest fire defence investment ( CDS-PP ). [[Put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, the BE, the CDS-PP and the PAN and against the PS, the PCP and the Greens.]] Mrs. Members, we turn to draft resolution No 1076 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government a set of measures for the prevention and protection of forest fires ( BE ). First, let us vote separately on points 1, 5 and 6. [[When put to the vote, votes in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstains were adopted.]] We now vote points 2, 3 and 4. [[When put to the vote, votes were adopted in favour of BE, the CDS-PP, the Greens and the NAP, votes against the CFP and abstentions from the PS and PS.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 471 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government extend the framework for competences, modalities and financing of information offices and support for education for sexual health and education by extending them to higher education and promoting a regular evaluation of the implementation of Law No 60 / 2009 of 6 August ( PS ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We will move on to draft resolution No 1075 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Changes in the scope of information offices and student support and extension of their obligation to higher education ( BE ). The Socialist Party requested the separate vote on point 3. Let us begin by voting on the remaining points, i.e. points 1, 2 and 4. [[When put to the vote, the votes in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP were adopted.]] We shall vote on point 3. [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PS and PS, in favour of BE and the NAP and with abstentions from the CDS-PP, the CFP and the Greens.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1056 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Increase in national minimum wage ( CFP ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and PS Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 1072 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — National minimum wage ( The Greens ). [[Subject to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PSD, the CDS-PP and PS Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1073 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — By increasing the national minimum wage ( NAP ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD, votes in favour of BE and the NAP and abstentions from PS, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u347	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u348	Mr Nuno Magalhães, ask for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u349	Mr President, it is to announce that we will deliver a statement of vote on behalf of the CDS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u350	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u351	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u352	Mr President, it is for the same purpose, but on a personal basis.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u353	Be registered.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u354	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u355	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u356	Mr President, it is also to announce that I will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u357	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. Mrs. Members, we turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1010 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government undertake work at the Basic School 2 / 3 Avelar Brotero, integrated in the Group of Adelaide Cabette Schools, in Odivelas ( PAN ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u358	Mr President, may I take the floor?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u359	Do you ask for the floor to what effect, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u360	Mr President, I would like to correct our sense of vote, which I think has been poorly recorded. I refer to the vote on draft resolution No 1073 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The increase in the national minimum wage ( NAP) which the CFP voted for.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u361	You are right, Mr, there was a delay in the Bureau. Therefore, draft resolution No 1073 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) votes against the PSD were rejected, votes in favour of BE, PCP and PAN, and abstentions from PS, CDS-PP and Greens. We moved on to draft resolution No 970 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures for the valuation of low commercial fish ( CFP ) for which the NAP requested the separate vote of points 1 and 2 and then of point 3. Let us first vote on points 1 and 2 of the motion for a resolution. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Let us now vote on point 3. [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PS, the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens and votes against the NAP.]] We shall vote on draft resolution No 971 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the development of campaigns to stimulate the consumption of carolin rice produced in Portugal ( CFP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The vote was followed by draft resolution No 1057 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Renewal of contracts for specialist technicians in spring 2017 / 2018 ( CFP ). [[The vote was put to the vote and votes against the PS were rejected in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1049/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government publish, by city hall, the burning areas in large forest fires ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PSD, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and the NAP and the PS abstention.]] Mrs. Members, I think we can vote together on two requests submitted by BE and the CFP respectively, asking the Committee on Labour and Social Security to be discharged without voting for a period of 90 days of its draft lein. 496 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Amendments to the legal-laborative regime and extension of social protection of work by shift and night ( BE) and 508 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strengthen the rights of workers in the night and shift work system ( CFP ). [[Pause.]] No objection, let's vote. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] We shall now vote on a request by BE for a vote by the plenary of its proposals for amendments to Articles 3. o, 3. o -A, 6. it's 13. the final text, submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security, on the proposal for a law No 91 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — establishes the programme for the extraordinary regularisation of precarious links. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's open up a debate period, for consideration, in the specialty...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u362	Mr. President, if I may...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u363	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u364	Mr President, there is another request by the CFP on the same subject, so we could vote on it now and then have the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u365	Of course, Mr. Deputies. We shall then vote on a request by the PCP for a vote by the plenary of its proposals for amendments to Articles 2. o, 3. it's 13. the addition of Article 5. o -A to the same final text. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us therefore open a debate period, each two-minute parliamentary group. You have the floor, first of all, for an intervention, Mr José Moura Soeiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u366	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The adoption of the law establishing the extraordinary regularization of the State's precarious links is a historic moment that gives shape to a fundamental measure of justice for thousands of workers, to whom, for too many years, basic labour rights, stability and social protection are denied. The Left Block is therefore proud to have included the fight against precariousness as a condition of the agreement for a political solution and to make this issue an untiring struggle in recent years, which indeed continues.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u367	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u368	in this process, it was most important to mobilize the precarious workers themselves, the pressure they have made, the assemblies made by the country, the contributions that they have sent us, the visibility that they have given to the specificity of their situations, their urgency, their persistence and their demand, as the work done by the Members of the Left Block, the Socialist Party and the Portuguese Communist Party to improve and correct the government's diploma. In this Parliament there was one who gave his voice to the claims of the precariouss and, even if those claims always had the right opposition, in each of the proposals to improve his life, there was the possibility of making improvements in the protection of contracts, in the transparency of the process for trainees or universities. Of course, for the Left Block, this final version could still be improved, and that is why we bring here to the vote four proposals that allow us to respond to specific aspects: ensuring budget transfers to universities, depending on the precariouss identified ; ensuring that not only full-time trainers but also part-time trainers are regularised ; ensuring that fellows have a career that corresponds to their functions and safeguard their incomes; and ensuring that regional programme technicians are linked to regional coordination committees. Any of these issues can still be included in the diploma, it is enough that the honourable Members. Members of the Socialist Party, the PSD and the CDS stand up and approve them. This vote gives us a final opportunity to answer these people. It is therefore in our hands, so it is, above all, in your hands, and they are still in time. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u369	You have the floor now, too, for an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u370	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The last process of regulating precarious links in the Public Administration took place 20 years ago, which well reflects the injustice to which these thousands of workers were subject, with less wages, less rights and more instability. With the avocado of these articles, the CFP aims to ensure that no worker who responds to permanent needs in public services is out of the process. We propose that all workers with precarious links that respond to permanent needs may participate in this process of regularization. We propose that all those who have submitted a request be covered, but also all those who have not submitted a request and are fundamental to carrying out permanent needs. We propose the obligation to draw up the services of the list of workers with precarious links and their delivery to the representative structures of the workers who participated in the CAB ( bipartite evaluation committees ). We propose that the workers of the operational programmes and the structural funds be integrated into the services of the CCDRs (coordination and regional development committee) where they are currently performing functions. And we propose to the management, science and technology fellows the creation of a transitional period for obtaining the degree of doctor, in order to ensure their link in the career of scientific research, ensuring that there are no remuneration losses. from the PCP, we continue to state that there are no quality public services without adequate number of workers and valued in their rights. It was worth the struggle of the workers. There is still a lot to be done to ensure that each permanent job corresponds to an effective bond in Public and Private Administration. The fight for employment with rights is a struggle for the democratic regime, and the CFP will continue in this fight. [[Congratulations on the PCP and BE Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u371	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Wanda Guimarães.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u372	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As coordinator of the PREVPAP's working group ( Special Regularization Programme for Precarious Links in Public Administration ), I want to leave some notes. First of all, I would like to make it clear that we are not going to pronounce ourselves on the legal articles, which have already been subjected to an extensive and deep debate in the working group. In fact, the position of the Socialist Party is known. Secondly, I would like to express our satisfaction that we have met another point in the Government Programme, implementing a special programme for regularising the precarious links in the Public Administration, which has been maintained for more than 20 years. Thirdly, we would like to congratulate ourselves on having heard a considerable set of entities and organizations, incorporating in this proposal many of their concerns. Fourthly, we would like to thank the Left Block and the Portuguese Communist Party for having entered this joint effort, contributing to a greater quality of Bill No. 91 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). Fifthly, we wanted to regret that the PSD and the CDS, intertwined in their usual Azedume, have contributed nothing to the group's work, not presenting a single proposal, not accepting a single paragraph and systematically denying the political objective of this initiative, going to the climax of accusing the precarious workers of having gone to chains to be employed. [[Congrats from the PS and the BE Member José Moura Soeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u373	What a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u374	In the sixth and last place, I would like to say that, for the Socialist Party, this is at the same time a point of arrival and a point of departure: for the many thousands of workers and their families who will finally be able to rest without the spectrum of dismissal or instability; and for the PS, there is no obligation to solve the problem and to eradicate situations that shame a democratic society. Let's continue our work! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u375	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Carla Barros.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u376	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are watching at the moment, between the Left Block, the PCP and the Socialist Party, a great set-up, a great deal of account for this programme for the regularization of precarious workers in the Public Administration. We have seen precisely, and it has been almost two years, that you, committed to this negative coalition for the country, promise each of the 116 000 workers who have identified their integration into the Public Administration. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u377	And, in the face of this negative coalition, the PSD intends to leave some alerts here. It should be noted that, with this proposal, which is no longer an opaque, credible, weightless and unmeasured proposal, workers will have income breaks almost 50 %. [[BE's laughs.]] You will say goodbye, you are creating injustices and inequalities between workers who have been with precarious links and recently admitted workers for decades! — by this Government. In addition to this difference in treatment, inequality and injustice for public administration workers, it should also be noted that you did not have any budgetary impact on this proposal. They also did not present any diagnosis of human resource needs where workers are needed. We do not know what you intend to do with the management of human resources of the Public Administration. It is also important to say that you have not been able to frame this proposal in a genuine reform of the Public Administration,... [[Protests from BE and PCP.]] ... capable of motivating workers, capable of becoming faster...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u378	You want to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u379	I will finish, yes, Mr. President. As I was saying, you were unable to frame this proposal in a genuine reform of the Public Administration, capable of motivating workers, able to become faster and more modern for citizens and businesses. That is why we have ended by saying that you are in a position of true political hypocrisy for both the workers and the country, and we must denounce this.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u380	You have to finish, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u381	Workers can count on PSD, as they have so far. [[PSD applause.]] [[Rice from BE and PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u382	Mr António Carlos Monteiro has the floor now, too, for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u383	Today is the day of the Public Enemy in the Hemicycle!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u384	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, at this very advanced stage of our work, I would be grateful if we could create conditions for Mr António Carlos Monteiro to be able to make his speech. You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u385	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Precautionary concerns families and also the CDS. [[Ui!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u386	Now, we remember that the agreement that was concluded between PS, Left Block, PCP and The Greens, and that provided support for this government solution, placed as a condition the regularization of precariouss. We do not fail to note that, when a study was conducted to identify these situations, the Government identified 116 000 — indeed, PCP and Block said that the number would be above that — and the truth is that at the moment only 30 000 requirements are being processed. [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]] We agree that, for those who have promised so much, it is little. [[Protests by BE Member Jorge Duarte Costa.]] We also understand the feeling of frustration of many citizens to whom PS, Left Block and PCP promised, and they promised a lot. In fact, we keep recording that they've been promising everything to everyone and that now what they have to give is much less than what they've been promising. We also note that, for those who have placed the end of precariousness as a condition,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u387	Are you going to vote in favour or against?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u388	... this government, which you support, has increased the number of precariouss by almost 15 000 over these two years of governance. We also note that they want to do this regularization without the reform of the State and also that what was envisaged in your proposal, in the proposal that the Government brought here, were due cuts and that those who did not accept those cuts were dismissed. PSD, CDS and PCP voted against this proposal. And what do the PS and the Left Block tell us? That it is indifferent that they have voted against this dismissal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u389	What dismissal? Don't say nonsense!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u390	... because, through the General Law on Public Works will be able to « run with these people».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u391	I ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u392	I will finish by saying that, when you want to integrate the precariouss, this one eventually translates into layoffs,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u393	Ladies and gentlemen, they've been firing people!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u394	... in particular workers who are part-time, because for each of them only one vacancy will be available and there will be a worker, who is part-time, who will have to be fired. I would like you to tell us if that is the solution that you have for precariousness.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u395	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr José Luís Ferreira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u396	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Despite the indisputable discomfort of the PSD and the CDS, the truth is that today we are going to take an important step not only to restore justice but also to put truth in labor relations. Despite the concerns of the PSD and CDS in this area, what is true is that, from a few years to a few, but especially with the previous government, with the PSD/CDS government, precariousness has taken account of the reality of work in our country. In fact, the political options based on low wages and on dutyless work, which marked the policy of the previous Government, as well as the various legislative amendments on labour, were indeed decisive factors for the generalization of labour insecurity in our country, for the degradation of working conditions and for the weakening of labour rights. In this regard, it is always appropriate to remember that, when we talk about job insecurity, we talk about working relationships outside the law, we talk about dealing with the rights of those who work, we talk about violations of fundamental rights, we talk about degradation of working conditions and we talk about increasing levels of exploitation. These are the facts, the numbers are even more cruel. In our country, more than one million people work with precarious links, whether with term contracts, which are grossly illegal, whether with green receipts, who only disguise a supposed service delivery regime, whether with eternal research scholarships, which no longer aim at perpetuating precariousness, or with temporary employment contracts, in clear comparison with the most basic rules of labour law, because nothing has to be temporary. This is the work portrait of our country and this was the work portrait we inherited from previous governments and, above all, the last government, the PSD government and the CDS. A portrait of lies, falsehoods and dissimulations, with the sole purpose of misleading unemployment statistics, institutionalizing work without rights and emphasizing the exploitation of those who work. A portrait also of intervals, because the periods of precariousness, short or long, invariably ranged with periods of unemployment: a few precarious months, a few months without work, this was the rhythm that the previous government imposed on young people who did not follow the advice of Passos Coelho to seek comfort outside our country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u397	I ask you to finish, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u398	I will finish, Mr. President. The worst thing is that it was the State that set an example in this matter. In good time, therefore, the Greens Ecological Party also included this matter, an essential premise, in the joint position it has established with the Socialist Party and today we are actually taking an important step in restoring justice and truth in working relations in our country. [[Congratulations from Os Verdes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u399	We shall therefore proceed to the vote on articles of the final text, presented by the Committee on Labour and Social Security, on the proposal for a law No 91 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — establishes the programme for the extraordinary regularisation of precarious links. Let us begin by voting on a proposal to amend Article 2 ( 2 ). the, presented by the PCP. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected and votes against the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] We now vote on the proposal by the CFP to add a new paragraph 3 and a new paragraph 4 to Article 2. that of the final text. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS, PSD and CDS-PP were rejected and votes against the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Article 2. that of the final text. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We now vote on the proposal by the CFP amending Article 3 ( 2 ). o. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected by votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal submitted by the CFP for the addition of paragraphs 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 to Article 3. o. As requested by the Bureau, we shall begin by voting separately on paragraphs 4 and 8 of the proposal. [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected and votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We now vote on the part of the proposal in which I add paragraphs 5, 6 and 7 to Article 3. o. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD, BE and the CDS-PP.]] We shall then vote on a proposal submitted by BE to add Article 3 ( 6 ). that of the final text. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Article 3. the final text, submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security, on the proposal for a law No 91 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall now vote on a proposal by BE to add paragraph 5 to Article 3. -A of the final text. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on Article 3. -A of the final text. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The vote is followed by a proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 5. o -A. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We are now voting on a proposal submitted by BE to add Article 6 ( 3 ). that of the final text. [[When put to the vote, it was rejected, with votes against the PS, PS and CDS-PP and with votes in favour of BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] We shall vote for Article 6. that of the final text. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on a proposal by BE amending Article 13 ( 1 ). that of the final text. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] The vote was followed by a proposal by the CFP amending Article 13 ( 1 ). that of the final text. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall then vote on a proposal submitted by the CFP to add Article 13 ( 2 ). that of the final text. [[Put to the vote was rejected, with votes against the PS, votes in favour of BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and abstentions from the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We now vote on Article 13. that of the final text. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall now proceed to the overall final vote of the final text submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Security on Bill No 91 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — establishes the programme for the extraordinary regularisation of precarious links. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] [[Congratulations from BE, PCP and PS Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u400	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u401	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u402	Mr President, in order to inform the Bureau that the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a declaration of vote in writing.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u403	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. We now move on to the final overall vote of the final text, presented by the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization, on draft law No 597 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Done at 44. the amendment to Decree-Law No 298 / 92 of 31 December establishing the General Scheme of Credit Institutions and Financial Societies ( PSD ). [[When put to the vote, it was adopted with votes in favour of PS, PS and CDS-PP and with abstentions from BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP.]] The vote is followed by the vote on an application by the PSD for a vote by the plenary in the speciality of the proposal for an amendment submitted by the PS to Articles 13. o, 14. o and 15. the single text to replace the projects of lein.os 570 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Establish a set of urgent measures to support the victims of large pedrogon forest fires and to strengthen fire prevention and combat ( PCP ), 572 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Determines the assumption by the State of responsibility to compensate the heirs of the fatal victims and the serious injuries following the fire of Pedrogão Grande, Castanheira de Pêra, Ansião, Alvaiázere, Figueiró dos Vinhos, Arganil, Gois, Penela, Pampilhosa da Serra, Oleiros and Sertã, between 17 and 24 June 2017, and creates the procedure for determining and paying such compensation ( PSD ) and 573/ XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Establishs the Committee for the Recovery of Victims of Forest Fires from 17 to 24 June 2017 and regulates the payment of compensation to victims of these fires as well as to their heirs ( CDS-PP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Two minutes of intervention are provided for each parliamentary group. First of all, Mr Nuno Serra has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u404	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First, I wanted to say that it was regrettable that the position of the left-wing majority in the vote on Wednesday of a diploma for the reparation of damages to victims of an unprecedented tragedy, which had as its central and central point compensation to those victims without a judicial decision, in order to speed up the entire process of reparation of damage to those who have lost everything and who need it most. on Wednesday we could still « put the head in the sand », the left could try to bleach the failures of the state, but today, after the report of the independent technical commission, we realized that there was indeed a failure of the state, failure in prevention and failure in combat. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on Wednesday you also failed to support those who needed it most. And it was a failure across the line on the left. Mrs. Members, they cannot have two weights and two measures. On the one hand, they allow compensation to the injured BES ( Banco Espírito Santo ) without a judicial decision. [[Well remembered!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u405	Then the state and the left-wing majority thought they could compensate. On the other hand, in relation to those who were left without anything, victims of an unprecedented tragedy, of fires as never had happened, they decided that they should not be entitled to such compensation before a judicial decision. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, what state is this after all? What left-handed majority is this? Why this discrimination between people? After all, what is the motto of this separation? Is it for reasons of political popularity? Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, it is in your hands to change what happened on Wednesday. It is in the hands of this left-wing majority to allow those most in need to be compensated. Mrs. Members, support for victims, support for those who need the most in Portugal cannot be defined by focus groups or popular surveys. It must even be a function of the State which must be kept in its entirety in any situation. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u406	Mr João Oliveira has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u407	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We do not follow in any way what the PSD has just said and even judge that the PSD, instead of seeking to bring falsehoods to the discussion of this matter, should be recording what is really to be recorded. For the first time, the Assembly of the Republic will approve a law of support for victims of a disaster, a real tragedy that has struck a large number of populations, ensuring a package of support and protection for victims of those fires that do not exist under any other law, under any circumstances, and which, on the initiative of the CFP, came to the discussion at the Assembly of the Republic, in a legislative process which will conclude with the approval of a law which involves almost all of the proposals that the CFP had put forward. We note this because, being unpublished, it is to value and register. There is a set of support, which today will be approved in law, housing, housing recovery, the allocation of social support, the protection and security of populations, the agileization of mechanisms for the replacement of the productive potential of the populations affected by fires. It is also proposed to exempt moderate rates, free drug dispensation, free transportation of patients, the creation of sheltered reception parks to ensure the recovery from what may still be the use of the economic potential of burning wood and, of course, there is a compensation mechanism which will continue to be provided for in the law. Mr Nuno Serra and Mr. PSD members, they are not right when they advance the set of accusations they make, because first, it is false that the victims are left with nothing. A compensation mechanism is provided to the extent that this responsibility of the State is identified. [[PSD protests.]] It is false that there is no place for compensation. Such compensation is provided for in the law as compensation to be compulsory. Mr Nuno Serra, it is even more false — a record that you, today, have not repeated yesterday's argument...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u408	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u409	I will finish, Mr. President. I note that the honourable Member has no longer repeated the argument that was used yesterday: with the law that will be passed, it is not possible to compensate the victims within six months. [[Protests by PSD MP Nuno Serra.]] It's possible! It is possible to compensate them in six months and in less time and we will be here to accomplish that.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u410	You really have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u411	Finally, Mr President, saying that we regret that the PSD, rather than registering the positive fact of the adoption of an initiative, which for the first time gives a fundamental answer to the problems of the victims and to the recovery of the situation that has affected them, ends up using these kinds of falsehoods to seek to reduce an initiative which, we believe, must be approved unanimously today. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u412	Mr. Patrícia Fonseca now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u413	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in particular Mr João Oliveira, for emergency situations, we believe that there must be exceptional solutions and that is what was intended with this text which basically represents the joint initiatives of the CFP, the CSD, and the PSD. What was intended with the establishment of a victim assessment committee was to ensure that they were given rapid support. Why? Because the victims need, because we must not prolong their suffering by perpetuating all this process over time and because it is more than just, because the State has failed and has failed a lot. And, if there were any doubts about this failure of the State, since yesterday there has been no such failure. The report by the Independent Technical Commission, which we are still discussing today, is very clear from this. Members of the PS, the PCP and the Left Block the rounds they have taken. Therefore, the State has to compensate the victims with speed, without obviously prejudice to the clearance of the responsibilities that we consider to be obvious from who they are. What we witnessed, in this case, was a complete distortion of what had been the initial proposal, because, basically, we saw the CFP handing, kicking, giving everything to the government in the vote you did on Wednesday,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u414	That's not true, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u415	... throwing the payment to the victims for the evaluation, to the bar of the courts. Unfortunately, dragging a process of compensation or resolving these cases for months and years means, as we know, an extension of psychological suffering to victims.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u416	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u417	It's a case to say, sirs. Members of the PCP : both noise from the postponement that took place at the end of the last Legislative Session on this project to then allow the process of payment of compensation to victims to be dragged through the bar of the courts. It is indeed sad that this has happened on the part of the CFP, which has since begun this process. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u418	That's not true, Mrs. Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u419	Mrs. Júlia Rodrigues has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u420	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The policy must obey basic values and principles in the construction of a fair and solidarity equal society. The political debate around the disaster from 17 to 24 June this year has proved to be a focus of political use and not as it should be: serious and strict attention to the victims of forest fires. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u421	We have no doubt that we should support the victims and their families.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u422	Crocodile tears!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u423	The Government has always been present in this support: it has spoken to and continues to speak with autarchs; it has visited and is present in the villages; it has worked with the European Union to make EUR 45 million available to deal with the tragedy; it has created a fund for support to the municipalities reached; and it has begun and continues to rebuild housing, among many other measures. It adopted the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 101 -A / 2017, which approved the adoption of extraordinary measures to deal with the damage caused by the fires. It published Decree-Law No 87 / 2017, which establishes exceptional public procurement measures to run the affected areas, and Ordinance No 254 / 2017, which defines the conditions for the allocation of immediate support to populations. But one situation is to support the victims, another is, as the PSD does, to attempt to use Pedrogan victims as their human shields and an alibi for their lack of political thought. [[All right!]] [[Protests by PSD MP Nuno Serra.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u424	The PSD has taken a very clear option that well defines its way of doing politics today: to seek, in a national tragedy, an encouragement to try again. [[Protests by PSD MP Nuno Serra.]] Therefore, the PSD proposed compensation, regardless of whether the responsibility of the State is assessed. The President of the Republic, who referred his reservations to a compensation solution, was of no value, without any concrete clearance of the State's responsibilities. They were of no use because the PSD continued to insist on solutions that instrumentalize the state and the victims.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u425	I ask you to finish, Mrs. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u426	I conclude by saying that we have endeavoured to converge by presenting valid and relevant proposals to the Commission, and now we are challenging the PSD and the CDS to join in the right solutions. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u427	Mr Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u428	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Telegraphically, I believe that the main accusation that the right is presented in this debate is the impossibility of quick and prompt awarding compensation for damages whose responsibility is the State, or their action, or their inaction. And I believe that anyone who reads what is going to be approved today clearly has the idea that this accusation is false, because this possibility exists, is a right that the law ascribes and, therefore, the right accusation falls with the approval of this law. [[The PSD MP Nuno Serra's laughs.]] What becomes necessary to assess forward, and this is the big point that is put up to the seriousness of the debate, is the definition of evaluation and responsibilities. As far as this is concerned, I believe that all of us must at least declare that the report by the Independent Technical Commission delivered to this Parliament yesterday will help to speed up the process of defining the responsibilities of the State.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u429	We'll be here six months from now!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u430	That is why we will be here to monitor the government's action in the application of this law, ensuring that there will be no calvary in courts for those who want to see their rights repaired and have the due legal provision of repair, but also ensuring that we will not enter what PSD and CDS seem to want to enter, which is a political game of taking advantage of the situation, because this is absolutely regrettable. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-13.u431	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, after the debate on the speciality, we shall proceed to the first vote on the proposal submitted by the PS, amending Article 13. o. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote on Article 13. that of the final text. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal by the PS amending Article 14. o. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Let us now vote on Article 14. that of the final text. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall proceed to the vote on the proposal by the Socialist Party amending Article 15. o. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We shall vote for Article 15. that of the final text. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the PCP, the Greens and the NAP and the votes against the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] Finally, we shall proceed to the overall final vote of the final text, submitted by the Committee on Agriculture and the Sea, on the drafts of lein.o 570 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Establish a set of urgent measures to support the victims of large pedrogon forest fires and to strengthen fire prevention and combat ( PCP ), 572 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Determines the assumption by the State of responsibility to compensate the heirs of the fatal victims and the serious injuries following the fire of Pedrógão Grande, Castanheira de Pera, Ansião, Alvaiázere, Figueiró dos Vinhos, Arganil, Gois, Penela, Pampilhosa da Serra, Oleiros and Sertan, between 17 and 24 June 2017, and creates the procedure for determining and paying such compensation ( PSD ) and 573/ XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Establishs the Committee for the Recovery of Victims of Forest Fires from 17 to 24 June 2017 and regulates the payment of compensation to victims of these fires as well as to their heirs ( CDS-PP ). [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]] We have thus come to the end of the votes and our work today. The plenary will meet again on the next 18th day, at 3 p.m., with the following agenda : 15-year debate with the Prime Minister, under Article 224 ( 2 ( b ). the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly of the Republic, and then with the participation of the Prime Minister ; preparatory debate of the European Council under Article 4(1) ( a ). the Law of Monitoring, Evaluation and Pronunciation by the Assembly of the Republic in the framework of the European Union Construction Process, and the debate on the speech of the President of the European Commission on the state of the Union ( held in the European Parliament on 13 September 2017 ), in accordance with Article 4 ( 1 ( c ). that of that law. I thank everyone for their collaboration in the conduct of these work and wish everyone and all a good weekend. The session is closed. [[It was 14 hours and 30 minutes.]]
