ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Members of the Staff and Members of the Commission. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 10 hours and 7 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. Mrs. Members, I recall the holding of elections during the plenary session of members of the Higher Council for Internal Security, the Regulatory Council of the ERC ( Regulatory Entity for Social Communication ), the Board for the Monitoring of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic, the National Data Protection Commission, the Board for the Control of the DNA Profile Database, the National Education Council and the Ombudsman. These elections take place in Sala D. Maria and will end 15 minutes after the end of the plenary session. We will move on to the second item of the agenda with the discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 552 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Consecrates the duty of professional disconnection and reinforces the supervision of working hours by making the tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( BE ), 640 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009, conferring the right of the worker to professional disconnection ( PAN ), 643/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Qualifies as a very serious counter-ordination the violation of the rest period ( tenth fifth amendment of the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ) ( The Greens ), 644 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The third amendment to the Labour Code strengthens the worker's right to rest ( PS ), together with draft resolutions 1085 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to ensure effective compliance with working hours and the reconciliation of work with family life ( CFP ) and 1086 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government initiate a debate at the social level with a view to including the right to disconnect either in the Labour Code or in the collective labour regulation instruments ( CDS-PP ). To present the bill of the Left Block, Mr. José Soeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u2	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The schedule we make today has to do with the most precious good we have — time — and responds to a serious problem — the increasing number of workers who see their time informally prolonged, their personal time invaded by professional demands and their free time colonized by a permanent link via email or telephone. The exhaustion and burnout, the disrespect for the rest and for the worker's personal time are worrying phenomena—in fact, aggravated by new technologies. New technologies that have been presented as a source of autonomy, but that have become for many a kind of electronic collar. Does the law already provide for workers' right to quit work? Of course I do. Absolutely and unequivocally, yes! But this right which the law provides is hampered by permanent contacts and requests. I have no obligation to answer a phone call or to reply to an email outside my working time, I don't, but if my boss calls me, I feel pressured. Therefore, in addition to the right to disconnect, which the law provides, we want to determine the duty of professional disconnection by companies and punish companies that contact workers outside their time, invading their rest time. We also want to strengthen the monitoring of the ACT ( Working Conditions Authority ). Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the challenge we are facing is not to regulate these connected practices, legitimizing what is not legal today, even if it limits them. Don't! Nor is it to give the company the unilateral power to make these rules. The challenge we face is to give a clear signal that there is no technological fatalism that forces us to walk back in the name of new technologies and that these practices are unacceptable. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u3	To present the draft law of the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in recent years, with the growing development of new technologies, coupled with excessive work and the degradation of working conditions, a culture of always being linked is being created. This disability of professional disconnection has very serious consequences for people's physical and mental health. Stress and labor exhaustion can cause depressive symptoms, anxiety and sleep disorders, as well as hypertension, cardiovascular disease and diabetes. In addition, more and more studies confirm that working continuously is not synonymous with excellence and productivity, and can lead to burnout, which, according to data from the Portuguese Association of Occupational Health Psychology ( APPSO ), affected about 14% of active people in Portugal, in 2016. thus, with great damage to the worker, the disruption of his rest periods by the employer still has as a consequence that, to the work performed in person, if another that is not accounted for or paid. For the NAP, the current legal forecast of the existence of a rest period assigned to the worker is insufficient, so, in view of strengthening the constitutional right to rest and to work in dignified conditions, in order to enable personal performance and to allow the reconciliation of professional activity with family life, we propose the change of the Labour Code in order to expressly foresee the worker's right to professional disconnection, and it cannot be disturbed by the employer outside the working hours, except in situations of greater force, which can be defined by a collective instrument of regulation of work, being expressly denied to the employer the possibility of obstructing, hindering or penalizing the exercise by the worker of the right of professional disconnection. In short, in this society, more and more abundant in goods and services, what is scarce is what we need most: time to live. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u5	To present the Green Bill, Mr. José Luís Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u6	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The world of work continues to face realities that reflect a tendency to retreat, or attempts to retreat, with regard to the achievements promoted by the struggle of generations and generations of working men and women. Deregulation, flexibility or excesses are only examples of these offensives that tend to be increasingly present in the world of work. The pressure exerted by some employers to continue to reduce workers' rights, such as changes to working hours and weekly rest, is now truly worrying. On the other hand, the political options based on work without rights, which, moreover, clearly marked the policy of the previous Government, represent, and continue to represent, decisive elements for the generalization of labour precariousness, for the degradation of working conditions and for the weakening of labour rights. Labour precariousness is the direct effect of labour relations outside the law, of obstacles to the rights of workers, the violation of fundamental rights, the degradation of working conditions and the increase in levels of exploitation. The current reality is so serious that the work led to the limit of exhaustion in Portugal is already estimated at about 47 %, according to the Portuguese Association of Occupational Health Psychology, in an investigation conducted in 2016 to almost 4000 workers. The same Association, which has conducted several surveys since 2008 covering a total of 40 000 workers, notes a gradual increase in exhaustion situations associated with the weight of the hourly load, with consequences for health, but also for the performance of the work itself. The figures are worrying and, according to the National Institute of Statistics ( INE ), in our country in 2016, almost 40 % of the total population employed had a weekly time between 36 and 40 hours, including extraordinary hours, but 20 % works between 41 or more hours per week. These acceleration rhythms in which the current society lives are reflected in the labour market and in the worker/employee relationship, losing the boundaries between space and time devoted to each task, from work to family, rest or leisure. It is also important to ensure that workers' rights are effectively safeguarded in a digital and technological society. in this context, it is important to ensure, inter alia, that the rest period of workers is not disrupted with constant labour affairs, also through new forms of communication, in particular digital ones. To this end, the Greens Parliamentary Group presents a legislative initiative to qualify as a very serious counter-ordination the employer's breach of the worker's rest period, in particular through the use of information and communication technologies. It is true that the Greens, in the first assessment, have assessed the possibility of dedicating the period of professional shutdown. However, by deepening the assessment of the consequences of such a rule, it was understandable to the Greens that what seemed to us to be a strengthening of rights was ultimately, or could, in the end, enhance a weakening of the right to rest period already enshrined. The Greens then sought to build their proposal in order to guarantee or achieve the objective which has always motivated us: to strengthen the guarantee of the right to rest. in this sense, we qualify as a very serious counter-ordination the violation by the employer of the rest period, including through the use of information and communication technologies, now waiting for the same proposal to merit the consent of all banks of this House. [[Congratulations on the BE and the PCP.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u7	To present the PS bill, Mrs. Wanda Guimarães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Different initiatives, but all pointing to a path, which is the right to turn off. We are available, as it is obvious, in order to achieve a healthy consensus between the various formulations in order to obtain the best solution, and I would say that not always the most radical solutions are those that best defend workers. in this sense, there are some measures that are proposed with which we do not agree, for example — the announcements already do — the link between the right to shut down and the harassment, until the harassment is defined in an extremely well-developed and recent legislation and, therefore, it is typified, or the absolute impossibility of contacting a worker, regardless of the function it performs, in situations of exceptionality or emergency. But this does not prevent the present situation from becoming unsustainable with a systematic invasion of the family space. Now, the right to disconnect is the right of workers to privacy, rest and establishment of a red line which separates what is the private and private sphere from what is the professional sphere. Therefore, without the right to disconnect, there is no decent work; without the right to disconnect, there is no family reconciliation; and, more serious than anything, without the right to disconnect, we will witness the progressive robotization of human beings. No will, no power of choice, always available. On the other hand, the promiscuity between family life and professional life is not only to have serious reflections on the physical and mental health of workers, but also to bring distortions in these two fundamental areas for the balance of any human being. If it is true—and this is an important issue—that women have greater control over their space and their time, it is no less true that family relations are severely affected by the systematic overrun of the so-called "red line" and young couples have less and less time to develop a healthy loving and family relationship, with obvious costs. Finally, we all have an obligation in this House to reach a consensus, in the name of the most fundamental rights of the human person, not only of the workers, but stressing that, without the right to disconnect, we are depriving ourselves of what is essential, which is our humanity. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u9	To present the draft resolution of the PCP, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u10	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in our country, the main problem with working hours is their failure to comply with and deregulation. More than any empty problem or the need for clarification of working time limits, the main problem is the failure of employers to comply with these limits. The working hours, their fixation and compliance, respect for rest times, their payment and compensation conditions, the link with family, personal and professional life, continue to be the most serious attacks on the rights of workers who are practised every day at the workplace.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u11	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u12	And this happens, ladies and gentlemen. Members, because there is a strategy on the part of employers supported by successive changes to labour legislation, now promoted by PS, now promoted by PSD and CDS, in order to weaken the rights of workers, impose an increase in working hours, deregulation of working hours, through individual and group hourly banks, adaptability, extension of working hours, among other matters. It is not surprising that in this matter some have now recognized the gravity that was decided by the end of sending schedules of hours and insurance policies of workers to the Working Conditions Authority ( ACT ).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u13	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u14	The former PSD and CDS government in 2012 decided that the matter of working hours and insurance policies should not be of any interest to ACT and therefore employers were not required to send maps to ACT as if this was not of any importance. Today, some have said that this should be referred to for social consultation. You shouldn't, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen! This matter shall be decided on and the replacement of the obligation to forward schedules of hours and insurance policies of workers to the ACT shall be fixed,... [[PCP applause.]] ...because, if not, we are facilitating non-compliance and violation of rights. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing matters which, in many interventions, seem not to be enshrined in the law. However, working hours, rest periods, additional work, exemption from working hours are provided for, defined and defined in national legislation. And in our view it was important to look carefully at the opinion of the CGTP on this matter which was sent to the Committee on Labour and Social Security. The opinion of the CGTP, among various subjects, is that the intention of dedicating the duty of professional disconnection opens the door « to the legalization of illegal practices taken by employers when interfering with the rest periods of workers, underscoring the right to invade their time of self-availability and the sphere of their private life ». Mrs. Members, the truth is that the principle of the right to rest is unequivocally enshrined in national legislation, not requiring any clarification, since, apart from the contract of employment, the worker is totally free of any burden or obligation to work. The employer may not interfere beyond what is foreseen in the working hours.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u15	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u16	Therefore, the proposals we bring here are prudent in this matter, because we can think that we are doing well when what we are doing is degrading working conditions and weakening workers' rights. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u17	To present the draft resolution of the CDS-PP, Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Today we are dealing with a very important issue today, which is very important for workers and for the regulation of working life. Regardless of their designation — right to disconnect or disconnect — what is at stake here is helping to solve a dilemma with which an increasing number of workers are confronted. With the new technologies, we all know that the office/work is away from a click. If, on the one hand, we all undoubtedly recognize the right to rest, it is no less certain that there is no worker who likes his role that does not feel impelled by the duty of zeal and diligence, which, in fact, is also enshrined in the law. And this question lies between the right and the need for rest, to enjoy personal and family time, and the duty of zeal, sometimes, the taste of many workers, in front of the company and, often, customers, businesses, opportunities, every time they receive on their phone, when they are at home, when they are resting, when they are at the cinema, when they are at the restaurant, when they are on the beach, a message from a workmate, a supplier or a customer. This reality, which begins by being a very often stimulating opportunity, has been gaining threatening proportions for the balance between professional, personal and family life. That is why the CDS was the first to bring the debate here, less than four months ago. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a difference between being a pioneer and being hasty. The CDS was a pioneer, it was a pioneer to realize that we are faced with a great reality, it was a pioneer to bring the importance of the consecration of this matter, but, being a pioneer, it was not hasty, because it realized that the importance of the matter refers to the need for dialogue, weighting, and broad involvement of all social partners. However, the other parties that bring these diplomas here today have not been pioneers but have been rushed, as in the course of the debate here. Everyone wants to be quick to take an initiative and, at the end of the day, they do not understand what is really important. Mrs. Wanda Guimarães, consensus? Oh, my God! To call for consensus when only four months ago the Socialist Party was confronted with this matter and the lead was limited, without any appeal to debate? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u19	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u20	Is it consensus to go to the PS or is it the PS that has to hear the signs that come to you from everyone, and in this case the CDS, which was the first to bring the matter to debate? Oh, my God! [[CDS-PP applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: Let us be pioneers, let us work on this matter, which is of the greatest importance, but let us not be hasty. This is the sense of responsibility. The CDS is ahead, the CDS is dealing with these issues, the CDS brings them to debate and, yes, dialogue, but extensive and serious dialogue and not precipitation. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u21	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Clara Marques Mendes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This is a very important debate, it is a debate in which we talk about the right to disconnect work, better known as the « right to disconnect ». And from now on, the initiatives under consideration here have the merit of bringing the debate to this important issue, which relates to the right to rest for the worker. I begin by saying that this right to rest by the worker is a fundamental right of the worker, it is a constitutional right, which cannot, under any circumstances, be violated and therefore any violation that occurs must be punished and seriously. That's what the Constitution says. That's what the Labour Code says. This question does not generally arise, saying that there is a right to turn off when the worker is at his rest. Clearly, the worker has the right to turn it off! The question arises because, in today's society, there has been an evolution, a new organization of working times, a new organization of work itself, in which there is, for example, telework, flexible work, the introduction of new technologies. And what does this lead to? It leads to an indefinition of the barriers between rest time and working time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u23	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u24	And it's here, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, that comes into the matter of the right to disconnect. It is with this indefinition between what is rest time and what is working time that we should be concerned - under the penalty of questioning the right to rest of the worker, which, as I said, is a constitutional right to ensure the balance, the well-being of the worker, both physical and emotional, and above all dignity at work. Therefore, I do not seem to see this concern reflected in the initiatives here in appreciation, although I recognize the goodness of them. In fact, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, in particular, the Socialist Party's initiative is very dangerous for workers, and I will explain why. It is that the Socialist Party's initiative says that the worker has the right to turn off, as if the worker had no right to turn off. I stress again that the worker has the right to rest and therefore in the rest time he has the right to turn off and end point.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u25	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u26	But I repeat, the Socialist Party says that the worker, in his rest period, has the right to turn off, except for imperative demands of the operation of the company. Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a danger! This is to give total power, completely arbitrary, so that the employer decides that, in the rest period, he can contact the worker by telephone, by e-mail and thus violate his right to rest. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a danger! Therefore, we must be careful, this matter must be debated and, as all have said here, it is necessary to consider, above all, that these matters should be agreed between employers and workers. We are convinced that this is a matter in which better workers and employers will be able to guard against the need to define barriers between what is working time and what is rest time. Thus, we will continue to ensure, in the face of this new evolution of society, that we too follow this evolution and are always concerned about the dignity of the worker and the dignity of work. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u27	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau does not record inscriptions, but I imagine that, while there are still time available from all the benches...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u28	Mr President, if I may, the Left Block will include Mr José Moura Soeiro, but, as we have been the authors of the agenda, we will be the last to speak on this point.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u29	You're absolutely right, Mr. Deputies. Mrs. Wanda Guimarães has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u30	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Member of the CDS for giving us the following clarification: the Socialist Party voted against the resolution of the CDS, because I am sorry - for being frank - was a complete nonsense, in which it related, in particular, the figure of the right to disconnect from telework, when telework, as the term itself recommends, is a work done at home and the right to disconnect is essentially for the workers who are in the company and have the right to their privacy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u31	Don't! No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u32	The second question concerns the expression « except the requirements of the company ». I love the radicalisms of the PSD! ... Really, if there is a fire in the factory, no one can be warned, because the tables cannot be warned at home, or other situations which, obviously, in the name of good and regular operation of companies, require that there be exceptional situations, in fact, contained in other points that Mrs Clara Marques Mendes omitiu and which have to do with collective bargaining, with regulations, within which it is mandatory to list the various situations that are considered exceptional or emergency. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u33	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Rita Rato.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u34	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The increasingly intensive use of information and communication technologies does not exempt compliance from the law, on the contrary! The increasingly intensive use of these technologies would also have required more means by the Act to monitor compliance with working hours. So the matter we are discussing today is serious, it is perverse and it can open doors in our understanding to legitimize and legalize what today, in the light of the law, is already illegal. In fact, we must be aware of what we are deciding. from the PCP, we do not follow this objective. We cannot follow an objective which, although well-intentioned in some cases, will effectively translate into a weakening of workers' rights. Therefore, on our part, we call for caution and serenity in this matter, because what we are discussing here is the possibility of extending the working time in many areas and legitimizing and legalizing what is already illegal today.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u35	That's right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u36	Even to conclude, Madam President, I just wanted to say the following: the CDS was not hasty when it ended with the mandatory sending of time maps to ACT. It was no precipitation, it was a political option and at the time they knew what they were doing. And so they were not pioneers either, because other PSD governments had already tried to destroy collective bargaining.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u37	Would you like to conclude, Mrs. Deputy,
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u38	But the truth is that in 2012 when they were guaranteeing the support and privileges to the patronage, they were not hasty, did so by political choice and knew who they were serving. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u39	Mr Filipe Anacoreta Correia has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u40	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: We must not fail to hear the Communist Party say that this has to be the subject of great thought, of great caution. This is indeed extraordinary, for it soon gives the signal that it is open to any dialogue extended to Portuguese society. Indeed, the PCP speaking in non-precipitation is extraordinary. Mrs. Wanda Guimarães, I think you're wrong.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u41	Think badly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u42	And I think it's serious that she's wrong in a matter of this kind. Of course, and repeating here an expression by Mrs Rita Rato, we do not understand that the world is perverse. What we are dealing with today is a sign of the times, of our world. We believe that the new technologies and the reality underlying them, which has implications for the world of work, are not perverse. That's right, that's right! [[Protests from BE Mariana Mortagua.]] We need to be aware of this matter, such as telework. In fact, if I may, Mrs. Wanda Guimarães, you are wrong. Of course, this matter also has to do with telework. It has to do with telework, it has to do with the robotization of the economy and labour benefits, and it is precisely because this is a new, complex matter...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u43	Mr. Deputies, you've outlived your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u44	I will finish, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u45	Are you going to finish immediately, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u46	I conclude, Madam President, by saying that these matters must be considered and therefore, in a timely manner, the CDS, being a pioneer, referred to social dialogue in social dialogue, and it is regrettable that they did not understand it. [[CDS-PP applause.]] [[Protests by PS MP Wanda Guimarães.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u47	Mr José Soeiro has the floor for an intervention to conclude the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I raise a few questions. First question: in the light of the law, does the worker have to be connected and available, has to answer e-mails and answer phones outside his working time? Don't! He doesn't. The right to rest already exists in the law, there is no need to change the law at this point because it already guarantees it. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u49	The question to ask, then, is: why is this right, in many circumstances, so difficult to exercise? The answer we give is the following: because the law guarantees this right to the worker but the employer, the employer, the boss, continues to be able to contact the worker and puts him in the worker, by making use of his right, the burden of answering the phone or not. What we say is that the law must take a step forward and not only guarantee the right to shut down but impose on companies the duty not to contact workers outside their working hours. That's why the bosses' opinions are so concerned with the Left Block initiative,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u50	It's important to us too!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u51	... because the bosses don't want to have this limitation and that's why it takes courage to do it. Second question: how do you do it? Strengthening the protection of workers. The employer cannot be reserved for the possibility of resolving or regulating this issue by unilateral decision. Allowing this to be done, for example, by the company's internal regulation, which is an expression of entrepreneurship, would be a knife pointed at the workers' chest. [[All right!]] [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Filipe Anacoreta Correia.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u52	Third question: what are the consequences of this legal determination proposed by the Left Block? Co-ordinations, as the Greens Ecologist Party says? All right, we agree. Or, as the PCP refers to, to provide that this may be an indication of harassment? It makes all the sense. It makes every sense, in fact, in harmony with the legislation we have done in this House on harassment. Fourth question, which was raised by the Socialist Party: can there be no exceptions, extreme situations, exceptional, unacceptable to justify contact, as in the case of the company being burning or if there is a collapse of the computer system? Of course! But the principle must be that the connection cannot be established. And it is because of this principle that this matter can be thought and regulated and not based on the other principle, which is to say that it is the connection that must be regulated. This would reverse the debate. Fifthly, the question raised by the CFP : is there a serious problem in Portugal of non-compliance with workers' rights due to lack of supervision? Of course I do. That is why the Left Block proposes strengthening supervision and proposes that it be made mandatory again to send schedules to the Working Conditions Authority, which must have been removed by the PSD and CDS when they reviewed the labour law. Finally, is this the only action to be taken on this subject? Of course not. We know how the PSD and the CDS have halved the value of additional work, how they have made the hours more flexible, through the hour bank, how they have decreased, weakened, collective bargaining. And it is on each of these matters, and restating the rights of workers, that the CDS and PSD weakened in 2012, which needs to intervene. Doing this without addressing these other aspects would, of course, be an act of hypocrisy. That is why the Block on the Left, which presents today this project and which has scheduled this debate, has also had the set of initiatives that are known about all these matters. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u53	That concludes this point on our agenda. We proceed with the third item on the agenda, the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.os 571 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Alter to Law No 151 / 2015 of 11 September ( Budget Framework Act ) ( CDS-PP ) and 638 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Ensures the public disclosure of the use of captives in the budgets of entities which integrate the direct and indirect administration of the State ( first amendment to Law No 151 / 2015 of 11 September - Budget Framework Act ) ( CFP ). You have the floor for an intervention to present the legislative initiative of the CDS-PP, Mr João Almeida.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u54	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The issue of captivating, being a budgetary management instrument, has never been discussed as much as this year and last year, in particular with regard to the implementation of the 2016 budget. This results in an option that the Government has taken to follow a path that has never been followed in relation to this budgetary management instrument. Basically, what happened from different in 2016 was that the Socialist Party, in the Government, captured more and decapitated less, i.e., increased the discretionary margin of the government in relation to the expenditure that had been approved by this Parliament and, with this discretionary margin, made the management of the Budget more opaque. In short, what has been approved in this Parliament was more different than ever from what has just happened in reality and it is impossible to dissociate this reality from what we saw, on time, in collapsing public services, in failing public services and public service missions that have ceased to be fulfilled. They will say those who defend the government : « it has nothing to do with each other». For then we will be transparent and we will see if you have or if you do not, we will allow Parliament to monitor the management of these seizures to know whether there is indeed a link between what has been approved by Parliament and that it has not been authorized by the Ministry of Finance to spend and what is lacking in the provision of services by the State. The draft law submitted by the CDS is very clear and aims, in the Budget Framework Act, which is the enhanced value law that governs the way in which budgets are managed, to put an obligation on the statistical bulletin that the Directorate-General for Budget discloses each month with the budget implementation if a chapter with the appropriations is included. Knowing what is initially captured, month by month, we will know what has been unactivated in each ministry, in each program, in every service, with all the details, which will allow us to know how this management is done. What happened in 2016 was that EUR 1000 million — I repeat, EUR 1000 million — of expenditure approved by this Parliament was held up until December 31st and was not spent, i.e. what the CFP and the Left Block were saying they had achieved in the Budget, the Minister of Finance put in the drawer. This has to end. A budget debate « to see the Minister of Finance deceive », with the complicity of the CFP and the Left Block, is something that is unacceptable. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Duarte Pacheco.]] Even more in the situation in which this government governs, i.e., it is a minority government with majority parliamentary support, in which the parties supporting it in Parliament are not in the government and are hiding in this concealment of the captivitys to maintain the political discourse.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u55	Have you ever realized that there are more bills?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u56	Ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are open to discussion on the implementation of this type of instrument. We have already said that what is in the State Budget ( OE ) has absolutely nothing to do with what CDS and PCP propose and, therefore, the discussion will always have to be a discussion on the Budget Framework Act, on a permanent obligation and on effective transparency and not an article of Budget to once again « deceive Portuguese ». [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Duarte Pacheco.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u57	You have the floor for an intervention to present the legislative initiative of the CFP, Mr Paulo Sá.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP today brings up a proposal for a change to the budgetary framework law, in order to ensure that the Assembly of the Republic has political control instruments relating to the use of captives in budgetary management. It understands the CFP that budgetary management, including captivating, cannot serve to satisfy the European Union and its brokerage of taxes, conditioning and shares to our sovereignty. on the contrary, budgetary management should aim to respond to the problems of workers and the people, the improvement of public services, the social functions of the state, in particular their social functions in health, education, culture and social protection. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The defeat of PSD and CDS in the October 2015 legislative elections,... [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] ... meant defeat of the idea that there is no alternative to cuts in rights and income. Measures for the replacement of rights and income which have since been implemented and their positive impact on economic growth and job creation confirm the fairness of the CFP position, which has always stated that the country's path of progress and development must be that of valuing work and workers. We know that the action of the former PSD / CDS government, the liquidation of workers' rights, the confiscation of their incomes... [[PSD protests.]] ...and attacks on public services and social functions of the State have had very serious consequences and effects, which will last over time. A time that will be as long as later the rupture takes place with the guidelines and options that have dictated this policy of exploitation and impoverishment. The CFP values the progress made over the past two years and those that are expected in the State Budget for 2018, but does not ignore that in many situations it has not gone further because the Government has not broken with the options of right-wing policy, in particular with regard to the country's structural problems, public debt, the submission to the euro and the private control of the national bank. These government options leave the country subject to weaknesses and vulnerabilities in the face of adverse factors and have as a result the bulk of problems without response or with partial response. It is evidence that the accelerated reduction of the budget deficit is conditional on the provision to the State bodies of the human, material and financial resources appropriate to their normal functioning and the improvement of the services provided to the populations. It is evidence that public services face difficulties because of the shortage of means made available to them. in health, education, social security, public transport, culture or justice, there are problems that could be overcome, but are barred from the government's options regarding the accelerated reduction of budgetary deficit. The idea of the lowest deficit in our democracy has as reverse less public investment, a slower pace in the process of replacing less qualified public rights and incomes and services to respond to people's problems. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with the approval of the proposal from the CFP to the Assembly of the Republic, will have more information on the implementation of the budget, including the captives, which the CFP will use to ensure that the State budget gives a better response to the problems of workers, the people and the country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u59	Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u60	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In budgetary matters, this government is characterized by a policy of masking, throwing sand at people's eyes. It is very easy to enter a word in the Budget, to collect unanimous support from unions, institutions, political parties in this House, commentators and then execute what it gives you in your head, that is, much less than what you entered in the budget office,... [[PCP protests.]] ... and we will only be aware of this six months after the end of the budget implementation. This was very clear in 2016. In order to have majority parliamentary support, the sympathetic funds which the parties that support the government want to see, then spend much less, i.e. less EUR 1 billion. Some parties say that "this has always been the way you did in the past when you were in government." But there we have to be clear and serious about two matters. First of all, it was stated that the policy of austerity and cuts had ended and, therefore, the previous policy of captivity and cuts would never be repeated in these good times that we now live. The mask has fallen! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u61	Secondly, it has been said that the previous captivations, which have passed the EUR 500 million in times of crisis, were unbearable for the quality of services. Now they're twice as high as 1000 million euros! If the others were unbearable, what are these, gentlemen? Ladies and gentlemen? Oh, my God! In fact, it is this reality that makes the PCP itself, in the preamble to its draft resolution, say that this undermines the quality of public services—true! — or that the Left Block says that the Minister of Finance was not mandated to make this volume of captivating, and these facts make this initiative fundamental. [[Protests by PCP MP Bruno Dias.]] Transparency and truth must be restored in the budgetary debate. We therefore welcome the CDS initiative and hope that anyone who wants transparency and truth will not hide in underground so as not to vote in favour of it. [[Congrats from the PSD and the CDS-PP Member João Pinho de Almeida.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u62	Once again, the Bureau has no registrations. [[Pause.]] Mrs Mariana Mortágua has just signed up for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u63	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Mr João Almeida is right when he says that the Assembly of the Republic has never discussed how now the question of captivity. There are reasons to discuss them now but there is no reason not to have discussed them before. The truth is that the capitulations have always been unclear and the Assembly of the Republic resigned from its responsibility to ask for more information about where the capitulations were happening, even when, for example, in 2014 in a Budget made by PSD and CDS, they went from 755 million to 1123 million. They'll say they're smaller than there are today. Certainly, but it was a very big increase that the Assembly of the Republic resigned from scrutiny when it should have done so. in 2014, in which legal captivating increased to 1123 million, the expenditure effectively spent was reduced to 500 million. In 2016, despite being the record year of captivating, expenditure effectively spent increased 1135 million. That's why, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we have no doubt that the measures we negotiated with the Socialist Party have been felt by people who have had a decrease in their IRS, who have seen a reduction in the VAT of restoration, who have seen an increase in social support. We are sure that these people felt well the measures that were negotiated between the Left Block and the Government. however, we have no lack of criticism or initiative on captivating. The amount legally and effectively captive in 2016 was excessive and not transparent. From the beginning that the Left Block has accompanied this debate and even provoked it. We asked public questions to the government and it was the answers obtained that allowed us to have more information about the amounts that were being captured, in which services and in which ministries. That is why we do not accept any accusations that we are trying to hide behind the government or try to hide any information on this matter or on the implementation of the budget. We always demand transparency from the Government and it was this requirement that this State Budget proposal should come up with an article in which the issue of transparency is placed on the table and in which the Government itself is obliged to disseminate data on seizures. Do we think that's enough? Don't! And we have already committed ourselves, in the context of the special discussion of the State budget, to putting forward proposals not only on the issue of transparency but also on the impact of capitulations. This is why the Left Block does not present a bill at this time, but we will certainly present proposals in the special debate of the Budget to be discussed, not only on the issue of transparency but also on the amount and incidence of captivations. The Left Block does not give up this debate or the fight for budgetary transparency. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u64	For an intervention, Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u65	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to present some essential ideas. The first is the following: a good implementation of the State budget is essential for the credibility and reputation of the country and achieving the targets for the deficit means an increase in the rating of the Republic and the fall in interest. That is to say, fulfilling the objectives means savings and it is of national and non-European interest, fulfilling them. The second idea is that any State budget has flexibility mechanisms in its implementation, which are several: the provisional allocation of the Ministry of Finance, the captivating, the budgetary changes. None of this is new! The idea that the government is presenting one budget and fulfilling another is now taking place in the debate. Don't! The Government shall submit a rigorous budget, which has articles, Article 4. the OE 2018 and OE 2017, which say exactly where the captivations can be made. The aim of the seizures is to limit the excessive growth of the acquisition of goods and services and is therefore false, Mr. João Almeida, that these seizures have called into question the public services, because the State budget presented, approved and executed by the Government in 2016 — and now, in 2017 — specifies exactly where there can be no captivations. And there can't be them in the acquisition of health services. It's written! It's specified! Therefore, this idea that seems a little in the air that there is a State budget and that then the government will execute and do something else, simply and simply, does not correspond to the truth. I wanted to conclude by saying, because it is a fact that the seizures in 2016 were greater than those of previous years—it is a fact and against fact there are no arguments, we assume this perfectly—and precisely because of this, that the government has already entered a rule, which is Article 5 in the 2017 State Budget. the heading « Transparency », which states that the government will reveal quarterly the seizures it will carry out throughout the year. Therefore, we follow in a way the concerns of the projects that were presented, but not according to what they were. For now, I am here saying that the Government and the Socialist Party are interested in transparency and will never question the quality of public services through captives. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u66	I have the floor for a second speech, Mr Duarte Pacheco, since there is still time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u67	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, of course, that rigour in the management of public money must always be present. I believe that this thought crosses all benches and is fundamental to the credibility of the country, of a company or of any institution. That's not what's at stake. What is at stake at the moment is the excessive value that happened in 2016 and that we only learned six months after the end of the budget implementation, which made it not possible for the parties supporting the government to be aware of this, leading us to the need to strengthen the rules of transparency. This is what's at stake here. That's why, sirs. Members, we believe that a budgetary rule should not be entered, which only binds the current financial year, but that a change should be made to the budgetary framework law, so that it does not depend on majority or circumstantial wills of the Ministry of Finance. That is our choice and that is why we subscribe to the proposals that are on the table. I leave one last note, Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira: the quality of public services was questioned and all Portuguese felt it. Families may have had an increase in income available, particularly public servants, is true. But it is well present that the quality of public services has deteriorated, which is clear both in the speeches and interventions of opposition parties but also in the preamble to an initiative of one of the parties that supports the government. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u68	Sir, there is no horse here to support anyone!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u69	Mr Trigo Pereira has the floor again for a second intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u70	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I'll be very quick. The quality of public services, in fact, deteriorated during the period of troika and governance of PSD/CDS because of cuts. And then they were cut, actually. Now, we're not having cuts in the State Budget, it's good that you do your bills! We are having an increase in public spending in all sectors! [[P.S.'s applause.]] We're having income replacement, we're having salary replacement, we're... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] ...we're having career replacement in the Public Administration. We are improving the quality of public services and are committed to it. But we do not want to compromise, Mr. Duarte Pacheco and Mr. João Almeida, the budget deficit and my question is: would you like to have made fewer captivations in 2016 and have had a much higher deficit? This is the question that you have to answer! Is this what you'd like to have? Not us! Therefore, we want to comply, we are improving the quality of public services and public administration and reducing the budget deficit. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u71	You have the floor for an intervention, Mr Paulo Sá.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Contrary to what PSD and CDS try to believe, seizures are not cuts, they are a budgetary management tool that has been used by all governments, including PSD / CDS governments. But capitulations, not being cut, cannot also be used to distort the budget or to meet the European Union's demands and demands. The CFP presents here today a draft law ensuring that the Assembly of the Republic will have detailed information that will enable it to monitor more closely the implementation of the budget, including the captives, and will use this information to ensure that the captives will be used to ensure budgetary rigour and also to ensure that what has been budgeted is what will be implemented. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u73	Mr João Almeida has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u74	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate was clear and it will also be clear the consequences of its withdrawal. There is a legitimate understanding that this government has used and abused captives. There have never been final captives of EUR 1000 million, and that is overwhelming. How do we deal with this? In two ways: in the volume and in the State budget. Is it legitimate, or not, to have such a large volume of initial captivating? The way each party votes for the article of the captives in the State budget will show who thinks that the government abuses captives and who thinks that it does not. And we have the legitimate curiosity to want to see how the Left Block and the PCP will vote on this article from the State Budget. The second part concerns transparency and there is transparency in the budgetary framework law. We are also curious about how all parties will vote on the different initiatives. For us, transparency is: every month, ministry, program to program, service to service. If we understand that we want transparency, we understand what we understand about the rest, this is transparency. Who vote in favour of transparency, who vote against it does not. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Duarte Pacheco.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u75	That concludes this point on our agenda. We will continue with the assessment of Decree-Law No 95 / 2017 of 10 August, which regulates the transfer to the General Board of Appeals, IP of the financial charge with the pension supplements of the workers of Carris [ Parliamentary assessments n 45 / XIII ( 2 ). a ) ( BE) and 46 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) ( PCP ) ]. Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor for an intervention on behalf of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u76	Madam President, excuse me.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u77	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u78	Mr President, it was the CFP that proposed the scheduling of this parliamentary assessment, so it should be Mrs Diana Ferreira starting the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u79	Mr. João Oliveira, the order we have on the agenda is different.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u80	Mr President, it appears different and the order of entry is that, but the one who allocated the debate was the CFP and, therefore, it is Mrs Diana Ferreira who should initiate it.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u81	Mr President, I am not going to discuss this matter and I apologize, but in the agenda of the Bureau there is, first of all, the parliamentary assessment of the responsibility of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u82	It's wrong!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u83	Mrs Diana Ferreira, you have the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u84	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Secretary of State, ladies and gentlemen. Government Members : The PCP Parliamentary Group actually requests this parliamentary assessment of Decree-Law No 95 / 2017, which regulates the transfer to the General Post Office of the financial burden with the pension supplements of Carris workers. This Decree-Law is of course not disconnected from the process of municipalization of Carris and its transfer to the city of Lisbon, a matter on which the CFP had, in fact, the opportunity to pronounce itself expressing its opposition and intervening on it. with regard to the proposal for this diploma concerning the payment of the amendments to the reform of the workers of Carris are defined here as different scenarios. in the case of already retired workers, all the obligations with the reform complement are transferred to the General Pension Fund. in the case of Carris workers who were already on 31 December 2016, the payment of the obligations lodged shall be borne by the CGA, but the obligations to be constituted shall be borne by Caris. For workers who are admitted after 31 December 2016, all obligations with the reform complement continue to be assumed by Carris. But this same Decree-Law, when defining these scenarios, adds other scenarios. With this diploma—and, in fact, without any involvement and discussion with the representative organisations of the workers, who have been rented out of this whole process—the Government has extinguished the right of access to the Special Fund of the Staff Security Fund of the company Carris de Ferro de Lisboa for workers admitted after 31 December 2016, withdrawing a right to new workers and denying a right with retroactive effects to meanwhile admitted workers. This brings together the introduction of a standard which seeks to establish the imperative of the provisions of this Decree-Law on all legal or conventional standards contrary, as well as on the instruments of collective regulation, proposal and perspective that we reject at all. Collective recruitment is a fundamental right of workers, recognized by the Constitution, and a very important instrument for improving the conditions of work and development of the country. Collective recruitment is an indispensable tool for ensuring progress in working conditions and for a fairer distribution of wealth. And those who are the rights enshrined in collective regulatory instruments must be protected, respected and safeguarded, cannot be forgotten and cannot be run. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CFP opposed this whole process of municipalization of Carris. And in all this process, including this Decree-Law, which we do not turn off from this path that has been chosen, we have growing concerns regarding the provision of public service, as well as regarding the safeguarding of the rights of Carris workers. And in defending this, we believe that it was important to raise this discussion to ensure that the concerns expressed by Carris workers and their representative organisations were translated into concrete proposals to ensure that this diploma is not an instrument for withdrawing workers' rights. It was precisely in this sense that we submitted proposals for amendments that aim to clarify the set of company agreements that are considered under this diploma; safeguard collective bargaining, eliminating the article that determines the imperative of this diploma on collective labour regulation instruments; and ensuring that all Carris workers have exactly the same rights in the present and future. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u85	Mr Heitor Sousa has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u86	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The amendments tabled by the Left Block Parliamentary Group under Parliamentary Assessment No 45 / XIII ( 2 ) ( a ) have as objectives the clarification and / or correction of Decree-Law No 95 / 2017 of 10 August in three essential points: firstly, that the collective contract in force on 31 December 2016 in respect of the definition of survival, disability and old age supplements applicable to reformed workers by that date is respected; secondly, that the transfer of responsibility for the financing of supplementary benefits paid under the Special Fund of the Caris de Ferro Company Staff Safety Fund of Lisbon until 31 January 2017 ; and thirdly, that the definition of these reform supplements, for those still active, will not be adversely affected in the future, in the meantime their professional situation will be improved, which is expected and wishes, by means of remuneration changes that took place after 31 December 2016. The cornerstone of this set of changes rests on compliance with the legislation in force in Carris, as a result of the collective agreement of the company in force. It is therefore argued that the clause of imperative which the Decree-Law includes in its Article 10. it is replaced by a new Article 10. the, referring to the most favourable treatment, laying down that « the provisions of this Decree-Law may only be removed by an instrument of collective regulation of work available in the most favourable sense to the worker, prevailing over all legal or conventional norms otherwise». About the Special Fund of the Carris de Ferro de Lisboa Staff Safety Box, I want to leave a few words of clarification. First of all, the Special Fund for the Staff Safety Box of the company Carris de Ferro de Lisboa, created by Ministerial Office of 25 October 1967, published in Diário da República, II Series of 20 November 1967, is governed by Regulation No 72 / 86 of 23 August, which establishes the Regulation of the Special Fund for the Safety Box of the personnel of the company Carris de Ferro de Lisboa, and establishes in Article 4(1) (a ). , that « the value of the pension supplement due to invalidity or old age is determined by the application of the 12 % rate on the average remuneration which serves as a basis for the calculation of the amount of the pension to be allocated by the general social security scheme » and, in point ( b ), that « for the calculation of the average remuneration referred to in the preceding paragraph only the remuneration to be taken into account for the entry of contributions to the special fund in accordance with Article 5. o. Do not keep on seeking. ” Secondly, the application of this rate was variable according to the number of years old and according to Article 3. the Regulation Order No 72 / 86, of 23 August, which regulates the general conditions of allocation, the right to benefits of the special fund depends on the completion of a minimum period of 60 months of discount for the special fund, and assigns pension supplements in terms of disability, old age and survival. Thirdly, the payment of the Special Fund was thus an additional 60 months from its initial period of absence to the pension supplements provided for under the applicable collective regulation instrument, so in this case, if it is to regulate its extinction, it will be necessary to safeguard acquired rights and not leave out any worker who is in a position to be covered. And, while there is a temporary hiatus in Decree-Law No 95 / 2017 of 10 August, between the time when the transfer of the responsibilities formed in respect of pension supplements of reformed workers until 31 December 2016, whose pension training rights are to be determined in accordance with the applicable rules of collective bargaining, in the wording in force on 31 December 2016, in view of the time when the Special Fund is to formally cease its validity, 31 January 2017, we propose that this hiatus be guarded, extending the validity of the Standard Dispatch No 72 / 86 until 31 January 2017, due to the employees of the Retired Caris until 31 December 2016 and to the employees working in the company until 31 January 2017. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u87	Mr Heitor Sousa has clearly benefited from excessive time which has been granted to him by the Bureau. I use to announce that either the Left Block or the PCP have submitted amendments to Decree-Law No 95 / 2017 in the Bureau and that these amendments are down to 10. the Commission. In the meantime, the Government is represented here by the Secretary of State for Social Security, who has signed up to intervene and to whom I now give the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u88	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With regard to the request for parliamentary approval which we are discussing today, I would like to clarify the scope of this Decree-Law. This Decree-Law does not, nor does it intend to determine or condition the rights of Carris workers, it is instead to determine what is the responsibility of the State, through the General Credentials Board, for the payment of these supplements. In other words, the company agreement determines all the workers' rights and maintains itself. The question is what is the responsibility and until and for which workers is that it remains, in accordance with Decree-Law No. 86 - D / 2016, which has already been appreciated here, as responsibility of the General Board of Submissions or as responsibility of the company. So workers do not lose any rights. Compliance with the clause determining the complement to which they are entitled shall remain. And it remains at the centre of negotiation between workers and companies. Having said this, what does this Decree-Law determine? It determines the responsibilities of the General Appeals Board. And it assumes the responsibilities with the supplements that were in payment, either from the Carris Special Fund or the supplements that were being supported by the Carris company, making it important to clarify that the value of the supplements is deducted from the value of the Special Fund complement. The complement of the Special Fund is not a complement to the part and assigned autonomously to the Carris complements. Carris supplements are deducted from the value of the Special Fund. A worker entering the company from 1 January 2017 does not lose his rights, has the value of the complement provided for in the agreement of the company; it does not have the payment resulting from the Special Fund. I also use it to clarify that the Special Fund is deficient — and it is defective by around EUR 10 million per year. In order to be able to maintain the Special Fund in a balanced way and for the new workers, we would have to equalize the increase in the contributions of workers and Carris, which is currently between 2, 5 % and 0, 5 %. We are talking about a special fund which is defective at EUR 10 million per year, and that is what the government assumes by paying the General Tax Card. I also clarify that the workers who entered or were in the company and, therefore, the responsibilities assumed on that date are assured by the General Board of Appeals and, of course, taking into account what is the company's wage policy until that date. Otherwise, we would be paying the General Pension Fund and the State with a future wage policy that depends solely on the company. All this without harming the one who is the right of workers—that is what it is important to be very clear here. Therefore, the State assumes all responsibilities by that date, with all the assumptions that were and ensuring everything. The company, Carris, is responsible for all the necessary supplements, whether for workers entering from 1 January or for those who were already active before, in order to complement them until they have the value. This is very important. With regard to the question of 1 February, this Decree-Law was limited to fulfilling what was in the other decree-law which has already been the subject of parliamentary consideration. The General Pension Fund will make the payment from February, being the month of January of Carris' responsibility, without taking any right away from the workers. The « photography », we call it the workers who are the object of these supplements is that it is 31 December 2016. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u89	For an intervention, Mrs Sandra Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u90	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : « Soon and well there is no one». The government, in a hurry, motivated by electoralism, was to run, deliver Carris to the City Hall of Lisbon, and made him so astonished that they are precisely his partners who are here to demand parliamentary approval and correct this diploma. The municipalization of Carris, it is known, is a model that is of the entire responsibility of the left, and is a model that gives the municipality of Lisbon desputably to the detriment of all others and, most seriously, to the detriment of those who are served by Caris. Will VV. Ex.s will be able to explain to the Municips of Oeiras, Odivelas, Amadora, Loures and Almada, where Carris also operates, why do they not have the same benefits as the lisboets? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u91	Why, for example, do Odivelas children not also have the right to free transportation? [[PSD applause.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, are you or are you not able to explain why people over the age of 65 who are from Amadora, Almada or Loures don't have the same discount as the lisboets in the passes? Why? Are you able to explain this to us? This model is not only fair as it was precipitated and creates inequalities between users and workers, as it is seen today. The Government has been captured by the ideological option of a policy of reversals required by the left — in this case, by the Communist Party — to maintain its clientele. And I leave a warning here, ladies and gentlemen. Members: It is true that workers cannot be harmed in their acquired rights, but the option of transferring the payment of these supplements to the General Pension Fund will aggravate the deficit of this system and compromise its sustainability and create more pressure in the Budget. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u92	Let's wait, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this apparent caution of workers' rights, which today promises to pay everything to everyone, does not end up tomorrow without paying anyone anything.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u93	Exactly! Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u94	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u95	That is why our model was much better: it was a model that ensured public service and generated efficiency and sustainability, which is something that you don't know at all. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, we have to make it clear that the PS and the government have put the entire country to support the tasks of a Lisbon company that only confers benefits on the municipalities of Lisbon, just because their concern is not to manage the country, it is to feed this government solution. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u96	On behalf of the Socialist Party, Mr Ricardo Bexiga has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I would also like to congratulate the representatives of the Caris workers present in the galleries and to say that, in the view of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, the Carris municipalization process is one of the main commitments made by this Government. To reverse the privatisation of the company by defending the public interests of its workers and users as well as by strengthening the competences of local and inter-municipal authorities in the management of essential public services was indeed a great achievement of this government. Mrs Sandra Pereira, if the model they were defending for the privatisation of the company had gone forward, she could not be here today to defend this reorganization and the extension of the services of this company to the councils which, at the moment, will certainly also benefit from the new model of management and operation of Carris. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The employees of the company intervened and participated very closely in this process of reorganisation of the ownership of the company and its management model and know well that it was thanks to this process of municipalization of the public passenger surface transport service in Lisbon that neither investment in equipment nor its rights acquired as workers with many years of service in the company were seriously impaired, as they would certainly be with the privatization model of the previous Government. It was thanks to the municipalization of Carris that the ownership and management of the company remained in the municipality of Lisbon, which also assumed the responsibility and competence of the transport authority regarding the service provided by the company. Workers know and recognize that the State, in conjunction with the city of Lisbon, has assumed several responsibilities that ensure that the new model and the new management conditions will not be affected by the company's previous historical vicissitudes and contingencies, in particular from the financial point of view, being transferred to the municipality a company with the conditions to assume the new responsibilities assigned to it by the Government in the management of the mobility and public transport of people in the metropolitan area of Lisbon. The State thus assumed the historical financial debt of Carris, the responsibility for the financial operations undertaken by the company and the responsibilities trained or in training with the supplementary pension of workers. Of course, by moving the municipality to assume the results of the operation of the company and the responsibilities of management from 31 December 2016, it would not make sense that the State would continue to assume responsibility for decisions that do not compete with it and that begin to compete, from this date, with Carris. Therefore, with regard to the complement to the reform of workers, everything that is the rights acquired by workers is assumed by the State, and of course is assumed by the company from 31 December 2016. Therefore, workers must not be afraid that their acquired rights and interests are somehow impaired. Everything that was not left in the State will naturally change under the applicable contractual rules and legal rules to be the responsibility of the company. They can therefore remain calm, because not only are their rights respected and guaranteed as they finally know that the company has the necessary conditions...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u98	Mr. Deputies, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u99	I will finish, Madam President. As I said, the company has the necessary conditions to perform, in an effective way, the development of services as important as those assigned to it in the development of mobility and in ensuring public transport of passengers in the metropolitan area of Lisbon. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u100	Mr Hélder Amaral of the CDS-PP has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretarys of State, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members : I would like to begin by telling Mr. Ricardo Bexiga that, in fact, the previous model, as you well know, strengthened the powers of the municipalities, the metropolitan transport authorities — until we changed the legal regimes so that municipalities could have an active part in defining the network and the supply of public services.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u102	But they were privatizing!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u103	But it is clear that what is at issue is no longer that model, this one. On this model, I realized what the Secretary of State for Social Security said. You are absolutely right and what you say is true, as Mr. Ricardo Bexiga has just said. But it's not nice for you to pay the loyalty of the PCP and the Block with that betrayal. It's not nice to fool the partners! In fact, when we looked at the first parliamentary assessment that was giving Carris to the city of Lisbon, Mr Bruno Dias, for example, said : « Allow me to greet the workers and users of the transports here present, in the galleries, and reaffirm the solidarity of the CFP towards their struggle. (...) We want to contribute to the safeguarding of the public character(...) and the rights of workers(...) » — this work with rights. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, are you not going to apologize and are you not ashamed of the way the workers are being deceived? Oh, my God! in the proposed amendments we also read that the rights of workers must be safeguarded. Therefore, the PCP did everything right and the Block « idem, quotes quotes ». But what they bring in the context of this new Parliamentary assessment is something that the Secretary of State has explained very well: in fact, the State is only responsible until the date of the transfer of Carris to the municipality—and then, as you say, there is a standard with imperative, which overlaps all standards, which limits for the future the right to supplement the reform of workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u104	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u105	You're absolutely right. But you know what, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen? I said here, a number of times, as the regulator also said, that for us there were de facto amendments to the concession contract, as regards the heritage and defence of workers, and that the regulator should have given a prior regulatory opinion, but you were against the CDS. Do you know what was stated on November 21 in the agreement of principle between the State and Carris? I shall read to you, Mr Member: 'The State shall also assume the responsibilities of training or training relating to the supplementary pensions of employees employed in the Caris at the date of transmission of the company to the municipality, under the current company agreement in force on that date. » That is what the Secretary of State said. And then he says more: « Carris will assume all responsibilities for workers who are being hired after the date of the company's transmission to the municipality(... ). » Where is the doubt? Oh, my God! You should have been ashamed to have let themselves be deceived and failed with the workers, with the public service and with the users! It's all clear! It was in the agreement of principle, it was in the first parliamentary review and it is in the second parliamentary assessment that, in fact, until the date of the transfer of Carris to the municipality, all the responsibilities with supplements and pensions would be of the State and would then pass to Carris. As Mr Bexiga said, well, the state cannot assume responsibilities that are now Carris. Where is the doubt, sir? Ladies and gentlemen? What happened, sirs. Members — you should be ashamed and apologize — it was in fact they were concerned only with one thing: to reverse the previous process, to ensure, as they assured, that municipalities could not, under any circumstances, make sub-concessions to private people. [[Protests by Mr. BE Heitor Sousa.]] It was an ideological war and they failed in what was your primary obligation, which is the defense of workers, the defense of public service, the defense of users. Some days ago, someone sent me a picture of a Carris panel saying « service disturbed». I took some time to realize what that meant, but now I realized: it's Carris' service, it's the workers and it's the management that live in permanent disturbance. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u106	For a new intervention, and to conclude this debate, Mrs Diana Ferreira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u107	Mr President, I should like to start by telling Mrs Sandra Pereira and Mr Hélder Amaral that we fully understand the interventions they have made, because what they wanted to privatize Carris was that, indeed, did not happen. [[Well, well!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u108	What you have done — and well, let it be said that you are passing through — during your government was effectively attacking and undermining the rights of workers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u109	And now what are you doing?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u110	So we realize that, for you, safeguarding workers' rights is indeed a strange thing. But the PCP will be here to play that role. [[PCP applause.]] Mr. Secretary of State for Social Security, we have heard the statement and the clarifications he gave on this diploma. Article 10. this diploma does not leave us rest, because it is an article of imperative. If, indeed, it is intended to maintain all workers'rights, as the Secretary of State has stated, then the proposed amendments to the CFP are adopted,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u111	... in particular the elimination of this article of imperative in safeguarding the rights of workers in Carris. The rights of the workers were won with their struggle, were not offered, and this is the defense we make of the struggle of the workers of Carris. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u112	Mrs. Members, completed the assessment of Decree-Law No 95 / 2017, we moved to the fifth point of the agenda, which consists of the joint discussion, in general, of the projects of lein.o 539 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Extends the scope of labelling rules for genetically modified foods ( The Greens ), 639 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Making the labelling and supervision rules concerning the presence of genetically modified organisms more transparent, ensuring consumer access to information ( PAN) and 641 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Right to information to consumers on genetically modified foods ( GMOs) ( second amendment to Decree-Law No 72 / 2003 of 10 April 2003 ) ( BE ). To present Bill No. 539 / XIII ( 2. ( a ), Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u113	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As already in this Parliament — as in other cases before it — the Greens have submitted a bill to prohibit deliberate cultivation and release in the environment of genetically modified organisms. It would not be truly innovative at European Union level, given that other countries, for reasons of safety and application of the precautionary principle, have just taken that decision. in this framework, for a matter of safeguarding the territory, the environment, the consumption itself, The Greens considered it important to have taken this measure. Unfortunately, the PSD, the CDS and the PS have led to this initiative by The Greens, and therefore the authorisation framework for the cultivation of genetically modified organisms in Portugal is maintained, safeguarding those regions which, on their own initiative, have been considered free of genetically modified organisms. in this framework, the Greens consider that at least one thing must be done to safeguard consumers. There are studies at European Union level that make it very clear that the generality of consumers does not accept the consumption of genetically modified organisms and has great reluctance, let us say, to the generalization and supply of these products on the market. However, there is a fragility on the part of the consumer: the current legislation determines that only if the product has genetically modified organisms in excess of 0, 9 % is required to label them. However, if the consumer wants to be truly free from the consumption of genetically modified organisms and the product is below 0, 9 %, the consumer has no such information and, scientifically, it is possible to detect this presence of genetically modified organisms, so this non-information to the consumer is intended only to serve the multinationals of the agri-food sector and nothing more. But there is a priority principle here, which is consumer protection and information. from which the Greens now propose that, whatever the percentage of contamination, the product should contain information on the presence of genetically modified organisms ( GMOs) on its label. It's a consumer's right. On the other hand, there are certain products for which it is not clear why information is not provided to the consumer, namely products of animal origin from genetically modified feed animals. Why should these products of animal origin not bring on their label information to the consumer that that animal was fed with GMOs? In fact, there are very many gaps in the law that weaken consumer rights and, in fact, tend only to serve the multinationals of the agri-food sector.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u114	For an intervention by the NAP, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u115	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: First of all, I would like to congratulate the Green Party on the schedule of this initiative, which joins the debate that the NAP has already started in March, with a draft law on the importance of labelling meat, milk and eggs whose animals have been fed with rations based on GMOs. Today we strengthen this position with this debate and we also congratulate the Left Block on having joined us with contributions in this regard: the right of information to the consumer, which the State does not guarantee. With today's initiative, the NAP goes further and proposes that all commercial establishments operating with non-prepacked foods be obliged to inform consumers of the presence of GMOs in the raw materials with which food and meals are made, since the labelling of raw materials with reference to GMOs is already mandatory and known by food-making companies. This information is very relevant because the consumer does not know that he is consuming a food good that integrates GMOs and this can be a determining factor in abstinuing from the consumption of this good. Law No 24/96 expressly states that it is the supplier of goods or services that has to fully inform the consumer. But the law has a gap, because it does not meet the objective of the clear consumption of those who acquire unpacked food. Let us look at two examples: the law requires the labelling of all foods containing GMOs purchased in a supermarket, but the information of a meal served in a restaurant or canteen made with these foods does not reach consumers. in the same way, bakery and pastry professionals have access to knowledge of the possible presence of GMOs in flours, due to mandatory labelling in bags, but citizens are prevented from knowing whether the bread or cakes they buy and eat are produced or not with GMO flours. This is what is happening in our country today. The legislation itself recognizes that consumers can be influenced in their choices by health, economic, environmental, social and ethical considerations. hence the importance of the compulsoryity of clear, comprehensible and legible labels for food. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, the NAP considers that neither the ethical aspects nor the precautionary principle should be ignored when discussing the right to information and also taking into account the fact that it is a Community imperative that information on GMO should be contained at all stages of placing products on the market. So we can only conclude that this obligation is also imposed for consumer information on the consumption of non-prepacked foodstuffs. That is the only way to achieve the right to information for consumers. Not to approve this bill today is to continue the misinformation of the citizens and it is to lead to the production of food and intensive livestock production.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u116	To present the bill of the Left Block, Mr. Pedro Filipe Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u117	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This debate is not about genetically modified organisms, about their cultivation, about their distribution, about their permission or not to use them in Portugal. If so, the Left Block, as you have already defended in this House, would be against, but knowing that in the past the PS, PSD and CDS have prevented this ban. With this attitude they left the most defenseless populations in front of multinationals who use these seeds for their business, who are not properly tested on public health and the safety of their consumption. We therefore find that, not being banned, we have today, apart from its distribution and consumption, a huge lack of information that does not even allow for free choice. This is the theme of this debate: if a person who buys a product has or does not have the right to know whether it contains genetically modified organisms, whether it comes from the transformation of genetically modified organisms and whether it is freely aware of this information, it may or may not then make its choice in full consciousness. I believe that the debate here shows that there is no proper protection of people in this area and that there is clearly a need to improve the law. This is the proposal that the Left Block brings the debate together with the proposals of the People-Animal-Nature Party and the Greens Ecological Party, which aim to bring greater transparency. We are then confronted with the debate that those who defend the free choice of people argue that this free choice can be exercised in its entirety, that is, in ensuring that they have access to all information. It is that the cases are several, as reality demonstrates. If today we go to a meat company to buy meat, we often cannot tell us whether the animals from where that meat came from were fed with genetically modified organisms or not. If we buy processed products with flour, they often cannot tell us if this flour comes from products with genetically modified organisms. Therefore, they do not give anyone transparency and information due so that they can choose according to their conscience and their free will. Therefore, we demand only that there be transparency, so that all products, all the derivatives of genetically modified organisms are clearly and unequivocally identified, as well as that the gap in the law, which says that only above a certain percentage of genetically modified organisms is that there is an obligation to put on the label this information — even that gap — is removed and that the law is completely transparent, whatever the percentage, that there is an indication that it has genetically modified organisms. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the question is therefore clear: do you want to give people, consumers, the right to choose with consciousness the freedom that knowledge really brings or will you continue to attack this freedom and that knowledge to defend companies that often, as we already know, do not have practices either socially or even economically acceptable? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u118	Continuing with the debate, you now have the floor for an intervention by the Socialist Party, Mrs Palmira Maciel.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u119	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Food is essential to life. The European Union is one of the world's strictest food laws and genetically modified crops are allowed only after a deep, scientific and risk-dependent assessment. With regard to the provision of information to consumers on foodstuffs, Community legislation aims to achieve a high level of consumer protection, protect their health and ensure their right to information, ensuring the free movement of safe food on the internal market. The authorisation of these genetically modified organisms at European Union level shall be carried out following a rigorous assessment of the risks carried out by the European Food Safety Authority ( EFSA ). After authorisation, the countries of the European Union may prohibit the use of the genetically modified product in their territory only by using the so-called « safeguard clause », and must justify this decision by proving that genetically modified organisms can cause harm to humans and the environment. The European Food Safety Authority shall assess the safety of genetically modified organisms prior to their authorisation by each Member State with a view to their use as food or feed or for their cultivation in the European Union. Applications shall be submitted to the competent national authority of each Member State, which, in turn, shall forward them to the European authority. The European Commission assumes traceability, defining it as the ability to trace food, as well as products manufactured from it, in all its stages of placing on the market throughout production and distribution chains, facilitating control and ensuring the possibility of withdrawal of products, if necessary. This legislative package is complemented by sectoral legislation such as the labelling regulation of genetically modified organisms and guides the further development of food law within the European Union. National legislation follows the concerns described above and transposes these concerns into the domestic legal order. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have one of the world's strictest food laws in the European Union and genetically modified crops are only allowed after a deep and scientific assessment of the risks. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u120	For an intervention on behalf of the PSD, Mr António Ventura has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u121	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : It is interesting to make some considerations on the proposals presented here today. First, I want to say that the PSD has been, is and will always be in favour of the transparency of food information, as you have already shown here. In fact, he was a pioneer in the labeling of milk, as the three parties that present these proposals today have plummeted. But what the PSD cannot be in favour of information that will confuse consumers, that does not respect science and that is close to subjectivity. That is what we are actually talking about here today, and this is the first question. As regards the proposed amendments, the wording of which is almost all the same, in one way or another, we will take as an example the Greens proposal which, in Article 16. the, says, « in respect of products for which it is not possible to exclude the existence of unforeseeable or technically inevitable traces of GMOs, this information is mandatory to the consumer. Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” In practice, however, it is almost enough to dream that there is a GMO in a food to be required to mention it on the label. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, this is contrary to the rules of science, the margin of science error. So, thus, we would have to review everything, our existence, the drugs we took...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u122	Our existence I don't know!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u123	What you want is to put on the label something that science can't even prove. This is what's at stake here! Thirdly, I would like to say that there is already a lot of legislation on GMOs, which are monitored, monitored and tested at European and national level. On this, indeed, there is debate and, on the other hand, science has not yet proved that they are a bad thing. With this legislation, you are harming national production. And why? Because if this legislation were adopted — and I think that these proposals cannot be approved — they would require Portuguese products to have on the label something that the other Member States do not have. Therefore, they are going against national production and creating a choice preference that will further affect producers' incomes. It is interesting to see parties come to this Parliament saying that they defend national production and then present such legislation as this, which has not been evaluated or presented throughout the European Union. It's gone - your mask! Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, that's the same thing as hitting palms with only one hand. It's impossible! You are against national production. On the other hand, these initiatives relating to the labelling of GMOs are always born of a preconceived idea on your part — rather than saying that they do not — that they are only harmful foods that do harm. Let me tell you that nothing is defined, and biotechnology has borne much fruit in favour of the development of human existence. The PSD will always respect the precautionary principle and recognise science and therefore cannot be in favour of these initiatives. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u124	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Patrícia Fonseca, on behalf of the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u125	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, today we have once again discussed in this Parliament the issue of GMOs, which has been brought here so many times, always by the same parties. in this the CDS-PP is clear: the current legislation requires the publication in the Journal of the Republic of the Marketing Authorisation of products containing GMOs. This authorization is an extremely complex process, highly scrutinyed, subject to the validation of numerous entities, particularly the Directorate-General for Health, and therefore extremely safe. The current legislation also determines that marketing can only take place after that authorisation. The legal framework also determines that the label should clearly define, as mentioned above, that the product contains genetically modified organisms and therefore it seems to me to be ensured, safeguarded transparency and the right of information to consumers, which are the main object of these three draft laws. If the consumer wants to have the 100 % absolute guarantee that there is no type of GMO in the products he consumes, he has a very clear option: he can consume organic products, because in these, production standards guarantee trace 0, 0 % if they are — and are safe. It's just these projects, sirs. Members, they want to go much further than the current law, beyond the legislation of the other European countries and beyond what is often technically and scientifically possible to determine. Further, therefore, than it is, technically and scientifically, also possible to monitor. In fact, there have been numerous attempts at transmission to public opinion, in a fundamentally alarmist perspective, of little enlightening information — as, indeed, here today, examples — on the use of products resulting from genetically modified organisms, both in human and animal nutrition, in particular by comparing them with products that potentially cause allergies or intolerance. It's a wrong transmission. Mrs Heloísa Apolónia said that the majority of European public opinion is against or wants information about GMOs. The problem, Mrs Deputies, is that generally those who manifest themselves in all the public consultations that the European Union is making are the environmental movements that mobilize themselves to this and therefore distort the outcome completely. That's more than known. As far as bread is concerned, this is another misinformation, Mr André Silva, because there is no bread with GMO. [[Protests by PAN MP André Silva.]] Consumers can be completely safe because the only GMO product that is possible to produce in the European Union is maize, a specific variety of maize. So there's no imported flour to make bread. Bread in Portugal is made with flour produced in the European Union without GMOs, other than an event, one specific, one exclusive. The legal framework in force provides for the non-compulsory mention of GMOs on the label in the event that it is technically inevitable or impossible to exclude the accidental existence of traces below that threshold of 0, 9 %, which is less than 1 %. Already in 2000, The Greens presented draft resolution No. 37/ VIII, which recommended, precisely, compulsory labelling, and which was approved. Today, in the case of feed, I would like to mention, in conclusion, the reason why animal products cannot contain labelling — you do not know why: it is because the protein is digested and it is not scientifically possible to detect the presence of GMOs in meat, milk and eggs.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u126	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u127	I'm finishing up, Madam President. That is why these three foods are excluded from labelling. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u128	Mr João Ramos of the CFP has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u129	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Genetically modified bodies have deserved several interventions from the CFP Parliamentary Group since the VIIIth Parliament. Through this intervention, the CFP has given its views on GMOs. For the PCP, production of GMOs is indispensable, admitting its use for scientific, medicinal or relevant public interest purposes. GMOs are of great interest to multinationals that trade them and to agribusiness, always eager for more profits and minimal environmental concerns. GMO agriculture is not the country's main concern, where the vast majority of farms and farmers are included in family agriculture, small and medium sized agriculture, an agriculture where traditional and conventional production is best suited to its characteristics, production conditions and country needs, responding to a quality and diversity production that a GMO agriculture does not have the conditions to ensure. Current knowledge of GMOs and reality continues to require the application of the precautionary principle for these organisms. On the contrary, it is not guaranteed that there is no effect of genetically modified organisms on the environment, on cultures and on health. Therefore, in view of the conditions under which GMOs are produced, with the decision of their use by the Portuguese State, with the right to plant them over the right not to plant them, more necessary is the protection of consumers and therefore it is essential to provide all the necessary information, so that citizens can make the decisions they consider most appropriate. The CFP Parliamentary Group therefore follows the concern raised by the Greens Ecological Party's agenda, its project and the other projects under discussion and agrees that the labelling of food products for human consumption should be very clear as to the information on the composition of the products. We understand that the speciality process can and should reconcile formulations of the different projects. The CFP assumes its position vis-à-vis the GMOs, helping to strengthen the precautions for the use of these organisms. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u130	At the conclusion of the debate, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u131	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I think you were well aware that this Greens project has nothing to do with the authorisation of the production of genetically modified organisms, but with information to the consumer. There were absolutely hilarious things said here. in a desire to defend the interests of multinationals such as Monsanto, Syngenta and others, you do not care to preserve consumer rights. Many things have been said here, but to say that this legislation will confuse consumers, as if they were all crazy, and to say that there is certain information that should not be provided to them because they are confused is a great disrespect, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen! [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]] Then they say that it is enough to dream that there are genetically modified organisms in a given product and then put on the label. Don't! So you don't trust science? Oh, my God! Do they not know that science and technology can effectively detect the presence of GMOs below 0, 9 % and that these 0, 9 % have only been dictated to protect the interests of the multinationals of the agri-food sector? What are you afraid of giving this information to consumers? I think this is basic! You have shown here that you prefer to protect the interests of multinationals in the agri-food sector rather than consumer rights, and that is absolutely regrettable! [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u132	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, after the debate on this item on the agenda, I would like to remind you of the honourable Members and the honourable Members. Members who are holding elections for external bodies. I therefore call on everyone to address Conference Room D. Maria and to vote in the election to the Higher Council for Internal Security, the Regulatory Council of the ERC ( Regulatory Entity for Social Communication ), the Board for the Monitoring of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic, the National Data Protection Commission, the Board for the Control of the DNA Profile Database, the National Education Council and the Ombudsman. We shall continue with the assessment of petition No 271 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — They call for political and legislative measures concerning the weight of school backpacks ( José Manuel Franco Wallenstein Teixeira and others) together with draft resolution No 1088 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures aimed at reducing the weight of school backpacks ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and NAP ). For an intervention, Mr Amadeu Alberbergaria has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u133	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: More than 50 000 Portuguese have signed a petition, demonstrating their concern about the excessive weight of school backpacks and proposing a set of measures to help resolve the problem. I would therefore like to congratulate all the petitioners in the person of Mr Wallenstein, who is the first subscriber to the petition now under discussion. The problem for which this petition alerts us and calls us to find a solution is a problem that exists, it is a problem that is of concern, it is a problem that deserves a solution. I would like to convey to you, Vice-President, and through you to all petitioners, that the parties seated in this Chamber have reached a consensus and have drawn up a joint draft resolution. There is, therefore, unanimity on a set of measures that are considered useful to eliminate the excessive weight of school backpacks. To reach this joint initiative, a working group, which received written contributions from several entities, held several hearings and gathered information on best international practices. We believe that this draft resolution is going against the motivation that led thousands of Portuguese to sign this petition. We have tabled 11 proposals, ranging from awareness-raising campaigns to the recommendation for schools to be equipped with lockers. I would like to thank all the parties for their willingness to find a consensus and the work that has allowed this House today to make a set of recommendations to the Portuguese Government with one voice, making clear the political will and legislative will in the resolution of this problem. I am sure that, with this project, the Ministry of Education will contribute quickly and effectively to solving the problem of excess weight of our students' backpacks. I shall finish by repeating my congratulations to the petitioners and to all parties and leaving a word of thanks to the members of the Committee on Education and Science. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u134	I am also very grateful to you, Mr Amadeu Alberbergaria, as coordinator—I did not mention it recently—of the working group of which this joint initiative resulted. For an intervention on behalf of the Socialist Party, Mrs Susana Amador has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u135	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : I also address a greeting from the Socialist Party to the petitioners, about 50 000, in the person of the first proposer, José Wallenstein, a sign of the vitality of our participatory democracy and of the great mobilization around a matter that we consider relevant. The first note that I wanted to leave, on behalf of the Socialist Party, is that, of course, the right to health and well-being of our children and young people refers us to the Convention on the Rights of Children and is, of course, a political imperative, a programmatic imperative and, as a result, the Socialist Party has demonstrated its willingness, in convergence and consensus, to find a set of measures, solutions and recommendations that can, of course, change this problem which has been diagnosed for many years. The truth is that the health of our children and our young people and students is something we deserve particular concern and, according to the petitioners, urges to resolve the serious public health problem that excess weight carried in our backpacks could carry for the health of our children and our young people. The World Health Organization ( WHO ), the DECO, the Observatory for Educational Resources ( ORE ), a set of national, European and international bodies have been warning about the weight of backpacks, which should not exceed what is clinically recommended, which is between 10 % and 15 % of the student's body weight. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group therefore recognises that this health issue had to be addressed. After we have written contributions in our working group, after listening to the parents, through the National Confederation of Associations of Parents (COFAP) and the CNIPE (Independent Confederation of Parents and Educational Officers ), after listening to the Directorate-General for Health and the areas of pediatrics and orthopaedics, we have been able to draw up a text that largely has recommendations at three levels. The first is at the level of school buildings, for their future adaptation, in terms of lockers and classroom fixed by class; the second is at the level of school manuals and didactic resources and an improvement of pedagogical practices, we recommend the gradual use of digital media and the mention of the weight of school textbooks; and, lastly, this is also very important, at the level of awareness-raising and education for health with a national campaign involving teachers, parents and students and also, of course, the need for training guidelines for students and the in-depth study of the Directorate-General for Health. That is, a tripartite level where the central power and the Ministry of Education, the local level, the school and the families are called upon to participate in this process and in this problem, aiming at solving it. In conclusion, I want to say that this is a debate that should call us for physical education, for the practice of healthy habits in our children and, from an interministerial point of view, the education and health teams at government level have been worrying, in particular, about visual health, oral health and school feeding of our children, and this is a process that also requires this interministerial articulation. Finally, we want, above all, today's children to be healthy adults tomorrow, and the important thing is not to add years to life but to add healthy life to the years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u136	Mrs. Joana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u137	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: As has already been said, the parliamentary groups acknowledged that the concern of the community, in relation to the weight of the backpacks children carry to school every day, was so important and was so expressed in the quantity of signatures that this petition gathered them to sit down and to try to find solutions together, with the notion that the solutions they could find together, possibly not corresponding to all the proposals that each of the parties would have to submit, because they would have to be united among the parliamentary groups also have to be addressed by the government with the strength given by this Parliament with the unanimity that they have managed to build. So first of all, I want to say that Parliament and the parliamentary groups have responded in the best way to the petition that has been submitted and to the concern that has been shown to us with the creation of this working group, which the Left Block has also suggested, and in seeking consensus in the proposals put forward. We are aware that much of the solution needed to solve this public health problem, which will eventually condition the health of these children for many years, has to do with education — health education, health prevention education, not only on the issue of the weight of the backpacks but also on the position of the children, education for awareness, not only of the students but also of the families and schools, for the way in which it should be a backpack, as it should be filled with the materials, awareness of the students for the posture they should have. Therefore, health education is a matter that we must always have on our horizon and that we must always seek in a cross-sectional way. As has already been said, there are some areas in which we have sought to find consensual measures. It is necessary to find ways that schools can have lockers, so that children can leave their materials there. But this is not enough because, if the school is not pedagogically organized, if its organization does not allow hours, in terms of the articulation of housework, in terms of the organization of the classroom—and we recommend that students have, preferably, only a classroom, so that they can leave their materials there— this is not possible. Therefore, the whole school organization has to have, in addition to the pedagogical criteria, health criteria and health preservation, in this case to enhance this care with the weight of the backpacks. We then have another matter which we will have to continue to deepen — and which will still return to this Parliament, because it does not run out here — and which has to do with school textbooks,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u138	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u139	... with the dematerialization of school textbooks, with the way the school finds the technology and how the technology enters the school and can be used. from a pedagogical point of view, there are still many questions to be raised. The Left Block certainly did not see all the proposals that it would have if it were a Left Block initiative exhausted in this draft resolution. We are pleased that we have given in to what has been needed to reach a consensus, and all parliamentary groups have done so, and I hope that the government will now pay much attention to what will come out of Parliament and that corresponds to the anxiety of the petitioners and the community. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u140	For an intervention, Mrs Ilda Araújo Novo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u141	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Buy me, on behalf of the CDS, to greet and greet the almost 50,000 petitioners in the person of his first subscriber, José Manuel Wallenstein. The CDS-PP recognises the importance of a joint response by the Assembly of the Republic to the concerns expressed and, to this extent, committed itself to the working group set up for this purpose, with the aim of reaching an extended consensus. We are concerned with all the opinions and recommendations requested and the numerous hearings that have been made — and we cannot fail to point out its valuable contribution — although it is, in our view, a matter that is more relevant to the informed practice than to legislative initiatives, we believe that we should give this House recommendations to the Government through a draft resolution. I am therefore pleased to be able to state on behalf of the CDS that a joint draft resolution has been implemented, in which the Government is recommended a set of measures aimed at reducing the weight of school backpacks. of the recommendations, we can point out, as necessary and essential, a good monitoring process by parents and education officers regarding the weight of school backpacks, given that their content is necessary or not. We also understand that it is necessary and essential to carry out this monitoring in conjunction with schools and teachers, paying attention to the pursuit of good pedagogical practices, which promote less daily weight of school backpacks. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u142	In this regard, all publishers offer cumulatively with the acquisition of paper manuals access to the digital manual. Being aware that it is not possible to replace paper manuals with digital support manuals, but today schools, in general, equipped with technological structures, are to promote the use of digital support. However, it is necessary to consider its generalization or universalization, because the goodness of the claim can result in discrimination and the empowerment of social and economic differences. [[Sure!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u143	In conclusion, of the contributions we have received and of what happens to be the practice implemented in other countries, which most of them believe to be a subject of the forum of schools and families, there are, in fact, objective guidelines and recommendations, which in some countries are issued by the ministries of education, which, we hope, are also being implemented by this government, which now has the responsibility to act. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u144	For an intervention, Mrs Ana Mesquita has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u145	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese Communist Party welcomes the thousands of petitioners who request the adoption of measures regarding what is the weight of school backpacks. We recognize the relevance of the matter which has been brought to the Assembly of the Republic and it is, in fact, with pleasure, that we can give the note that we have all reached a consensus on this matter. The CFP, within the framework of the working group which was set up to deal with this issue, presented several proposals either in terms of entities to be heard or in terms of the preparation of the proposals to be incorporated into the draft resolution which was then submitted jointly by the various parties. Although, in the concrete context of the treatment of this petition, it was not or could not be possible to make an approach at this stage on fundamental issues affecting the weight of backpacks, such as, for example, the hourly load, the number of disciplines, finally a number of examples, this will certainly be a background reflection that will also have to be done in the Assembly of the Republic in the short or medium term. however, the initiative that has been possible in this context allows the Government to recommend a series of measures that can effectively respond more immediately to a concrete problem which is very, very meaningful. I would also like to say that the complaints that have been coming to the Assembly of the Republic, concerning this matter, convey a very often complicated picture for students in terms of vertebral and muscle pain, which are perpetuated over time, and even in cases where there is genetic predisposition, there may be a worsening of the problems already felt. It was therefore relevant and fair to take action, through initiatives, on this matter in the Assembly of the Republic. The CFP is available to continue to deepen the knowledge, debate, treatment and monitoring of those measures to be implemented in relation to the weight of school backpacks. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u146	Mrs Heloísa Apolónia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u147	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Green Party, I begin by welcoming the more than 48 000 subscribers to petition No 271 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and by saying that this number makes clear the significant set of citizens who have joined in order to ask the Assembly of the Republic for a concrete intervention in a problem they consider relevant and that it is the excessive weight of school backpacks that our children and our young people carry daily to school. The Greens are also associated with this concern. Moreover, when we presented draft law No 486 / XIII ( 2 ) at the Assembly of the Republic. a ), which had in mind the dematerialization of school textbooks and other educational resources, we argued with some environmental reasons, which cause us much concern and lead us to seek this solution of dematerialization of school textbooks, and also invoked concern about the excessive weight of school backpacks of our children and young people. And this bill, submitted by The Greens, which was finally approved by a majority in the Assembly of the Republic, resulted in Law No. 72 / 2017, which generalizes and encourages, therefore, the dematerialization of educational resources. The petitioners who present this petition to the Assembly of the Republic also find this part of the solution of dematerialization, but, curiously, they do something that is not found in all petitions and that is to bring the concern to the Assembly of the Republic, justify it and proceed immediately with some suggestions that they consider to be effective in resolving the problem. It was from these solutions and also from a number of other entities that have been heard, that, by working on such matters daily in the field, they have contributed to the Assembly of the Republic, that the parliamentary groups, discussing this matter, have found a consensus on a significant number of measures, which, if applied as a whole, will have a very important effectiveness in solving the problem that this petition brings to the Assembly of the Republic. I very quickly justify that the Greens had submitted autonomously draft resolution No 1087 / XIII ( 3 ). (a ) to drag on this petition, but as soon as they knew that the working group of the Education and Science Committee was about to complete its work, they eventually made some suggestions for amendment and made some contributions. That is to say, we would, of course, prefer to join in this consensus which the Assembly of the Republic has managed to find, because a draft resolution which comes unanimously to the Government will have more strength for an effective requirement to implement these recommendations in the very near future. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u148	For an intervention, Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u149	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We congratulate the petitioners for bringing to the Assembly of the Republic the discussion of this issue, which, being of great importance, deserves our reflection. I would like to commend all the parties for having succeeded in presenting a joint initiative and reaching a consensus. Although it is consensual that the weight of school backpacks should not exceed 10 % of the total body weight, the truth is that this does not always happen, as evidenced by several studies carried out, including a study conducted by DECO in 2003. According to this study, heavy 360 children and their backpacks, in 14 schools, it was concluded that 53% of these children carried backpacks with a load above that recommended by the World Health Organization. Recently, another study by the same entity, involving 174 children, concluded that 66% of these children carried more weight to their backs than the recommended one. This situation is worrying as children who regularly carry excessive weight are those who are more likely to develop bone and muscle deformations. Therefore, we should raise awareness among children, parents and schools about the need to monitor the weight of backpacks, informing them of the best ways of organizing and transporting school materials. For the NAP, it is important to ensure that schools have lockers for all students, avoiding having to carry all the room material in the room throughout the day, five days a week, during the school year, as well as to favour the existence of a fixed classroom per class, so as to reduce the travels in school with the backpack. We must also pursue a policy of dematerialization of manuals and other supporting materials, as well as analyse the possibility of using the lighter grammatical role in school textbooks, without having an increased cost in purchasing or harming their durability. We also consider it very relevant that the most suitable ergonomic conditions for school backpacks are assessed and studied, weighing a type-approval mechanism. For the NAP, it is essential that the government implements effective measures that contribute to a decrease in the load carried by children, preserving their health and ensuring their well-being.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u150	Mrs. Members, with this intervention we conclude the assessment of petition No 271 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) and draft resolution No 1088 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a). from the last item on our agenda is the review of the Annual Report of the DNA Profile Database Supervisory Board, which has no time allocated, so we will proceed to the voting period. But, first, I remember the ladies and gentlemen. Members who are running elections for external bodies in Room D. Maria. The polls will be open up to 15 minutes after the plenary, so that everyone can vote. I ask the Secretary, Mr Duarte Pacheco, to proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u151	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, Bill No. 645 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Determines the State's assumption of responsibility to compensate the heirs of fatal victims and serious injuries following fires in national territory in 2017 and establishes the procedure for determining and paying such compensation ( PSD ), which falls to 1. the Commission and draft resolution No 1089 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — by the appreciation of Dr. Francisco Zagalo Hospital, in Ovar ( PCP ), which falls to 9. the Commission. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u152	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, entering the voting period, we will proceed to the examination of the quorum of deliberation using the electronic system. The gentlemen. Members who, for any reason, cannot do so will have to signal to the Bureau so that the presence of the meeting is considered to be present. [[Pause.]] The electronic picture records 206 presences, to which are added 3 ( PS Nuno Sá and Paulo Trigo Pereira and CDS-PP Member João Pinho de Almeida ), making 209 Members, so we have quorum to proceed to the vote. Let's start with vote No 417 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Despite the death of Joaquim Calheiros da Silveira ( PS and PSD ), which will be read by Secretary Idália Salvador Serrão.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u153	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « At 17 days of October 2017, at 85 years of age, he died in Aveiro, Joaquim António Calheiros da Silveira. The news of Joaquim de Silveira's death leaves all the Democrats deeply shocked. Founder of the Socialist Party, the Portuguese Joaquim of Silveira will forever be responsible for the important role it has played in the organization of the Second Republican Congress and the Third Congress of the Democratic Opposition, in Aveiro, this ‘blue nesga of freedom’, to quote the happy expression of historian Luís Farinha, given at the commemorations of the fiftieth anniversary of the Republican Congress of the Aveiro district of 1957, which was then seen from the city of Aveiro, in a lovelessed country. Shortly after 25 April 1974, he also offered his civic contribution to the building of the democratic local power, integrating as a vowel the administrative commission of the City Council of Aveiro. A citizen who was constantly attentive to those who had less voice, Joaquim da Silveira is equally among the pioneers to whom the foundation of the Cooperative for the Education and Rehabilitation of Inadapted Children of Aveiro, the CERCIAV, the first gender institution to emerge in the Aveiro district, returned only one year on the April Revolution, and who has since contributed so much to the construction of a more inclusive and just community. Republican convinced, Dean of the Aveira lawyers, with Joaquim da Silveira probably dies one of the last representatives of a generation of oppositionists who honored Aveiro, where he lived, democracy and the country. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary, expresses its regret at the death of Joaquim da Silveira and directs its heartfelt condolences to the Socialist Party, his family and friends».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u154	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for this vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] The following is vote No 419 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of Ruth Escobar, presented by the PSD and subscribed by PS Members, who will be read by Mr Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u155	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « The actress and producer Ruth Escobar, natural of Porto, well known in Brazilian cultural, political and social media, died last Thursday, October 5, at 82 years of age in São Paulo, victim of prolonged disease. Maria Ruth dos Santos Escobar moved to Brazil in 1951, where he married the Brazilian playwright and philosopher Carlos Henrique Escobar and became one of the most prominent figures in the Brazilian theater, with a vast curriculum on the cultural level and a life dedicated to defending the rights of Brazilian women. In 1964, Ruth Escobar inaugurated a theatre with its name and in 1974 created the first International Theatre Festival of São Paulo, which allowed Brazil to bring a significant set of outstanding authors and performers from the world theatre panorama. After April 25, 1974, Ruth Escobar returned to Portugal to present Cars Sacramentals, a production on Calderón de la Barca, which had had a considerable emphasis on the Venice Biennale. in the 1980s, he moved away from the stage, having been elected a state deputy during two mandates, between 1983 and 1991, expanding the representation of women in political structures. It was also part of the movement of resistance to dictatorship, being arrested three times. She was one of the founders of the Front of Feminist Women of the State of São Paulo in the 1970s. He chaired the National Council for the Rights of Brazilian Women between 1985 and 1986 and represented Brazil for four years in the United Nations Committee on Monitoring and Follow-up to the Convention on the Elimination of Discrimination against Women. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, presents its deepest condolences to the family of Ruth Escobar, highlighting its role in Brazilian cultural life and in the defense of gender equality in Brazil ».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u156	We're going to vote on the vote you just read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We then vote No 420/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Despite the death of Commander Armenio Mendes, presented by the PSD and subscribed by PS Members, who will be read by Mr Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u157	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « last morning of October 13, died, 73 years old, in Santos, victim of prolonged disease, the Commander and Honorary Consul of Portugal, Armenio Mendes. Originating from Chão de Couce, Ansião, where he was born on August 2, 1944, Armenio Mendes arrived in Santos at the age of 18, having since begun an intense business activity. Some time later, he became involved in the civil construction sector, an area in which he achieved enormous success, translated into the construction of a large number of real estate enterprises, hotel establishments and commercial spaces, which allowed him to grow enormous respect with the state and municipal authorities of the region of Baisada Santista and the State of São Paulo. In 2008, taking into account its prestige, the Portuguese Government decided to appoint - the Honorary Consul of Portugal in Santos, being recognized as a prominent personality of the Portuguese community there resident and one of the great workers of the integration of Portuguese into Brazilian society and the approach between the two countries. Armenio Mendes had a relevant role in the civic plan in the life of the Portuguese community living in the region of Santos, leaving an important social, educational and cultural work with a strong impact on the life of all our compatriots who emigrated to this Brazilian region. Thus, the Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, presents its deepest condolences to the family of Commander Armenio Mendes, making this feeling extensive to the entire Portuguese community of Santos, highlighting its high contribution to the elevation of the name of Portugal in Brazil ».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u158	We shall proceed to the vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We turn to vote No 418/ XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Condemnation and regret for terrorist attacks in Mogadishu, Somalia, submitted by PS and PAN and signed by PSD Members, to be read by Secretary Sandra Pontedeira.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u159	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « It was with deep dismay that the Assembly of the Republic took note of the double attack in Mogadishu last Saturday, October 14. The attacks have claimed the lives of more than 300 people, in whom the most violent attack has been recorded since 11 September 2001, once again reaching the already very martyred capital of Somalia, where successive attacks since the beginning of 2017 have already caused death or serious injuries to more than 700 people. in the context of a conflict with many years and demonstrating the instability felt in the region, the dimension of tragedy and barbaria, as well as the deep disrespect for human lives and peaceful coexistence among communities that reveal, all call to promote the eradication of threats of this nature, with committed intervention by the international community and respect for the fundamental principles of international law. Thus, meeting in plenary session, the Assembly of the Republic condemns the barbaric terrorist act perpetrated in Mogadishu and reaffirms the condemnation of terrorism and Portugal's commitment to combat this threat, expressing its regret to the authorities and citizens of the Federal Republic of Somalia, to the families and friends of all the victims."
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u160	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall vote for the vote that has just been read. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the votes that we have just adopted, we will keep a minute of silence. [[The House kept, standing, a minute's silence.]] Mrs. Members, let us turn to vote No 421 / XIII ( 3. a ) — Condemning the barriers placed in the fight against slave labour in Brazil, presented by the PAN, which will be read by Secretary Antonio Carlos Monteiro.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u161	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the vote shall be as follows: « on October 16, 2017 the Brazilian government published a portal that introduced new rules and which has made it difficult to condemn and impute responsibilities to employers who use slave work in this country. The previous portal was thought of as a logic to facilitate the supervision and prosecution of employers, drinking concepts of the International Labour Organization ( ILO ) and the Brazilian Criminal Code and considering four elements for the assignment of slavery character: forced labor, degrading conditions, debt bondage and exhaustive journey. With this new version, it will be more difficult to denounce these crimes: in all these categories there will have to be a proven restriction of worker freedom; tax auditors will have less autonomy in inspections, being accompanied by police officers who will have to declare in writing the existence of flagrant crime; the publication of so-called ‘black list’ of companies and people who use slave work in Brazil is now dependent on the direct approval of the Minister holding the paste. The changes in the rules on slave labor arose in response to an old request from the Brazilian Congress Rural Bank. Once again, extractivist and productive interests are placed above all and the great leaders of intensive agriculture and mining are thus more free to exploit human and natural resources with the support of the government itself, returning decades in hard work to fight slavery all over the world. The Assembly of the Republic, meeting in plenary session, expresses its condemnation of this legislative amendment, calling on the Brazilian Government to return permanently to its decision'.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u162	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed to the vote on the vote just read out. [[Subject to the vote, votes against the PS and the CDS-PP were rejected, in favour of BE, the PCP, the Greens, the PAN and the Members of the PS Isabel Alves Moreira, Isabel Santos and Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from the PSD and the Members of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida and Pedro Mota Soares.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u163	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u164	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u165	Madam President, it is only to announce that I will deliver a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u166	Be registered. Mr Pedro Bacelar de Vasconcelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u167	Madam President, it is also to inform the Bureau that I will make a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u168	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u169	Madam President, it is also to announce that the CFP Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u170	Mrs. Deputy, you're registered. Mr Nuno Magalhães has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u171	Mr President, it is to inform that the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u172	Be registered. Mr Porfirio Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u173	Madam President, it is also to announce that I, Mrs Edite Estrela, Mr Jorge Lacão and Mrs Margarida Marques will present a declaration of vote individually.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u174	Be registered. Mrs. Members, we are voting in general on the proposal for a law No 97/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Defines the sanction scheme applicable to the development of collaborative financing activity. [[Having put to the vote, it was adopted with a vote in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstention from the PSD.]] Mrs. Members, this bill goes down to 6. the Commission. We shall generally vote on Bill No 98/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the arrangements for the allocation of securities for the use of the water public domain in relation to existing untitled situations. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, this bill goes down to 11. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u175	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u176	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u177	Madam President, it is to announce that the BE Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u178	Be registered. Mrs. Members, we shall generally vote on Bill No 96 / XIII ( 3 ). (a) — Amend the Code of Criminal Procedure by allowing the electronic notification of lawyers and informal defenders. [[The vote was taken unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, this bill goes down to 1. the Commission. We proceeded to the vote on an application submitted by the PSD, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Economics, Innovation and Public Works, without voting, for a period of 90 days, of Bill No 599 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strengthens the defence of competition and regulates compensation actions for infringement of the provisions of competition law ( Private Enforcement ) ( PSD ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on Bill No. 635 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates the order of physical therapists ( PS ).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u179	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u180	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u181	Madam President, I have asked for the floor to announce my impediment to the vote on the establishment of the order of physiotherapists, since my office has had professional intervention on various issues related to the association.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u182	Madam Member, I greet you for making that record. We shall continue with the general vote on Bill No 635/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates the order of physical therapists ( PS ). [[The vote was put to the vote and voted in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP and the PAN, votes against the PSD and PS Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from BE, the PCP and the Greens.]] Mrs. Members, this bill goes down to 10. the Commission. We now proceed to the general vote on Bill No 636 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates the order of health technicians and approves their status ( PS ). [[The vote was put to the vote, with votes against the PSD and PS Member Paulo Trigo Pereira, votes in favour of the PS and the PAN and with abstentions from BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u183	I call on you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u184	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u185	Madam President, it is in order to inform the Bureau that I shall present a declaration of vote on this subject individually.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u186	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u187	Madam President, it is to inform you that, in relation to the three draft laws, I have already made a very well-founded statement of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u188	Thank you very much, Mr President. There is no need to adjective. Mrs Maria das Mercês Borges has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u189	Madam President, it is to inform that I and Members Margarida Mano, Clara Marques Mendes, Carla Barros, Susana Lamas and Helga Correia and Mrs. Mr Joel Sá, Pedro Pimpão and Bruno Vitorino will present a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u190	You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mr Duarte Pacheco also tells me that he will present a statement of vote on draft laws on the creation of the order of physiotherapists. Mrs. Members, we are now going to vote, in general, on Bill No 642 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creation of the order of physical therapists ( CDS-PP ). [[The vote was put to the vote and voted in favour of the PS, the CDS-PP and the PAN, votes against the PSDP and PS Paulo Trigo Pereira and abstentions from BE, the PCP, The Greens and PS Vitalino Canas.]] Mrs. Members, this bill goes down to 10. the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u191	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u192	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u193	Madam President, it is to announce that I will present a statement of vote on the three previous votes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u194	Be registered, Mr. Deputy. Mrs Maria das Mercês Borges has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u195	Mr President, it is to be announced that for the purposes of the declaration of vote on the drafts of lein.o 642 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), 636 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) and 635 / XIII ( 3. ( a) in addition to the colleagues I have already mentioned, I would like to add Mr Mauricio Marques.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u196	To which Mr Duarte Pacheco joins. You're registered, Mrs. Deputy. Mrs. Members, we have five requests submitted by BE, PAN, Os Verdes, PS, and CDS-PP, respectively, asking for the resignation of the Committee on Labour and Social Security, without a vote and for a period of 90 days, of the projects of lein. 552 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Consecrates the duty of professional disconnection and reinforces the monitoring of working hours, making the tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( BE), 640 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009, conferring the right of the worker to professional disconnection ( NAP) ( the initial text was replaced at the author's request ), 643/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Qualifies as a very serious counter-ordination the violation of the rest period ( 10th amendment to the Labour Code approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009 ) ( The Greens) and 644 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The third amendment to the Labour Code strengthens the worker's right to rest ( PS ) and draft resolution No 1086 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government initiate a debate at the social level with a view to including the right to disconnect either in the Labour Code or in the collective labour regulation instruments ( CDS-PP ). Let's vote them in block. [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we turn to draft resolution No 1085/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to ensure effective compliance with working hours and the reconciliation of work with family life ( CFP ). The PSD asked for the autonomous vote in point 1, what we will do, and then the rest. Thus, point 1 is in the vote. [[The vote was taken and voted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CDS-PP, the PCP, the Greens and the PAN and votes against the PSD.]] Let us now vote points 2 to 6 of draft resolution No 1085 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, if there are no objections, we shall proceed to the joint vote of two requests submitted by the CDS-PP and the PCP respectively, requesting the discharge to the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization, without voting and for a period of 45 days, of the projects of lein.o 571 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter to Law No 151 / 2015 of 11 September ( Budget Framework Act ) ( CDS-PP ) and 638 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Ensures the public disclosure of the use of captives in the budgets of entities which integrate the direct and indirect administration of the State ( first amendment to Law No 151 / 2015 of 11 September - Budget Framework Act ) ( CFP ). [[After the vote, they were adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we proceed to the general vote on Bill No 539 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Extends the scope of labelling rules for genetically modified foods ( The Greens ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP and abstentions by PS Deputies Carla Sousa and Jamila Madeira.]] Mrs. Members, we will generally vote on Bill No 639 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Making the labelling and supervision rules concerning the presence of genetically modified organisms more transparent by ensuring consumer access to information ( NAP ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP and abstentions by PS Deputies Carla Sousa and Jamila Madeira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u197	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u198	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u199	Madam President, it is to announce that I will present, on these two bills now voted, a declaration of vote on a personal basis.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u200	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. We shall proceed to the general vote on Bill No 641/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Right to information to consumers on genetically modified foods ( GMOs) ( second amendment to Decree-Law No 72 / 2003 of 10 April 2003 ) ( BE ). [[Subject to the vote, votes against PSD, PS and CDS-PP were rejected, votes against BE, the CFP, The Greens and the NAP and abstentions by PS Deputies Carla Sousa and Jamila Madeira.]] We now turn to the vote on draft resolution No 1088 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures aimed at reducing the weight of school backpacks ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and NAP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u201	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u202	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u203	Madam President, it is to announce that the CDS board will deliver a statement of vote on this draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u204	Mrs. Deputy, you're registered. We moved on to draft resolution No 991 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to minimize losses of unskilled GHG and BANIF ( BE ), for which the CDS requested the autonomous vote of points 1 and 2. We shall therefore begin by voting on point 1 of the draft resolution. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We shall proceed to the vote on point 2 of the same motion for a resolution. [[When put to the vote, the vote was adopted in favour of the PS, the BE, the CFP, the Greens and the NAP and the abstentions of the PSD and the CDS-PP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u205	Madam President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u206	Sir, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u207	Mr President, it is only to note that a statement of vote on this draft resolution will be submitted by the CFP Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u208	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. Mr Cristóvão Crespo has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u209	Madam President, it is in order to announce to the House that, with regard to this draft resolution, the PSD Parliamentary Group will present a declaration of vote.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u210	Mr. Deputy, it's registered. Mrs Rubina Berardo has the floor now.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u211	Mr President, it is to announce that the PSD Members elected by Madeira's electoral circle will present a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u212	Mrs. Deputy, you're registered. Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u213	Madam President, it is also to announce that the CDS Parliamentary Group will present a statement of vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u214	Mrs. Deputy, you're registered. Mrs. Members, we shall now proceed to the vote on draft resolution No 1037 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends measures to extend the minimum service account to bank clients ( BE) ( text and initial title were replaced at the author's request ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] We now turn to the vote on draft resolution No 972 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends the assumption of a timetable for the conclusion of the Lower Mondego hydro-agricultural work ( CFP ). [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Members, we shall vote on the opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which will be read by Mr Duarte Pacheco.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u215	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the request of Judge 3, the Lisbon Labour Court, the Court of Justice of the Comarca de Lisboa — Case No. 9180 / 17.5T8LSB —, the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees decided to issue an opinion in order to authorize Members of the CCP Paulo Sá, João Ramos, Jorge Machado and Carla Cruz to intervene in the proceedings within the framework of the reference car.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-20.u216	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's vote. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that there are elections for external bodies in Sala D. Maria and that the polls will be open for another 15 minutes. The next plenary meeting will take place on Tuesday, 24 October, at 3 p.m., having as a unique point on the agenda the discussion of the motion of censure No 1 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — due to government failures in the 2017 tragic fires ( CDS-PP ), which will be voted on at the end of the debate. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the sitting is closed, I wish everyone and everyone a good weekend. [[It was 13 hours and 7 minutes.]]
