ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 4 minutes.]] The gentlemen. Authorities can open the galleries, please. Before we start the agenda, I'll give the floor to Mr. Secretary to take care of the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u2	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, entered the Bureau, and were admitted, Bill No. 436 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amend the Civil Code by eliminating discrimination between men and women in matters of an international term ( BE ), which falls to 1. the Commission and draft resolution No 716 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Programme, sensitize and disbursate to combat domestic violence ( The Greens ), which also falls to 1. the Commission. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u3	Mrs. Members, our agenda has as its only point the interpellation No 9/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Banking supervision ( CDS-PP ). To open the debate on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u4	Mr President, Mr Minister for Finance, Mr Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Mr Secretary of State for Treasury, Mrs and Mrs. Members: Bank issues and banking supervision have jumped to Portuguese priorities as we have been watching successive interventions and problems in different Portuguese banks. It began with the nationalization of BPN, then it was the collapse of the BPP and the problems in the BCP, later it was the resolution of BES and more recently it occurred with the sale of BANIF to Santander and the recapitalization of the General Deposit Box. And if, in the case of BES, as the Prime Minister acknowledges today, the account will be borne by the financial system, already in the case of BANIF it was direct and ready for taxpayers. The CDS has always had a critical position with regard to supervision. This has always been the case, and already in our last Congress, the party president elected as one of the country's priorities, in the financial sector, the revision of regulation and supervision by independent entities, and, I stress, independent.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u6	in this regard, the government has multiplied in interventions, many contradictions between itself and almost all of them do much more to destabilize the financial system than to improve supervision. More: the government, and above all the parties that support it, have tried to transform what can and must be a serene discussion of solutions into a mere controversy of names. After the nomination novel for the General Deposit Box, all we do not need is to watch the nomination leaflet for the Banco de Portugal. [[CDS-PP applause.]] One thing is clear: what we have seen in recent days, and which most seems to be an ongoing process of partisanization of the Banco de Portugal, will have a firm and resolute opposition on the part of the CDS. This firm opposition calls on the Government today and brings our proposals to the table, which, if it had no other merit, has at least to have either the Government or the Banco de Portugal bring forward proposals instead of discussing names.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u7	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u8	So let's go to the proposals. The first proposal we are presenting today is an amendment to the form of appointment of independent administrative entities and can be summed up in a single sentence: the Government proposes, the Assembly listens and the President of the Republic appoints. The intervention of three different sovereignty bodies ensures independent regulators, consensual solutions and effective bodies. It is a solution that the CDS has been defending for almost 10 years and today, although many amendments have already been introduced, in particular through a framework law, it continues to make all the sense and therefore we want to apply it to the Competition Authority and the three financial supervisors. We understand that it is a proposal that can raise some questions, especially constitutionally, but we think it is precisely now, when we are in the initial part of a legislature, which makes all the sense that, with time and with a sense of state, all parties analyse and weigh on it. And, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is one thing that seems obvious: if we all agree that this is the best way to name these regulators, then, of course, it will be possible to pass this bill. [[CDS-PP applause.]] The second draft law that we will deliver today will give legislative consecration to a solution to the problem, almost unanimously identified but always delayed, of the inadequacy of the corporate governance models of several financial institutions that are at the root of many of the problems of the banks and in a completely opaque way as they have granted credit over the past decade. We want to make it clear that supervision should focus on the effective functioning of the banking management structures and not just on their formal existence. In other words, it is not enough to have organs that work very well in a PowerPoint to see, but that then, in practice, work completely differently or simply do not work. [[CDS-PP applause.]] As it does not make sense that supervision is summed up in what can almost be described as « epistollary supervision», with very elaborate letters and trades exchanged on the part, in which everyone tries to deresponsibility if something goes wrong, but nothing is done when it is still going in time to avoid the disaster. In other words, it is not enough to supervise the rules, it is necessary to supervise their compliance. in the CDS we always criticized this type of supervision, and so did we in the case of BES, but let it be clear that we see very well the difference between what happened with BES and the time when the Banco de Portugal, purely and simply, did not act, nothing saw and did not act, having, for example, completely passed by all the problems of BPN. We will never accept in this matter a return to the past, to the past of the supervision of Vítor Constance. Much of what we are still having to do is precisely correct the mistakes of this Vítor Constance supervisory. It is enough to see that the problem credits or large crates have almost all their origin in this period of time. This is the supervision that we have already had by the hands of the Socialist Party and that the Left Block seems to want today to lend its arm, through the appointment of its former President Francisco Louçã, and it is a supervision whose consequences we still suffer and that we will never tolerate. [[CDS-PP applause.]] We also included in this project the reduction of the legal limit for the granting of direct or indirect financing to qualified shareholders from the current 10 % of own funds to 2 %. The third project we bring here is the obvious consequence of a culture of demand and transparency that we want throughout the financial sector. The Banco de Portugal must be the first to set the example, so we propose that the leading positions of Banco de Portugal, i.e. the department directors, be chosen in a transparent manner and with a competition. If we want better supervision, the supervisor has to choose the best ones. The recent case of the hiring, or, rather, of the hiring of the Director of the Department of Public Oversight...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u9	Durão Barroso's son is on his way too!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u10	... cannot only raise questions about conflicts of interests or rotating doors; we need to know which competences have been analyzed, which curricula have been examined and which candidates have been excluded or chosen.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u11	Sérgio Monteiro is also there!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u12	Again, here, transparency and independence are fundamental criteria. Today we deliver three more bills to remove consequences of resolutions adopted here in Parliament in 2015 and which do not yet have legislative consecration: this is the case of Resolution No 68 / 2015, which made a set of recommendations regarding the marketing of financial products at risk. We will also deliver another project not only so that, in relation to these financial products, there is segregation of physical spaces, but also differences in people; it must become prohibited that account managers, in whom people trust to deal with their deposits, can also market these products. We will also deliver a bill, sealing the establishment of any variable incentive or remuneration related to aggressive marketing practices of this type of product. in the same way that we adopted here Resolution No. 72 / 2015, to give real powers to the National Council of Financial Supervisors, today we will deliver a bill that makes its meetings mandatory when the most important moments for the stability of the system are concerned, a project that makes its presidency rotate, placing on equal footing the various supervisors who are part of it and creating an executive secretariat. With regard also to the National Committee for Financial Stability, we will establish new mechanisms to enable this body to become effective. Finally, and no less important, we do not forget the role that audit bodies have played in financial institutions or, on the other hand, the role they have not played and which they should have played. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u13	In 2015, we adopted legislation which substantially amended its legal framework, with its supervision being carried out by the Securities Market Commission ( CMM ). It is a new regime, which will take time to bear fruit, but that is no excuse for not dealing with what is urgent. Thus, we will present a bill that empowers the MVC to effectively oversee conflicts of interest between audit and consulting activities exercised by the same entity or companies in relation to the group. The examples are very simple: does it make any sense for a company, in its audit suits the accounts of a bank, evaluates its misappropriate credit, orders the registration of inequalities related to that credit and then, with consulting suits, gives advice to those interested in buying precisely that misappropriated credit? Is there not a conflict of interest between providing services at the same time to sellers and possible buyers of the same asset?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u14	Madam Member, you may continue to use the word, but from now on the time you use will be discounted in the total debate time allocated to the CDS-PP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u15	Of course, Mr. President. A second example relates to the establishment of rules for the verification of incompatibilities between consulting and audit provided by the same companies to the same entities. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS brought the matter to Parliament, presented its proposals and this is the time for, after more than a year of creating problems, the government finally presented its solutions. Here we are for that. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u16	In order to intervene, too, at the stage of the debate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I now give the floor to the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The last decade has been marked by a global financial crisis. This crisis has pressured the financial markets, in particular the interest rates and sovereign debts, and also the financial institutions. The experience of the last decade of some of the Portuguese financial institutions has caused direct and indirect damage to the national economy, to public finances and, above all, to many consumers of financial products and services. The cases in Portugal highlighted several failures in financial regulation and supervision, weakening the credibility and reputation of the national authorities entrusted with the relevant regulatory and supervisory functions. These failures and shortcomings have been revealed in different aspects of the financial regulation system, either in the internal functioning of these institutions, in their governance, in their methods or in their instruments, or in the coherence of the system and in the relationship between the different institutions that compose it. The internal and external linkage with the common objectives of financial stability, consumer protection of financial products and protection of taxpayers has not always been achieved with a high success rate. There is no doubt about this: the Government believes that effective regulation and supervision is the answer to the risks of the financial system; the Government believes that effective regulation and supervision is the instrument that best ensures financial stability. It is with this certainty that the Government's Programme establishes the commitment to invest in strengthening the effectiveness of regulation and supervision and is with this assurance that the Ministry of Finance is working to strengthen the effectiveness of regulation and supervision. Strengthening the effectiveness of supervision should be measured by increasing the control intensity, adopting a more proactive and preventive attitude and by faster and more determined intervention capacity. in the financial area, the early detection of problems is crucial to the success rate of available solutions. Let us not deceive ourselves: inaction or denial states are causing significant losses in the financial sector. [[P.S.'s applause.]] in the financial sector there is no chance, there is only uncertainty. Strengthening the effectiveness of regulation should be measured by the ability to eliminate existing overlaps and regulatory gaps, which make it difficult for supervisory authorities to act and place unprotected consumers in relation to unregulated or insufficiently regulated products and services. The effectiveness of regulation should also be measured by protecting its independence from the regulators — this is the true and only indicator of independence that we should speak of: independence in relation to those who are the object of its decisions, the ability to combat the relationships of promiscuity and interdependence of financial institutions and people who occupy its organs and who aggravate the prudential risk factors. Any commitment to strengthening the effectiveness of regulation and supervision shall be made to ensure consumer rights and their confidence in the products, services and financial institutions to which they relate. And this strengthening of the effectiveness of financial regulation and supervision should be done without creating an exaggerated regulatory environment, centered on excessive bureaucratic requirements, creating disproportionate context costs. in the context of the globalisation of financial services, the strengthening of regulation and financial supervision must not prejudice the competitiveness of national financial institutions, which, secondly, would more precisely harm the Portuguese consumers themselves. The global financial crisis and the evolution in the financial system, characterized by the globalization of activities, the complexity of relations between institutions, the computerization of transactions and the sophistication of financial products and services, have justified an intense regulatory activity worldwide. The development of European regulations extended regulation to new practices and products, seeking to monitor the rapid evolution of the financial system, and extended successively the supervisory powers and powers of the national supervisory authorities. This is an example of the new rules on matters such as restructuring and banking resolution, macro prudential supervision, investor protection and the functioning of financial markets. However, these new tasks and competences were added, in overlapping layers, to the functions already performed by the existing national authorities, created in a sectorial logic, without having been able to make a comprehensive and complete reflection on the coherence and adequacy of the supervisory structure to the new realities that were being sought to regulate. In many countries, the global financial crisis and the developments in the financial system and the Community regulations that followed justify reflections and more or less profound changes in existing financial supervision models, in addition to the evolution of the European financial supervision system itself. Also in Portugal, in 2009 there was this reflection when the government of then led to the public consultation a reform project of the national supervisory model that proposes the evolution of the tripartite model of sectorial specialization, which still exists today, for a dualist model, of functional specialization. The subsequent cases in our financial system force us to question the effectiveness of the supervisory system again. Taking good note of the assessment made to the current financial supervision system, among others, in the report of the Parliamentary Commission of Inquiry into the Banco Espírito Santo process, the Government acknowledged the need to introduce improvements that lead to a more effective model. The Government has not chosen the most comfortable path and has not ignored the need to reorganise the regulatory and financial supervision functions. at the end of January, the government commissioned Dr. Carlos Tavares to coordinate a working group with the task of evaluating the current model and proposing the competent reform. The working group has already presented the draft public consultation document containing reform lines, which is under consideration by the Government. On the reform, having not lost the question of the conflict of interests between behavioural supervision and microprudential supervision functions, the macroprudential dimension has recently been added. We must weigh the costs of any change in the institutional architecture of financial supervision, but once again we must realize that inaction to a system with disabilities will not solve them. It should also be borne in mind that, since the transposition of the Financial Instrument Markets Directive ( DMIF ), there is already a significant integration of behavioural supervision in the CMM ( Securities Market Commission ). Today, reflection cannot be placed solely on conflicts of interest between behavioral and microprudential supervision. The legitimate relevance given by European regulation to systemic risk analysis and prevention, as well as the creation of the banking restructuring and resolution regime, also leads to the need to balance the best way of allocating macroprudential and resolution supervisory functions, maximizing their effectiveness and minimizing conflicts of interest with micro prudential supervision. It is also necessary to address the coordination and exchange of information between supervisory authorities, and today it is consensual to introduce an institutional mechanism for effective and binding coordination between supervisory authorities that is more effective than the current National Council of Financial Supervisors ( CSF ).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u18	Minister, you've outlived your time. It can continue, but the time now being used will be discounted during the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. There is therefore a need for strengthened coordination to combine the autonomy of the functions and the specialization of each sector with a dedicated entity for an overall vision of the financial system ensuring coherent and concerted action on each supervised institution. For this purpose the establishment of an entity with the task of ensuring the binding exchange of information and coordination of the supervisory authorities will be proposed, replacing the National Council of Financial Supervisors and the National Council of Financial Stability. This new entity, with the ultimate responsibility for financial stability, should have the functions of macro prudential authority and national resolution authority. This entity should be endowed with legal personality and independence status. in its administration, the sectoral supervisory authorities will participate, but will be directed by independent personalities, thus ensuring at the same time the full participation and accountability of all supervisory authorities in systemic risk prevention matters, but also being attributed to this entity the analytical and technical ability to supervise the system as a whole. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the Government has been working, with commitment and in depth, on a proposal for the reform of the financial supervision model. The proposal, which will be known shortly, should provide the system of supervision of greater rationality, greater effectiveness, with less overlaps and redundancy and greater capacity of the supervisory authorities. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u20	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going to enter the debate stage, which begins with the formulation of questions to Mrs Cecilia Meireles and Minister Mário Centeno. To make requests for clarification to Mrs Cecilia Meireles, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u21	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, firstly, I would like to thank the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group for bringing this issue to debate. It is undoubtedly a matter of relevance, which concerns us all, particularly when, in recent years, Portugal has experienced moments of great distress, with a great cost for taxpayers but also for many investors, a moment of great difficulty for the Portuguese banking and financial system. That is why this is a very important issue and which must be discussed with great transparency but at the same time clearly saying what has happened and what we have to do for the future. Mrs Cecilia Meireles, I do not resist parliamentary interference. Allow me to tell you that whoever heard the CDS today would have to ask you a question: Mrs. Member, on which planet have you lived in the last four years?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u22	No, no! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u23	There are two aspects that are clear. First: some of the proposals that the CDS will bring will certainly deserve the support of the generality of the parliamentary groups, but let me say that some of the proposals it has made recently, from that forum, are proposals framed in directives transposed by the Government that you were supporting until November 2015. And in relation to some of the conflicts of interest that you have, either in the case of the auditors or, in the case of consultants, were measures introduced into national law by the Government which you supported and, of course, had your vote in favour. There is still much to be done in this framework, certainly, but it would not have been wrong for him to say here that « what the Government that supported has done was clearly insufficient». Secondly, the honourable Member has supported a government which has essentially taken two measures in the architecture of the system. One measure was to establish that the Banco de Portugal was the macroprudential supervisor — that is a decision of the Government which you supported. A second measure was that this Government also incorporated the resolution authority and the Resolution Fund within the framework of the Banco de Portugal. Madam Member, the question is obvious: are we not in a context of conflict of interest? Was it not this transposition into the Portuguese legal system, contrary to what happened in many other legal systems throughout this European Union, a transposition which itself caused other conflicts of interest that we have to resolve today? Finally, I wanted to tell you that as far as BES and BANIF were concerned, it had been a meaculpa, because what happened with BES and BANIF was a push forward of a solution that ended up not having existed but could have existed and been more effective, not only if the Banco de Portugal had acted, but if the Portuguese Government, diligently, and particularly in BNIF, where it was a shareholder, had acted and had solved a problem that we all knew, all of us, we knew that it was intensified as the Government that you were supporting more, and more, and more austerity. However, more austerity, more problems in the financial system and, in this respect, let me tell you, Mrs Member, that this bench, this party has always opposed this option of more austerity with fragility of the banking system and the financial system. So he left these questions to him: what measures? Does it support the exit of the resolution authority and the Banco de Portugal Spectrum Resolution Fund or not? Does it or does it not support macro-prudential supervision coming out of the Banco de Portugal's sphere of action? Does it or does it not support the strengthening of CMM's behavioral supervisory powers? These are three central aspects of the supervisory model system and need a response, of course, not only from the CDS, but also from the CDS. Finally, Mrs Deputy, I wanted to tell you that I did not expect your intervention to begin by talking about nominations and, at the same time speaking about nominations and the naming model, the only name I said of the rostrum was that of Vítor Constance. I was hoping for more courage and I could go further. He also said that of Francisco Louçã, I know, but he was never able to say any other name other than that of Vítor Constáncio and also, in this case, that of Francisco Louçã. He's sick. I could be more courageous and also say other names. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u24	Mrs. Members, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has informed the Bureau that she will answer to each Member individually. So you will answer Mr Eurico Brillante Dias from now on. You have the floor, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u25	Mr President, Mr Eurico Brillante Dias, thank you for the questions you have asked me. I wanted to start by telling you that nothing has to thank you, because the subject has to be dealt with and the CDS is here for that.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u26	Now? Oh, my God! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u27	As for names, Mr. Member, I will tell you with all the letters that, with regard to the supervision of Carlos Costa, when it was necessary to speak and when it was necessary to talk about BES and be critical of what went wrong, the CDS was here,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u28	Ah!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u29	... and if you didn't hear it was because at the time you didn't follow these jobs, because that happened. There's no problem with that! [[CDS-PP applause.]] But since you want to hear about names, I also tell you that I know very well to see the difference between what was and is the supervision of Carlos Costa and the disaster that the supervision of Vítor Constáncio...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u30	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u31	... provoked in the Portuguese financial system. [[CDS-PP applause.]] And since he wants to talk about names and his party named Elisa Ferreira to the supervisory body, to the Banco de Portugal,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u32	You've got names! Do you want names? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u33	... it was time to start presenting results. In addition to the appointment of department directors, it was time to have some results to present.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u34	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u35	If you want to talk about names, we have no problem with that, but I think we can have a little more discussion on this subject. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u36	I should've started out there!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u37	Secondly, he asked a series of questions about the integration or exit of the Banco de Portugal Resolution Fund and organic architecture. Mr President, the CDS is willing to discuss all the models and we will certainly have time to discuss them, but one thing I say to you is that we are not prepared to discuss any changes in architecture that lead to the fact that in practice and in essence things are going to work exactly the same way. It is that the most difficult thing in supervision is not to create a model that, from the point of view of organic or architecture, is better, the most difficult thing is that it happens to work differently. And those who watched almost daily, over all these years, and they've been there for almost 10 years, in practice of what supervision is, realize the truth of what I said a short time ago from the rostrum. Often, there are letters, there are offices, there are alerts, there are thousands of documents and then, in practice, nothing is done. from this point of view, we can change the organic ten times, but if we don't go to the center of the problem nothing will change.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u38	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u39	Thirdly, on the question you asked me about the directives and the transposition of directives, Mr President. Members may continue to oppose the past. as more than one year of government has passed, it becomes increasingly awkward, but they continue to oppose the past.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u40	And speak of Vítor Constâncio! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u41	I would like to stress the following: Indeed, transpositions of directives on this matter were made, and they were made in 2015. But I would like to draw your attention to the fact that many of these conflicts of interest already exist, already planned, already having an order and a code of ethics. What the supervisor is not doing is acting, and we want him to be clear, first, that he has powers to act and then he has to act. That's the difference! [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u42	To request clarification, you now have the floor of Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u43	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, I have with me a draft resolution submitted by the PSD and the CDS following the case of BES, and in it are cited conclusions of the Committee of Inquiry : « The National Supervisors Council has not been informed about the resolution of BES ; » « The Banco de Portugal took note of the change in the liability of ESI, but this was not shared with the other supervisors nor led to the withdrawal of Ricardo Salgado ; » « The Banco de Portugal was in possession of relevant facts on 30 November which did not communicate to the other supervisors nor led to intervention on the market and on the products sold ; » « The Banco de Portugal did not send the KPMG preliminary report of January 2014 on the situation of ESI ; » « The suitability of GES managers was never discussed together ; » « The Banco de Portugal did not inform any regulator on the resolution of BES, which made the Commission on the Securities Market could not have suspended the transaction of shares. « This is a small list of Banco de Portugal's failures in the case of intervention in BES and in the case of failure of BES. Do not keep on seeking. ” Mrs Deputy, this is a succession of serious failures of the Governor of the Banco de Portugal in the case of BES and reveals two problems: on the one hand, it reveals an incapacitated governor and, on the other hand, it reveals an inadequate model. And, Mrs. Member, partisanization is to rename and maintain a Governor incapacitated in front of the Banco de Portugal, because he favours the Government. [[Congratulations from BE.]] That's bias, that's not defending the system, that's damaging the system. Mrs Deputy, besides hiding the fact that she has renamed Carlos Costa, comes here to try to defend him, using the pre-history of the banking system. Here are some amendments, some of which we will follow with certainty, but not at the heart of the problem, which are the powers of Banco de Portugal. So we are still waiting for the debate that the CDS will make about supervision and its real willingness to solve the problem of banking supervision in Portugal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u44	In reply, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u45	Mr President, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, first of all, I would like to thank you for your questions. With regard to what were the failures and supervisory problems of BES, who would hear it I would imagine that I had come here today to give some news and that, at the time, I was not the first to ask for them, and to ask the Governor himself. It is well remembered that the honourable Member has attended! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u46	And then he renamed him!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u47	Sharing? Oh, my God! The honourable Member says that I support the Governor of the Banco de Portugal, whom I have been critical of because of his support? Oh, my God! Mrs Deputy, who was appointed to advisory bodies of the Banco de Portugal, was not the former leader of my party, he was the former leader of yours. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u48	Well, I think there's a lack of business!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u49	Therefore, partisanship, Mrs Deputy, is a criticism that you will have to make at the internal meetings of your parliamentary group. What I say to you is this: the honourable Member may call it a pre-history, but every time she analyzes the poorly stopped credit of the Portuguese banks, she will find there the mandate of Vítor Constance. I believe it is now convenient for you, after this appointment of Francisco Louçã, to do the whitening of what calls prehistory, but we do not forget the responsibilities and we will never forget the past. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u50	Mr António Leitão Amaro has the floor to request clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u51	Mr President, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, banking supervision must be discussed and can be improved, which cannot be done as a pretext for attacking the independence of institutions and regulators.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u52	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u53	... nor take this as an opportunity to try to rewrite the story of what happened and is happening in the Portuguese financial system, as the Government and the left parties have not stopped trying to do. The quality and independence of banking supervision are essential for a small country like Portugal, which needs to separate banking risk from sovereign risk, ensure system stability, give depositors confidence, finance companies but also prevent banks and credit from becoming political instruments or party strategies. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u54	If it is for a serious and constructive discussion that improves financial supervision, the PSD is here, as it was between 2012 and 2015, with the CDS, with more than a dozen laws that improved supervision. From the supervisor's powers to the rights of clients, to the increase of information, to the limitation of conflicts of interest, to the protection of depositors and the requirement of shareholders,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u55	It went very well! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u56	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u57	That was all the transposition of directives they had to do!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u58	... but also to integrate Portugal into the banking union, which alerted even more to the distribution of supervisory responsibilities. Between 2012 and 2015, there was an enormous advance in the models of the supervisory rules to which the Portuguese banks are subject. And it's so important that we understand this! Most of the criticisms and problems that are still being brought here refer to the results of a model that is outdated, which has been profoundly altered and which is not what is in force. Today, we have a new, different model, integrated between Europe and national authorities. It is a better model, but it can be improved and should have stability to be tested. however, whatever model one seeks to find, none of them, as we all know, will guarantee zero errors, zero failures, either from supervision, or from economic agents.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u59	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u60	The PSD, as a reformist party, does not want and does not defend the status quo and therefore we take this opportunity to join in the proposals for strengthening and improving supervision, but saying that any reforms have to guarantee three essential premises, the first of which, at risk today, is the preservation and strengthening of the independence of institutions and supervision. This is essential in order to avoid the capture of the financial system by destructive practices we have seen in the past and not to allow banks to be means of political influence, which have been and we do not want them to be again.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u61	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u62	Secondly, the amendments cannot allow a fragmentation of the still limited installed capacity and critical mass in national financial regulators. Finally, these changes cannot cause such high transition costs that disrupt the stabilization of the financial system, which has been largely done but is still being completed. There are several measures to be taken, as soon as the banking union is completed...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u63	Of course!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u64	... with the creation of the common deposit guarantee system and the operationalization of the single resolution fund. And the Left Government, which promised a strong voice in Europe, simply dropped the subject. Since when doesn't the banking union advance? Oh, my God! Coincidence: since the end of 2015. But at the internal level it is also possible and it must be considered the concentration of behavioral supervision, i.e. of the relationship of banks with customers, in only one entity, possibly CMVM, ensuring the empowerment of microprudential supervision. On the other hand, as far as the resolution is concerned, we understand, understand and support the need to separate the executive functions of managing and selling assets and the transitional bank, but we have the greatest reservations about the empowerment of the resolution power.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u65	It's in the directive!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u66	Finally, it is important to strengthen the sharing of information and coordination of the actions and decisions of the various supervisors, to strengthen the role of the national coordination structure with its own resources, own team and own functions, to control the system of incentives of bank managers, to further limit conflicts of interest, in particular in the financing relations with related parties, non-executive managers and audit members. But, Mr. President, Mr. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Cecilia Meireles, while we are available and with contributions to improve supervision, we do not accept this debate as a way to attack institutions and the independence of institutions. I'd like you to talk to me about it, Mrs. Deputies. He is not concerned when he sees the government, in a game in which he exorbits his powers in the appointment of members of an Administrative Board,... [[Mr. P. João Galamba's laughs.]] ... powers that are for approval of proposed names, seeking to swarm the supervisor of party allies? Oh, my God! Does it not concern you when you see the Governor having to come publicly and repeatedly cry for independence and the President of the Republic having to take part in meetings that, as we know — the Minister also knows — when they happen because the case is serious? Oh, my God! When there are meetings with the President of the Republic, something goes very wrong! Mr. Minister knows! Don't you worry when you see your president, the leader of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group – does anyone imagine he's not coordinated with the Prime Minister? — to attack the Banco de Portugal, its Governor, as they do in fact with all that are independent institutions that do not align with your propaganda, such as the Council of Public Finance? Oh, my God! [[Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u67	There is a practice of intolerance of «the State I am, the Socialist Party », and now also, bourgeoisly, the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u68	What about the Constitutional Court? Oh, my God! Have you forgotten the exceptions, the elimination proposals? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u69	Madam Member, do you agree or not that, when we can change and improve financial supervision, we cannot accept this attempt to violate, attack, condition the fundamental independence of the institutions and supervisors? We are concerned and here we will be both to improve supervision and to attack this unacceptable behaviour of those who want to question the independence of the institutions. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u70	In reply, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u71	Mr President, Mr António Leitão Amaro, I understand your concerns. The concern of the CDS with supervision is ancient, as well as our critical spirit. In fact, since the new president was elected, at that same convention we said that we would make supervision one of our priorities. This explanation was marked precisely for this, and comes at a good time, because it comes at a time when, curiously, many were trying to transform what must be a discussion of ideas into a pure discussion of names,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u72	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u73	...and what the name discussion may have been worse. Mr President, one thing is to criticise supervision, another thing, completely different, is to want to condition, want to pressure and want to question the independence of the supervisor and for that, Mr. Only in this debate have we had extraordinary examples even with accusations of bias towards the current Governor Carlos Costa. Now, as I know, the current Governor was originally appointed by the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u74	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u75	And that's good for you!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u76	It remains extraordinary that Mrs Mariana Mortágua, who has seen her ex-president appointed,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u77	So what? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u78	... now accuse the CDS of bias towards a person who was originally appointed by the Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u79	You have also supported the President of the Republic and now that is what you see!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u80	It's a little weird.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u81	It's nothing strange!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u82	It's a little weird, let's agree.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u83	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u84	And it is also very strange what has happened throughout the entire week with regard to the Council of Public Finance. [[PS and BE protests.]] It begins to see itself in the present majority, especially in the parties that support the government, a standard, which is the following: it is independent, then it is threatened to be dismissed; criticised, then the organ is extinguished.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u85	That was with the Constitutional Court, Your Honor!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u86	This is not acceptable, it is not a way to deal with the independence of the organs and will certainly count on the fiercest opposition on our part.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u87	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u88	It's just, sirs. Ladies and gentlemen, we can all have divergent ideas and disagree; what is not possible is simply, when you hear a criticism, to threaten an organ such as the Council of Public Finance of extinction or to say, even, "it is a good luck to still have wages". This is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u89	It's coercion! [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u90	Opposition by coercion and insult is not acceptable, but the exercise of power by threat is certainly even more unacceptable. Finally, with regard to the supervision itself and the ideas, or at least a principle of ideas which the Minister has come to present, I must say, Mr President, that the experimentalism in the architecture of the supervisory bodies must be avoided. There's a certain temptation to think that if we change everything, if we start everything from scratch, if we have a completely different architecture, we're going to have a much better supervision. I don't think so. I think we're at risk of having exactly the same thing, but the problems of change. However, there is one thing that is important: if we all understand that supervision can, and should, be improved, we must also not exclude any idea and any proposal from the Government. At least at the outset, I would certainly not find it very sensible to do so without knowing them before, because what we saw was a statement of general principles and I did not understand exactly what Mr Minister wanted, which will undoubtedly have an opportunity to clarify and in good time. As for the changes that the CDS brings, they are much more focused, they are much more surgical and are much more focused on trying to change the supervision inside much beyond their organic architecture or the way the various supervisory organs articulate. [[Congratulations from the CDS-PP and PSD Member Duarte Pacheco.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u91	Several of you will sign up. Members to request clarification from the Minister of Finance, whom I ask how he wishes to respond.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u92	I will answer two blocks of four questions each, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u93	First of all, Mr João Pinho de Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u94	Mr President, Minister, the CDS has addressed this question on an issue which is certainly important, because we all recognize it because it believes that, at the end of one year of the Government's office, it made sense to discuss in Parliament a subject which was chosen by the Government itself as one of the priorities for its mandate. It was the government that said from the outset that banking supervision was something that should be treated as a priority. The CDS, both in opposition and in government, has always spoken on this matter,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u95	It wasn't always the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u96	... proposals on this matter, also committed, about a year ago, at your congress, to having an agenda on banking supervision...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u97	It's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u98	... and bring here very concrete proposals.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u99	The proposals are useless!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u100	Obviously the Government is not obliged to bring its alternative agenda. But we have heard from the morning that you have your ideas, some of which the Minister has implemented, from our point of view, in a rather general way. And there are, of course, different interpretations on the part of the CDS. The first, very important, and which seemed to us to go in a sense that we refuse, has to do with the interpretation that we make of the principle of the independence of the regulators, I wrote, not to mention erroneously, what Mr Minister said: 'the regulators must be independent in relation to those who are the object of their decisions'. Yes, but not only, Minister. In view of the discussion over the last few days, I would like to ask a first question. Surely the regulators must be independent in relation to those who are the target of their decisions, but must or should not also be independent in relation to those who appoint them or those who have the power to legislatively alter nature, composition, form of appointment, powers and actions of these bodies? It is very important that the Government, after the last few days, clarify here what its interpretation of independence is and whether or not it is found that supervisors have to have assurances of independence in relation to those exercising that power, particularly the executive power.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u101	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u102	Then there is a subject in which we fully agree, what Mr. Minister called 'bureaucratic regulation' and which Mrs. Cecilia Meireles called'epistollary supervision'. This sometimes serves the regulators to apologize for having performed their duties when they do not actually perform them, but essentially serves the supervisors who, within this bureaucracy, can often hide the core of their activities, which would otherwise be perceived by the regulator earlier. I therefore ask very clearly: this is one of the principles of the Government, what in particular is the government available to do to reduce this excessive bureaucratic supervision, this epistollary supervision, and to, eventually, reduce to obligations, make existing obligations effective and allow for more effective supervision? Thirdly, I am referring to a matter which we are available to discuss — already Mrs Cecilia Meireles said — which is the matter of the weighting of the system's architecture, the separation between prudential supervision, macroprudential supervision and microprudential supervision. The issue of separation between supervision and resolution is relevant and unfortunately has had negative developments in recent years and even the solutions that are currently being applied have already had practical cases that should make us reflect on a change. What you have defended in this House is not what we bring to this debate, but it is not incompatible with what we bring here. So, on our part, there is a willingness to have a serious debate on this matter, which is essential. We have also brought to this debate very specific subjects which, it seems to us, being simpler, can bring rapid and effective results, and that is also what the Minister was asking about. On the appointment and intervention of three sovereign bodies — Government proposal, hearing of Parliament, appointment of the President of the Assembly of the Republic — if the Socialist Party speaks of international cases, of cases of other countries with which it compares us, there are several countries which have this model of division between the organs of sovereignty of responsibility to appoint the supervisory bodies, to appoint the supervisory bodies, precisely because the intervention of all allows greater independence to exist. As for changes in the corporate government of the banks, I ask whether or not they are available to make changes that allow a government to "satisfy PowerPoint" to a government that effectively satisfies good practices, not only in theory but in its realisation. As regards the appointment of directors of Banco de Portugal, I ask whether or not they are available for the appointment of directors of the Banco de Portugal department to be selected by competition and not the Governor and Board of Directors of Banco de Portugal to make such appointments discretionarily. The marketing of commercial paper and financial instruments and the segregation of spaces and people must be different spaces for different people so that there is no confusion and so that the small customer is not misled about what his money applies. These are very specific issues, the last of which has to do with the auditors. Realizing that, despite what results from the directives, we do not exhaust what we need to do in order not to have conflicts of interest, is the government or is it not available to deepen the question of preventing conflicts of interest of who is an auditor one day and is a consultant the next day, with interests that are obviously conflicting? They are very concrete questions, and if the government has already been thinking about these questions a year later, it is appropriate to have an answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u103	To request clarification, Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u104	Mr President, Minister, it is impossible in the contemporary world to conceive a democracy, a free and open democratic system without the presence of independent supervisory and regulatory entities. There has been a long time since the role of the State is no longer to direct the economy, or the other sectors subject to regulation and supervision, but before it was to realize that the purposes to which the political power is proposed cannot be surmounted to the interests of the proper functioning of these relevant areas, under the penalty of distortion and deviation. This independence of regulatory and supervisory entities must be understood in both directions and not only in one, as the Minister said from the top of the rostrum. This independence must be faced by the regulated, supervised and supervised — otherwise, the phenomenon known as the "capture of the regulator" will be given — and also by the political power, because this is the very essence and reason of being the regulation in any sector, its waterproofing, i.e. the ability not to accept orders and instructions, to accept the determinations or to comply with the wishes of the political power. In short, independent regulation and supervision are opposed to the direction of political power. Address has been recorded as a mere historical reminder of less democratic experiences. Independent regulation and supervision are daughters of the best deepening of contemporary democracy and has become characteristic of free and open societies. Or won't it really be like that? This is the doubt that these last few days, these last few weeks, these last 16 months have left us. In Portugal, despite the godly intentions of the regulator, which Mr Minister there has still made of the high rostrum, is there or is not, by the current parliamentary majority, an intention to return to the times of direct intervention in all sectors of society, at the times when everyone obeyed the wishes of the political leaders? on the far left side of the most radical, we know that directedism has never been abandoned. [[BE's protests.]] But what about the PS? Does it share or not, the Socialist Party, the mistrust of the necessary independence of regulation with its fellow roadmen who, with it, support the government? This PS says it supports regulation — still now it has done so through the Minister — independent supervision and supervision, but it already swears otherwise when it speaks as a parliamentary group. The president and leader of the Socialist Party made very serious statements on this matter. Some of the leading leaders of the Socialist Party have been, in recent days, in obvious manoeuvres of intimidation of the independent voices of supervisors, regulators and supervisors, and this is a political fact that cannot be made clear. The Socialist Party cannot have a face of Janus, with two faces, one in which it affirms pro-regulation and pro-independence of the institutions and the other in which, smiling at its comrades of radical extreme left, it affirms itself as a pro-directist party, which does not accept the independence of these entities. It is not possible to ensure, whatever the institutional architecture of the supervision, regulation or supervision of any sector, including the financial sector, the independence of such entities when the principal policy makers undermine the dignity of regulators, take their protagonists aside and, as someone has already said, make bollying fulanisized and in a dominant tone. This is what they did with the Public Finance Council. This is what you are doing with the Governor of Banco de Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u105	You returned to the time of the MIRN ( Independent Movement for National Renewal )!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u106	And if, somehow, one understands the position of radical Marxist-Leninist extreme left and, here and beyond, painted by Trotskyist tones,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u107	He's just missing the bracelet!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u108	It's coming back to the time of MIRN!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u109	... because, as we all know, if we let them transform the Banco de Portugal and the supervisory bodies into general government directions, because you are against the free market and independent regulation, the same cannot be understood by this Socialist Party. This Socialist Party must be defined! We cannot accept this logic of intimidation which has behind it, uniquely and exclusively, the desire of power by power, the indomitable will of this Socialist Party to occupy all the spaces of power, leaving no room for manoeuvre to independent voices that do not accept the version that everything is well and is recommended. And since there is here an attempt to rewrite the story, an attempt to make almost a retrospective futurology about what happened, for example, in the BES case, I leave the following question: and if the Governor, in the BES case, was Victor Constance and not Carlos Costa, do you understand that the Salgado dynasty had ended as it was?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u110	But it was Carlos Costa! Take the mistake!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u111	I have many doubts! What if the Prime Minister at the time was not Pedro Passos Coelho, but his predecessor or, now, the one who succeeded him, do you believe that the request for funds to pay off the resignations of Ricardo Salgado and his dynasty at the GES had or had not succeeded? Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the Portuguese have no doubt about this and it is important that these answers be given in this debate. [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u112	You have the floor to request clarification from the Minister, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u113	Mr President, Minister, I would like to congratulate you on having in many years concrete changes to the supervisory system, which for the first time are not about makeup, but about an attack on a structural problem that has to do with the way the supervisory system is designed, designed, designed and operationalized. in this respect, we praise the idea of having a macroprudential organ that is more transversal and more capable of having a cross-sectional view of the financial system, the idea of having more coordination in the microprudential field and the idea that the Resolution Authority leaves the Banco de Portugal, but we would like to ask you if it was not better to go further. Going further was having two perfectly transversal entities, a prudential and a behavioral one, each able to look at the bank and the financial markets that are actually the same thing today. I wonder if that wasn't where the system should be headed. There is another problem in banking regulation and supervision that has to do with the Governor of Banco de Portugal. The understanding on the right is funny. The CDS came here to assume that the Banco de Portugal has made mistakes — the PSD does not go so far — and that it has even been appointed by the Socialist Party. [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] But they have not yet been able to answer one question: why have they renamed him? Why did they rename Carlos Costa to be in front of Banco de Portugal?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u114	You're gonna have to say!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u115	And they renamed it for one reason: because Carlos Costa protected the PSD and CDS government at the time of the retraining of BES and, in return, is today Carlos Abreu Amorim Coast Guard of Governor Carlos Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u116	What? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u117	He is a bodyguard of the worst practices of Governor Carlos Costa. The CDS and PSD came here to fill their mouths to talk about independence. So what about the independence Carlos Costa should have from Ricardo Salgado and he didn't? Oh, my God! Doesn't this count for anything? [[Congratulations from BE.]] Is a regulator that is not independent of the banking system admissible? What you are here to do is protect a regulator who does not withdraw the suitability of a bank administrator, who is also an administrator of the non-financial part of a group, who led billions of euros to be transferred to save a group, who had no salvation, at the expense of the bank customers, with information that he had, years ago, and that he did not put into practice? Oh, my God! Is this Governor a problem for the banking system or not? Is it a problem for the supervisory system or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u118	The problem is falsification!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u119	The gentlemen. Members come here to fill their mouths to talk about independence,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u120	It's the bodyguard!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u121	... but do they have a Governor who appoints directors of the Supervision Department who walk between banks, auditors and Banco de Portugal?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u122	Who was appointed an adviser?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u123	Go out to the banks, go back to Banco de Portugal and go to the auditors! And there's no word on it? Oh, my God! [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the independence of a regulator is, first of all, against the regulation. And it is the role of the Government and the Assembly of the Republic to ensure that the Bank of Portugal has a competent and independent Governor. I believe that this is our responsibility and therefore I ask the Minister that Carlos Costa has conditions, taking into account this past and all we know, to play his role as Governor of the Banco de Portugal and we are given today guarantees of security, stability, efficiency and independence from the banking system which he himself is supposed to be regular and supervise. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u124	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u125	To request clarification on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Miguel Tiago has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u126	Mr President, Mr Minister, first of all I would like to say that the CDS, party of offshores, agenda this inquiry to the Government on banking supervision precisely to delete... [[CDS-PP protests.]] ...the offshore theme of political debate. The proof of this is that they come here talking about bank supervision and they don't talk about the area free of supervision...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u127	The PCP is the washing party!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u128	...that are precisely the offshore ones, one of the main problems facing banking supervision.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u129	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u130	Mr Minister, on the financial system, its problems and on the problems of the architecture of financial supervision, the positions of the CFP are known. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] However, and taking into account the scheduling of this interpellation by the CDS and even the position of the PSD and CDS in this debate, it was important to understand what concerns were left by the previous holders of the folder now protecting the Portuguese supervision and financial system. Now they have all these concerns about financial supervision, after having been running a freight program to the banks, saving the bank's major shareholders. The question we have left to you is whether these concerns have been expressed in the transition of the folders from the previous Government. On the other hand, about the recapitalisation of the Box, and because it is also linked to banking supervision, I would like to ask you, since yesterday it was said in the Committee of Inquiry — I do not know whether it accompanied —... [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] ... that the former Government opted for a gradual capitalisation, if it was also made known to it that this was the intention of the former Government and that, being gradual, it would have capital needs ahead. This was an option of the PSD/CDS government and now criticises precisely the fact that the Box needs capital, which results from an option of that Government because it has capitalized the Box below the needs. The former government, after all, merely tried to hide the garbage from the bank under the carpet. Unfortunately, he used Banco de Portugal as a carpet. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u131	I see Mrs Paula Teixeira of the Cross is asking for the floor. To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u132	Mr President, it is for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u133	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u134	Mr President, I would like the report of the Committee of Inquiry to be distributed in which Mr. Ricardo Salgado praised Mrs. Mariana Mortágua as being the person who did the best to conduct the work on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u135	All right, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u136	So on the question of conlui and who helps who...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u137	That's no longer an interpellation, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u138	It is an interpellation, Mr President, because democratic truth is something of great importance to you to guarantee. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u139	That's what I try to do every day. Access to this is easy, it can be done through Parliament's page, but in any case we will do our best to speed up this intervention to the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. You have the floor to answer the questions put by the honourable Members. Members of the CDS-PP, the PSD, the Left Block and the PCP, the Minister for Finance.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u140	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the question of independence, there is a certain confusion between independence and accountability in some of the statements made here. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The regulatory independence status is at the core of its creation. The independence that is intended to safeguard, when the ability to regulate a market is attributed to an institution, is grounded in the response to the difficulties that this market has to self-regulate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u141	Don't!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u142	Therefore, the independence criterion, which is universally associated with the independence of regulators either in the financial area or in any other area, is linked to the difficulty of making a separation between the performance of this market and the ability of such regulators to regulate and supervise them. This is the concept of independence.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u143	Then it was extended!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u144	This concept of independence brought together the modern economies the concept of independence of the central bank in the face of monetary policy. It is fully documented what is the objective of assigning to central banks the status of independence in relation to the conduct of monetary policy. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, let us not be mistaken, the country's financial stability officer is the Government, the Minister of Finance. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is not possible to assign an independent status that makes all financial supervisors irresponsible when their work has to be done in cooperation and conjugation with the Government and with the Ministry of Finance for the ultimate and common objective, as I said in my speech, of financial stability, of consumer protection and, therefore, the Government enters, of protection of taxpayers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u145	That's something else! That's different!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u146	This is the principle of independence that we follow. This is the only principle of independence that applies to our economies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u147	It's not! That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u148	It is clear that the idea that it is not possible to refer to the actions of regulators, because their independence is undermined, is approaching their deresponsibility. And that is very dangerous in the conduct of national financial policy. It is clear that many of the ideas presented in the draft laws, particularly in the draft law of the CDS, have an enormous virtue, which is to bring to debate issues that are very relevant to the national economy and its financial system. It is clear, and I said this in my speech, that the idea of bureaucratic supervision that creates costs for the operation of the activity of the sectors that is supposed to be regular is something that has to be combated and improved. Therefore, all ideas that eliminate overlaps, redundancy and context costs are surely welcome. All ideas that prevent conflicts of interest, incompatibilities that are obviously once again at the source of the need for regulation must be improved and considered and are useful for the debate. We cannot want the Government to refrain from the objective of the financial system functioning effectively. That will be the meaning of the proposals we are going to put forward, which will obviously be the subject of a public debate, just as the proposals presented today will also deserve this debate, and I do not see any incompatibility between these matters. in my speech I referred, as Mrs Mariana Mortágua said, to the question of the tripartite sector supervision model, as we have in Portugal, which in some countries evolved into a dualist system, in which behavioral supervision and prudential supervision are in separate institutions. We will present the debate with a set of very open proposals, basically launching the discussion of a model that can easily evolve exactly in this direction. As I said in my speech, we are concerned that these changes to the supervisory model should be made in order to ensure continuity in the supervisory activity, but it is an evolutionary proposal that can go in that direction. We believe that it is necessary to debate the pros and cons of this evolution, but it is clearly something that is in the spirit and logic of the proposal that we are going to present. It is very important that we understand the need to segregate these functions. For many years we looked very little within the supervisory institutions and we did not realize, as I said in my speech, that there was a creation of successive reforms that did not co-operate with the way these reforms were internalized in the supervisory institutions. We need to clarify, by separating the functions that, in some way, have existed in a debate that has existed for many years, if we think they are conflicting with each other. The Prime Minister yesterday had the opportunity in this House to mention the relations between the Government and the various supervisors and in particular the Governor of the Banco de Portugal, saying that the role of the Government at this time is to work in a loyal and constructive manner with the institutions that exist. However, working in a loyal and constructive manner is not to blame neither the institutions nor the government for improving the performance of each and every one of these institutions. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The financial system arrived at the end of 2015 when this government took possession, with numerous problems and shortcomings in many of its institutions. Some have revealed themselves immediately, as Mr Miguel Tiago said, and the Banif case was exactly one of these problems. It is clear that in the transition of folders there were references to the financial system and I had the opportunity in a Commission here in the Assembly of the Republic to tell us what has been transmitted to us about the Banif situation. As for the rest of the financial system, very little was on the table. We have come to know, as time passes and we are solving the problems existing in the financial system, that many of the solutions that were in practice were temporary, non-structural solutions and that they had no conditions to be implemented in the future. Also yesterday, in this House, a vice president of a bank, the public bank, mentioned exactly this situation in view of the operation of the previous government in the General Deposit Box. It is clear that all of this should also have been considered by the supervisory authorities. All this reveals some shortcomings in the way this whole architecture is established. We are all aware of the difficulty that the National Council of Financial Supervisors has to be an active body, and this is also one of the objectives of the reform that we will propose. It is intended to change the status quo in the way these entities relate to each other so that situations like this do not happen again. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u149	Mr Minister, the Bureau records three more entries for requests for clarification. Mr José Luís Ferreira of The Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u150	Mr President, Minister for Finance, banking supervision is once again the subject of discussion in this plenary, again being at the political stage and at the centre of attention. The first concern that the Greens want to leave in this debate is that banking supervision has long been a topical issue and has come to discussion too often. cyclically we need to discuss banking supervision again, but if this happens, it is because, in fact, supervision is not working and as time goes on more visible it becomes the continuing failure of banking supervision, which has not achieved, in any way, its purposes and in various situations. It failed to monitor, monitor and also there were no penalties for the many irregularities detected in several banking institutions. In other words, in view of what is known, we can say that banking supervision has literally abstained from the use of the mechanisms available under the law to monitor, monitor and punish. In fact, the disappointment expressed by Banco de Portugal with regard to BPN — we do not know whether or not deliberately — has been repeated, although in another dimension, in the BCP and before in the BPP and now also in the collapse of BES. And the Portuguese do not understand what has happened and continues to be able to at least understand or reasonably accept the fact that the State is injecting millions of euros of taxpayers into banks, when these millions lack to invest in our economy and even strengthen social policies and contribute to the State's ability to fulfil its social functions. Therefore, if it is no longer easy for citizens to accept that their tax money is channelled to cover holes in banks, it will be worse to accept this fact without understanding what really happened and, above all, without any responsibility. Mr Minister, as already stated by the end of 2013 the Banco de Portugal will have had information on the true situation of BES and GES and, as far as it is known, the Banco de Portugal has done nothing. If it was, of course, that the current Governor of Banco de Portugal no longer, in our view, have any conditions to continue in the exercise of office and therefore should be removed from the leadership of Banco de Portugal. We well know that we are talking about facts that occurred during the PSD/CDS government which still decided to re-run the current Governor of the Banco de Portugal. Perhaps that is why, when we see the PSD position on this matter, we might be led to think that you are genuinely concerned about the financial system, but the PSD seems to be concerned about its own defence in the decision to renew the current Governor of Banco de Portugal. In any case, what we think is that if the Governor is unable to assert Banco de Portugal's independence from banks, he does not have the conditions to continue in office. Failures of supervision are many and serious and have caused very heavy consequences for taxpayers, who are invariably called to pay the bill of irresponsibility of bankers and supervisory failures and, in the face of promises to be the last time, the truth is that the cases will accumulate. First it was BPN, then BPP and BANIF and now BES. Now, what we think is that cases are already more than enough to lead us to reflect on the need of the State to have a much more active role in banking ownership. And if it is true that the public property of the bank may not solve all the problems of the Portuguese financial system, it is also true that this would be absolutely decisive in solving these problems, in order to prevent other problems from occurring in the future and, above all, to place the bank at the service of our economy, at the service of the Portuguese and the development of the country. In fact, it is enough to watch the private bank manage the money of the Portuguese for the benefit of the great shareholders to realize the need of the State to strengthen its role in the Portuguese financial system at the level of the property of the bank. Mr Minister, we know that the Government is concerned about the stabilization of the Portuguese financial system and that it has, in fact, been working on this. But in the face of everything that has happened, especially with the collapse of BES and GES, it remains to be known whether the current Governor of Banco de Portugal is part of the solution or is part of the problem. The question is whether the maintenance of the current Governor of Banco de Portugal represents a contribution to the desirable stabilization of the financial system, or whether, on the contrary, its maintenance is a disturbing factor in this purpose of stabilising the financial system. Mr Minister, the question I have to ask you does not have to do with this matter, it has to do with an issue which was, in fact, the object of its initial intervention and is on the Government's proposal to, I would not say, create a new model, reformulate banking regulation and supervision, which was also included in the Government's programme. The Minister has already had an opportunity today to give us an idea of the general lines of a new figure on bank supervision and was now interested to know when. When do you think the Government will have the opportunity to put these proposals into the debate, so that they can see the light of the day? When are we going to discuss the proposals in which the government is working to reformulate banking regulation and supervision? [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u151	To make a request for clarification, Mr Duarte Pacheco, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u152	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for Finance, your last intervention is highly worrying to the democratic state. The Minister has shown that he believes in that old phrase « the State I am» and therefore defends not cooperation, but political subordination of regulators and supervisors to the government. That's what you said here, Minister. [[PSD applause.]] You do not believe in independence from the political power and have defended the political subordination of the supervisor to the government. This is unacceptable. This can only have one reading: Mr Minister wants to give a new dress to a sentence already a few years old, because the Minister is defending what many people think, that is to say, who is messing with management, takes it! That is what you wanted to say: "They have to be dependent on us and if they criticize us, they take us! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” That is your interpretation of independence and sovereignty. [[PSD applause.]] Secondly, Mr Minister, we have already felt here, in the various speeches made, an attempt to rewrite history. It is true that in 2011 the financial system was in a state of deep coma, not by chance, but by wrong decisions of many years and it is good to remember who was mostly in power in the first decade of this century, to realize, perhaps, where these evictions occurred in the financial, public and private system. So don't come here to say that the public system is sanctified, because today we know that you have had as many problems and as many evictions as the private sector. Thirdly, we inherited a financial system on the verge of coma and, for four years, we sought to save that financial system. There was cash recapitalisation, with public money, there were loans—not donations, but loans—to BPI, to BCP, with a high interest rate, higher than that received by the State, and these loans have already been paid and today the banks are stronger. It is true that a crisis broke out in a large private bank. But for this reason, we found a model of funding that during the election campaign the socialist leaders said was going to be paid at the taxpayers' expense, but Mr Prime Minister, in the last 15-year debate, has already acknowledged that it is the financial system that will pay it. In fact, if there is a problem, it will not be the taxpayers' money to be used. It is unfortunate that they only recognize this 18 months after the elections. It is also true that nothing for you has been perfect and that you have continued to have problems and that is why you have decided to start solving these problems. For the first one, BANIF, it was as soon as EUR 3000 million of the taxpayers — quite different from the previous model which, as the Prime Minister here acknowledged, was solved without any money from the taxpayers! in this case, that was not your concern. We need to resolve the case of Box and recapitalize. But almost 18 months have passed since you are in government, recapitalisation has not yet begun.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u153	False!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u154	Mr Duarte Pacheco, you have already exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u155	I will finish, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, the bad bank would be created. But where is he? And they made so many, so many other promises! There is a lot of talk, problem solving, unfortunately, very little. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u156	Mr João Oliveira has the floor to ask for clarification.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u157	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Minister for Finance, it has already been said that the CDS, the offshore party, wanted to make this inquiry about banking supervision issues to move aside from the offshore issue. [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Nuno Magalhães.]] And not even about the issue of banking supervision they want to talk about offshores. But we want to put the question here, Minister. It is not possible to talk about bank supervision—at least for someone who has any prospect of bank supervision that can be effective—without talking about that hidden area and forbids bank supervision itself. It is that offshores are a hidden and outside jurisdiction of any kind of banking supervision and sometimes up to the margin of intervention by the judicial authorities. Therefore, Mr Minister, the very concrete question that I would like to ask you is whether, after the BSE scandal and all that it has entailed, if after everything that has been established in relation to BES and the procedures involved in the offshore involving BES, with all the difficulties that this puts to banking supervision, the question that I would like to ask you, I repeat, is whether the previous government, in the transition of functions, has given this government some measure in preparation, some measure taken on the issue of offshore and the possibility of ensuring more effective banking supervision for once and for all, to be able to break the offshore walls, or if, after all, the responsible for the former government today speak a lot of banking supervision, but, when they could have done something, they ensured that offshore could continue as an area prohibited to banking supervision. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u158	Mr. Finance Minister has the floor to answer...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u159	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u160	Mr Nuno Magalhães, have you asked for the floor for what effect?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u161	To call on the Bureau to request the distribution of a document.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u162	You have the floor, sir.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u163	Mr President, since two Members of the Portuguese Communist Party came to talk about BES, namely by connecting the CDS to offshore, I wanted to request the distribution of a document where news is given and proves that BES gives donations, yes, but it is to the Front Party, there more to the Atalaia, for the PCP. [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u164	It will be distributed, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u165	Mr President, I call on the Bureau to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u166	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u167	Mr President, it is also to request the distribution of a document. It's just that we've already guessed CDS tricks...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u168	Tricks, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u169	...and therefore I wanted to distribute a document that denies the CDS...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u170	This part is no longer an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u171	Mr President, it is an appeal to the Bureau to request the distribution of a document which, by then, probably when someone planted that news in the media,... [[CDS-PP protests.]] ... denied this and showed that the PCP hires a service for more than 20 000 € for the installation of multibank terminals, while the CDS kept hiding the BES offshores. [[PCP and PS Members applauded.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u172	Mr Nuno Magalhães, have you again asked for the floor to speak to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u173	Yes, Mr. President. And for the same purpose, that is, to request the distribution of another document, which has to do with the denial of the newspaper that published this news which the PCP has tried to wash and whitewash. It's just that we already know the PCP tricks. But there the BES gave, gave and where the PCP washed, washed. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u174	The Bureau recalls that its function is not to distribute documents. But in any case, the parliamentary groups have this possibility. Anyone else want to distribute documents? [[Pause.]] So you have the floor Mr. Minister of Finance to distribute answers. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u175	Mr President, Mr. José Luís Ferreira, as I mentioned in the initial speech, we received a preliminary document from the working group that we formed a week ago to start this discussion on the architecture of the financial system. What we are looking forward to is, in the coming weeks, to make public a document which we will put into public debate for a period of approximately three months and we think that, after that debate, we will make the legislative proposals corresponding to this amendment. This is a debate, as we see today's very comprehensive speeches in this House, which requires a degree of consensus which the Government considers has to be very broad. Therefore, it will surely be a very rich debate, months of quite intense debate. Mr Duarte Pacheco has made some disturbances as far as I am concerned. I used the word 'cooperation' to refer to institutional cooperation between the government and regulators, which is very different from subordination.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u176	Subordination is the antonym of cooperation!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u177	I don't know exactly what you mean by the way, but I assure you that cooperation is something we have used in a very effective way to solve the very varied problems posed by the Portuguese financial system. And the enormous difficulties that this system faced at the end of 2015 were certainly corrected with institutional cooperation with the Banco de Portugal, the CMVM ( Committee on the Securities Market ), the insurance association, finally with all existing financial regulators in Portugal. On the question of partisanization, I would just point out that it was not this government that appointed a former Secretary of State for the administration of Banco de Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] Regarding the issues of interference in the institutions at the ICC ( Parliamentary Commission for Inquiry ) yesterday, a former Vice-President of Caixa made it very clear what the last government did in this regard. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u178	That's it, that's it! Remember!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u179	It is clear, Mr President, that the recapitalisation of the Box has been insufficient. It is clear that there have been several loans to banks, some of which, fortunately, successfully, institutions that only achieved a definitive stabilization in 2016, and others have run quite badly, as happened, for example, with BANIF. Therefore, I am quite surprised that the honourable Member here refers to the Banif resolution as having been a responsibility of this government, after eight restructuring plans not approved by the European Commission... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...and such a hole in the BANIF that there were no conditions for the Resolution Fund to intervene...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u180	There was no will!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u181	...in this process of how he is created.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u182	This has already been explained to PSD a thousand times, but the PSD does not understand!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u183	Mr President, the situation was so serious that there were no conditions for the intervention of the Resolution Fund. It was too obvious and too serious an inaction for the Portuguese financial system. Mr. João Oliveira, there was no plan for offshores, nor was there any plan for the Box. So at the time the government took possession, in fact, there was not even a plan for BANIF; there were warnings, which were quite serious and that were for the coming weeks. This was the plan that existed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is also understood, as I said earlier in my reply to Mr Duarte Pacheco, that, after eight plans were not accepted, perhaps there was little more in the previous Government's imagination to solve the financial problem. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u184	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u185	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u186	To do bullying!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u187	Mr President, it is to request the distribution of a document.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u188	Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u189	Mr President, this is a page of the Memorandum of Understanding of the Troika signed in May 2011 which prohibits the Portuguese State from capitalizing the Box with public money.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u190	Just say what the document is, it is not worth developing the subject, Mr.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u191	Let me finish, Mr. President. As I said, on this page of the Memorandum of Understanding, signed by the PS Government, the capitalization of the Box is prohibited with public money.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u192	The Bureau shall arrange for the distribution of the document, as long as it arrives here.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u193	Of course, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u194	So yesterday we didn't get the discussion we had on the Box Investigation Board? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u195	And now, if I may, Mr President, would like to make a second request to the Bureau,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u196	Please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u197	... to ask whether it is possible to confirm in the records of this House that Elisa Ferreira, who was Minister of the PS Government, was a Euro MP, when he took office in the Banco de Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u198	I don't think it's necessary to confirm.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u199	Mr President, I would also like to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u200	Mr Secretary of State, have you also requested the floor to request the distribution of a document?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u201	Mr President, it is to make an appeal to the Bureau. It is that we also have documents and we also wanted to distribute the documents that Mr. Vice-President of the General Deposit Box... [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u202	Ex-Vice!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u203	I haven't said anything yet!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u204	You're right, sir, I haven't said anything yet. But I'll say. As I said, we wanted to distribute the documents that the former Vice-President of the General Deposit Box delivered and that prove that the capitalisation that was made is insufficient, which explains the damage accumulated in the following years. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u205	I could have done the evil of asking how this is in the hands of the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u206	Mr Secretary of State, you have to bring these documents to the Bureau, because we can only distribute them. For an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor on behalf of the Left Block Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u207	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Left Block has no illusions about the real powers of financial supervision to prevent a crisis. We're very pragmatic. As long as the financial markets remain unregulated, while complexity, opacity and financial speculation are accepted and encouraged, as long as the eyes are closed to the existence of a shadow banking system and the banking system is not under public control, as long as there is good supervision, it will not be able to prevent banking crises or failures. Having said that, it is necessary to add that the current model of financial supervision is wrong—and is wrong for several reasons. Let us remember its essential features: a Banco de Portugal, all-powerful, which accumulates various functions—is Central Bank, is supervisor, is a bank resolution and sales entity ; CMVM, which supervises securities markets and financial instruments ; the Insurance Institute of Portugal, which supervises insurance ; the National Council of Financial Supervisors, which should coordinate the activity of the three, but which is not actually capable of doing this coordinating activity. This model has two types of problems: from the point of view of drawing the system, it makes no sense to have compartmentalized, separate and pond entities. There are practical examples that show us this. The National Council of Financial Supervisors was not even informed about the problems and resolution of BES. Banco de Portugal has never warned CMVM about BES and CMVM has never been able to intervene in the field of financial products. But it is not only in the field of financial institutions that this model is wrong; it is also unable to adapt to the way banks work today. I will give you a simple example of an interbank market financing operation: a monetary market fund delivers a deposit of €100 to a bank. In exchange, this bank gives a collateral to this fund, public debt bonds, for example, in the amount of €100. These bonds, which the bank had, had been handed over to the bank by a hedge fund in exchange for 100 € delivered by the bank to that hedge fund. This whole operation is done one night and reverted the following day—is a rest(Repurchase Agreement ), a form of financing in the interbank market. in fact, this bank, which is supervised by Banco de Portugal, is an intermediary exposed to two different funds, which are supervised by CMM. I think that we can easily understand the weaknesses of a model in which a single financing operation is divided between two supervisors who do not interact with each other. The second problem of this model is that it confers excessive and conflicting powers on the Banco de Portugal. The Banco de Portugal has systematically avoided scrutiny and cooperation, invoking a special status for itself. It appears that the special status that the Banco de Portugal has is not due to it for its supervisory functions,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u208	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u209	...but, yes, by its role as monetary authority, and there is nothing to compel these functions to be performed by the same institution. Finally, it is not possible to accept that the institution which supervises is the one which determines the resolution and the one which sells the bank settled to other institutions supervised by that institution. On the basis of this analysis, the Left Block will bring to the Assembly of the Republic a draft resolution with its contribution to the debate on the reorganization of the supervisory system. We defend the maintenance of Banco de Portugal as a monetary authority and the establishment of two entities, one in charge of behavioral supervision and another of prudential, bringing together in each of the valences of Banco de Portugal, CMVM and ISP. These two entities shall be coordinated by the Higher Supervisory Board, which shall also host the resolution authority. This is our proposal for the medium and long-term supervision of banking, but it does not solve the short-term problem. And one of the biggest problems of Banco de Portugal in the short term is today its Governor. Carlos Costa has already shown that he does not have the ability to supervise and intervene in a timely and effective manner in the banking system. [[Congratulations from BE.]] The Report of the Committee of Inquiry to BES is a list of serious failures of the Governor : the Banco de Portugal has had warnings about the situation of GES (Groupe Espírito Santo ) and not adequately intervened; the Banco de Portugal has not informed the other regulators about the situation; the Banco de Portugal has not withdrawn the suitability of banker Ricardo Salgado, even after having known a change in the accounts of ESI ( Espírito Santo International ) and the violation of its determinations ; the Banco de Portugal has allowed the systematic violation of its determinations, causing a reputation risk to turn into a credit risk and a real risk to BES, which was an important bank of the Portuguese banking system ; the Banco de Portugal has conducted an internal audit of its own practices and refused to disclose the results of this hearing to the Assembly of the Republic or to whom it is also supposed to have the role of the Banco de Portugal ; the Bank of Portugal has created false expectations in the trade disputes. We now know from the research work of Pedro Coelho, that in addition the Banco de Portugal has ignored the views of the supervisor of Dubai on the washing of Angolan money through BES and that the Banco de Portugal has hidden documentation from the Commission of Inquiry. These two data are new to a lesson that is already old: Carlos Costa is the most in Banco de Portugal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u210	I would ask you to conclude, Madam Member.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u211	I'm done now, Mr. President. It is on behalf of the stability of the financial system and also on behalf of the interests of taxpayers, who have been damaged by the inaction or bad action of the Governor of the Banco de Portugal, that the Block of Left will present in the Assembly of the Republic a draft resolution to recommend to the Government that Carlos Costa do Banco de Portugal withdraw, demanding his resignation for being unable to perform his duties in order to ensure the stability of the financial system and the interest of Portuguese taxpayers. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u212	For an intervention, Mr João Galamba has the floor on behalf of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for Finance, State Secretarys: Before I begin my intervention, I wanted to say that it is with some strangeness that I see the hysteria especially of the PSD, which referred to a statement by the President of the Socialist Party and Leader of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group as being disorderly and unacceptable. The President of the Socialist Party and Leader of the Parliamentary Group said only what all Portuguese think: in fact, there were very significant failures in the Banco de Portugal and not always their intervention was time-consuming.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u214	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u215	I do not know where the PSD sees here a threat to the functioning of the democratic regime, but I would remind the PSD, and now the CDS, which we do not forget that, a little while ago — yes — there were unacceptable attacks on the regular functioning of the institutions and an attack on the functioning of the democratic rule of law. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We remember well, the Portuguese remember well, and I hoped that Mr. PSD Members, particularly Mr Carlos Abreu Amorim, also recalled the following statements: by Teresa Leal Coelho, PSD Member, Chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernization, when he suggested sanctions against judges, Pedro Passos Coelho, when he suggested that judges should be chosen differently, by Luís Montenegro, when he suggested the extinction of the Constitutional Court. [[P.S.'s applause.]] So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, they have some shame when they talk about attacks on the state of democratic law, which, yes, are the protagonists of you in shame in the last legislation. Take this previous note, and move on to the subject that brings us here.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u216	Ah! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u217	Since the outbreak of the financial crisis, there have been profound changes to the financial supervision model at European level, with the creation of new regulatory entities and new supervisory intervention powers, which have become wider, more intrusive and more demanding. Portugal, as it is evident, through the transposition of directives, such as CRD-IV ( Capital Requirements Directive-IV ) or BRRD ( Bank Recovery and Resolution Directive ), followed the changes that have emerged at European level by strengthening and extending supervisory powers. however, and contrary to what has happened in other Member States, Portugal has not revised its model and its financial supervision architecture — strangely, it is said. After the 2009 public consultation, which arose in response to BES and BCP ( Banco Comercial Português ) cases, what does the new PSD/CDS government do as soon as it assumes functions? Gives continuity to the project started in 2009 by the then Secretary of State of the Treasury and Finance Carlos Costa Pina? Remove the proposals and suggest an alternative? Don't! It simply abandons any idea of reform of the architecture of the supervisory system in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Carlos Costa Pina, at that time, predicted the creation of a twin Peaks model, with strengthening and segregation of prudential supervision, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, behavioral supervision. What did the PSD and CDS do? Nothing! The initiatives to review the regulatory and supervisory model in Portugal, without being understood why—we did not realize at the time and we still do not understand today— were totally abandoned. It was a political option of the former government that undermined financial stability, undermined Portuguese confidence in the financial system and banks, undermined the interest of taxpayers and, of course, undermined the country's credibility. It was another bad option from the PSD government / CDS. The current model of financial supervision in Portugal presents serious risks and limitations: conflicts of various interests, because behavioral supervision, which protects customers and investors, has obvious conflicts with prudential supervision, which aims to ensure the solvency and stability of financial institutions; the fragmented, uncoordinated and differentiated performance of different supervisory entities, which hinders the integrated and cross-sectional view of financial supervision, in particular in relation to large economic groups and conglomerates; and the National Council of Financial Supervisors, which was supposed to be an entity coordinating and articulating the intervention of the three sectoral supervisors, does not work, and has not worked, because one of their problems is that the Banco de Portugal ends up having total primacy over CMM and the Institute of Insurance in Portugal and to subordinate the interests of the other two supervisors to its own interests, transforming the National Board of Supervisors into a mere advisory body, in the best case—and it has not been, during difficult periods of the previous legislation. All these risks, which our supervisory model already had in 2011, ended up being materialized in Portugal — all of them! First, it was the case BPN ( Portuguese Business Bank ), which should have issued warnings and which made the limits of the current model evident — that is why the Government and Mr. Secretary of State Costa Pina launched the public discussion on the revision of the supervisory model. But instead of learning from the mistake and moving forward in that direction, the opposite exact happened; instead of learning from the experience, we learn. [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] Not only has it not been sought to make our model of supervision more coherent and effective, as the opposite exact was done, adding dysfunctions to the previously existing dysfunctionalities. This is an example of the allocation of macro-prudential supervision to Banco de Portugal, which does not ensure the desired cross-sectional view of the financial sector and cooperation between supervisors and which further increases the risk of conflict of interest. In addition, the Bank of Portugal was set up as a resolution authority in the wake of the directive on bank resolution and recovery, clearly violating the determinations of the European Directive. If our risks resulting from the supervisory model were already high before 2011, the options taken from 2011 to 2015 worsened, and much worsened the problem. This is evidence of this, in the disaster of the BES / GES case, the late and soft intervention of Banco de Portugal, the non-protection of the interests of customers and investors, caused by the absence of effective cooperation and coordination between supervisors, the evident conflict between prudential supervision and resolution. It is therefore urgent to do what the previous government has not done and to seriously reformulate our supervisory model. [[Protests from PSD MP Carlos Abreu Amorim.]] Internal conflicts in the Banco de Portugal need to be resolved, in particular by segregating functions and resolution powers. It is urgent to balance the relationship between the three supervisors, ending with the primacy and absolute domain of the Banco de Portugal in relation to the CMVM and the Instituto de Seguros de Portugal. If this does not happen, everything will always be done in the name of financial stability, a justification which all justifies and which has been very useful to Banco de Portugal to cover up its errors, but which has not served the country. The current government has inherited all the problems of past inaction in relation to the financial sector: decapitalized banks, the New Bank for Selling, the Box, without knowing if it could be recapitalized,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u218	And she's been recapitalized? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u219	...the problem of bad credit, the payment of bank debt to the Resolution Fund — which had to be resolved by this government — and the supervisory model. in the field of the supervisory model, it should have been given continuity to the efforts made in the past in 2011, but without realizing why, the previous government completely abandoned these initiatives between 2011 and 2015. [[PSD Member Protests Duarte Filipe Marques.]] And now comes the CDS, after a report from the SIC and some embarrassment in the case of offshores, present, in a hurry, some initiatives.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u220	In a hurry? Oh, my God! That one now!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u221	It was already marked!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u222	These initiatives are very welcome, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we would expect the CDS to do something when it was in government and it didn't. [[CDS-PP protests.]] In all these areas I have mentioned in my speech, the government has already solved the problems or is in the process of solving them, taking significant steps in this direction. They are good news for the country, for the confidence of Portuguese in the financial sector and in the regulation existing in Portugal. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President José de Matos Correia took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u223	The Bureau does not register entries to request clarification from Mr João Galamba. Mr Miguel Tiago, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Portuguese Communist Party, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u224	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The fact that the CDS has scheduled an inquiry on bank supervision only says a lot about how the CDS seeks to remove its responsibilities in the offshore scandal, but also how it continues to seek to ban bankers and the government itself from being part of the serious situation of the Portuguese financial system. In the face of successive scandals such as the BPP ( Banco Privado Inglês ), the BCP, the BPN, the BES and the BANIF ( Banco Internacional do Funchal ), what the CDS here brings us is the same idea as always: the blame is on the supervisor. We need to remind the CDS that it's the supervisor's fault, but it's not just him. It is the fault of those who privatized the Portuguese bank and handed it over to the monopoly groups, who control it, and to the bankers, who for decades have made fortunes at the expense of the country. The fault lies with those who, from successive governments, have been granting these monopoly groups increasing control over the bank, other national strategic sectors and the country itself. The fault lies with those who over the years have made laws and rules in accordance with the private bank's profit regulation, such as those that allow the use of offshore to escape taxes and divert property. It is the fault of those who have accepted without questioning the European and international taxes and rules that allow the movement of capital without frontiers and control and withdraw any capacity of States to intervene in the financial sector in defence of national interest. Banking supervision has been the veil with which successive governments hide the predatory nature of the privatized bank, a complicit partner of the private banking sector that has sunk the country. The central problem lies there, in the way a financial system subordinated by banks whose sole aim is to increase the profits of its shareholders, doing what is necessary for this, committing crimes and fraud, violating the law, forcing entire countries to pay for their losses. In view of the evidence that the bank in the hands of private shareholders does not serve the interests of the people or the country, in the face of evidence that the private bank is unstable by nature, governments and the European Union have built the illusion that supervision must solve these problems by monitoring banks and bankers. Nothing is more false! The supervisor is a communications agency of private banks. For those who believe that the supervisor is our public instrument next to the bank, here is the reality: the Banco de Portugal is the voice of private bankers to the public, now still above, ordered remotely by the European Central Bank. Knowing all the problems of the banks, Banco de Portugal no longer does and has done nothing but hide the problems and continue to tell the Portuguese: « Keepcalm, that the bank is under supervision » — « Keep calm, that we are going to supervise ». After all this, they now want to convince us of another falsity: that banking union, with the concentration of banking ownership in megabanks, monopolies at European level, regulated and supervised directly by the European Central Bank, must solve the problems. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, since the end of the 1980s, by choice of successive governments, the privatization of banks was a moment of abdicating national interest and of giving up one of the main levers of the economy and an important instrument of sovereignty. The PS, the PSD and the CDS decided to hand over the bank to the large economic groups, who came to use it as an instrument of extortion of national wealth, adding obscene profits for more than three decades in comparison with the balance between the public, private and cooperative economy, and the fight against the formation of monopolistic groups, both orders provided for in the Constitution of the Portuguese Republic. Also by choice of PS, PSD and CDS, Portugal was placed on its knees before Economic and Monetary Union on the pretext of progress and growth. at the same time that they gave the banking business to large economic groups and exposed banking activity to increasing volatility and financial speculation, they tried to reassure the Portuguese with the supervisory ambush. It was not long before it was realized that supervision and regulation were manifestly unable illusions to contain the assault on the Portuguese banks. on the contrary, they have covered them. See the case BES : as the CFP has denounced, the Banco de Portugal knew, at least since 2001 about the serious problems of BES and never intervene. Since the use of the RRRT ( Exceptional Regime of Tax Regularization ) by Ricardo Salgado, which the PCP questioned the Government and the Banco de Portugal on the suitability of the banker and the Governor of Banco de Portugal never intervened, despite having all the reasons to do so. If the Governor has responsibilities in the way in which supervisory acts were conducted, the PSD/CDS Government has direct political responsibilities in the actions of the Governor and in the political options that protracted the country before the large economic groups. We have the right to state that the Banco de Portugal should have done more than sent letters to the bankers, rather than advise them or make suggestions to them, but we also have a duty to state that there was a PSD/CDS government that legitimized the action of the Governor of Banco de Portugal and resumed it, even after many of its serious failures are known.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u225	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u226	The Governor of Banco de Portugal and the government PSD / CDS, by hand, buried the country to save bankers. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what Portugal needs, what Portugal needs is another policy. Portugal needs to recover its monetary and banking sovereignty,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u227	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u228	... including the national control of the Banco de Portugal, which is transformed into a branch of the European Central Bank. Portugal needs to ensure public control of the bank. Portugal needs to rescue its monetary sovereignty, freeing the country from submission to the euro, placing the banking system at the service of the people and the country. This is the path of alternative policy that the CFP advocates to ensure progress and development and to place the bank at the service of the people and the country. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u229	For an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u230	Mr. President, Mr. Minister for Finance, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: During this afternoon, we witnessed an extraordinary attempt to rewrite the past. And it's funny the past that you guys are. PS, Left Block and PCP members are trying to create because it is a past in which the world began in 2011. Mr. Finance Minister comes here and complains about the inheritance? Mr Minister, has it ever happened that a government that inherited a country in bankruptcy, perhaps, had a much heavier inheritance than that which Mr Minister can now complain about? [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and PSD.]] It is also very strange, it is in fact almost a world contrary to hear that many criticisms that the PS and, above all, the Left Block and the PCP do are exactly the same as I heard Ricardo Salgado do to the supervision and the Governor of the Banco de Portugal.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u231	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u232	Don't stop being too weird to hear the same speech! And for two details, the two details that were mentioned here, first, that of the recruitment of the department director that the Left Block spoke, Mrs. Mariana Mortágua, the administrator with the supervisory fur will not be the administrator Elisa Ferreira? And does not this department director have exactly that hair? Asking this question at meetings with the government may make some sense.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u233	I've done it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u234	It remains to be known how the CDS proposal will vote, which responds with transparency to opaque appointments.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u235	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u236	With regard to the CFP, Mr Miguel Tiago, there is no longer any idea to present how we are now entering an area where the CFP, in the absence of arguments, uses only insults. On offshore, I would like to remind the honourable Member the following: whoever was here hiding that substantial part of the statements on offshore transfers was not read with a government that the CFP supports was Mr. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u237	So who has something to hide about the offshore is Mr. Deputy!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u238	Well, well!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u239	Finally, I wanted to mention the following: I have heard very few say what they really want to do in supervision. I have heard Mr. Minister of Finance present concrete proposals on institutional architecture and have heard several other parties say about it. But, ladies and gentlemen. Members, or we realize that, often, what is wrong is the practice of supervision itself and the way it is put into practice or I am afraid that from here to two, three, four, five years we continue to have the same discussions. If the gentlemen. Members want to continue to live in a world that is truly whitening the genesis of the problems we are experiencing today in the financial system — and Genesis is in the supervision that preceded the financial crisis of 2008 / 2009 —, if Mr. Members would like to continue to make this whitening the change of the agreement they have for your maintenance in power, they will never come to real solutions; they will come up with arrangements that seem to change something so that it will be more or less in it. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u240	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u241	To what effect, Mr. Deputies?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u242	For an appeal to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u243	You have the floor, Mr President, but, if possible, that is a real request.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u244	Yes, Mr. President. It's not my habit to make a lot of inquiries,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u245	Isn't that habit? Oh, my God! That's good!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u246	...and, perhaps, I am exhausting today the number of petitions that could possibly be made to the Bureau during the next legislative session. Mr President, it is to request the distribution of a document: the registration of the vote on Bill No 962 / XII ( 4 ). ( a ) the CFP, which proposes the strengthening of supervisory obligations by the Banco de Portugal, submitted with several proposals—including some that the CDS now seems to have made its own! — and that, after all, was plunged into the previous legislation, because the CDS and PSD voted against. For those who accuse the CFP of not presenting proposals is a weak figure. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u247	Mr. João Oliveira, you will be pleased to deliver the document for distribution to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u248	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u249	For the same purpose, I assume. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u250	Yes, it is for the same purpose, Mr President. It is to ask the Bureau to distribute the bill in the same terms as the PCP presented in this Legislation, when it has a majority, along with the PS, BE and Les Verdes. This is because the coherence of the PCP will or will not be seen.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u251	What about CDS proposals? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u252	For an intervention, Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira has the floor on behalf of the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u253	And now the CDS is going to vote in favour? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u254	A lot of talk and, in time, no action!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u255	Mrs. Members, you want to create conditions for Mr. Paulo Trigo Pereira to use the floor. [[Pause.]] Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u256	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We are almost finishing the debate on the CDS initiative. Obviously, it is an initiative to praise, but we regret that the CDS has indeed presented two casuistic proposals that do not address the essentials of the problem. And the main problem is that in recent years taxpayers have injected into the financial system, into the bank, many millions of euros, billions of euros, which have enlarged public debt, public debt, which we will have to pay in the future. This was due to multiple causes: one, it has to do with people and the other, it has to do with institutions. The relationship with people has to do with business ethics, which is something that has not been addressed here, but which I would like to do. As for business ethics, the first culprit of everything is not supervision, it is people, and there is a culture of business ethics that, perhaps, should change in this country. It is another topic that has to do with training in management and economic schools, but it is a topic to which we should return. But apart from people, there are institutions and, for these, we have an architecture of the financial system that has changed fundamentally in recent years. Unfortunately, the previous government has limited itself to transposing... In fact, there are things that are not necessary transposing, because Basel III has an automatic effect in Portugal. But the former Government did not, in fact, touch on the architecture of the financial system and the CDS proposal does not. The Minister of Finance has already given some ideas here about what he would do, the Left Block has also announced that he will present a proposal. basically, what we have to agree on is how we are going to work on this matter, which is of national interest and which should be of broad consensus in this House in order to reformulate the country's financial supervision system. Basically, we currently have a model that is sectoral. That is: we have the bank and a regulation for the bank, which is the Banco de Portugal ; we have insurance and pension funds and we have something called the Portugal Insurance Institute and now is called the Insurance Supervisory Authority and Pension Funds ; and then we have a third authority, which is the CMVM, for capital markets. This is sectoral regulation. There are many countries in Europe that have changed the model of sectoral regulation to a model of functional regulation, in which basically distinguishes both functions and then sometimes has a 'hat' above. I believe that the Government is inclined towards this model, but obviously I do not want to anticipate the model that the Government wants to propose. What I think is fundamental — and this is the suggestion I leave to the Government — is that what should be done: a good working paper. I know that the Governor of Banco de Portugal also commissioned a study to a consultant, so perhaps it would be good to know this study as well. All contributions in Portuguese society on the macro reformulation of the financial system should be made available. After a final text of the Government, there must be a period of public debate—in fact, as was done in 2009 and 2010—and, having closed this period of public debate, the Government must make its final version and submit it as a proposal. This is the methodology. I think that it would be good if there were the greatest reception possible, because this is a reform of the regime and although, obviously, it is a political-party struggle, it is a serious thing. We regret, but the CDS initiatives are very, but very, very limited. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u257	Mrs. Members, who have exhausted the stage of discussion, have moved to the closing phase, whose first intervention is the CDS-PP. Mr. João Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u258	Mr. President, Mr. Minister for Finance, Mr. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The question here today, on the initiative of the CDS, is a consistent work of those who have committed themselves to making an opposition to alternatives and a proposed opposition. We have not come here to criticize what the government is doing. It is true that we would have difficulty in doing so because we could not perceive any work to the government. Still, we have not criticized this absence of work to which the Government had committed itself. We brought our proposals. We have brought the proposals of a party which, being opposed, commits itself to having alternatives. And they could say, and some even dared to say, "Do it now, because they didn't do it in the government." That's not true! The CDS has always had the same work in this Parliament in terms of financial supervision and financial system. Since the BPN case, where we were on the front line of reporting irregular practices in the financial sector, but also worrying omissions in supervision. We were in opposition. in the case of BES, we were in the government. That someone here can say that the CDS, in the Committee of Inquiry to BES, did not have exactly the same requirement in relation to another financial institution and to another Governor of the Banco de Portugal ;... [[CDS-PP applause.]] ...that someone would say that in the scrutiny of Carlos Costa's action we were different from Vítor Constáncio. on the contrary, we demanded Carlos Costa more because he was required more, because after the errors of Vítor Constâncio the Banco de Portugal should have learned, had changed his culture and, in many matters, did not change his culture, did not change his performance and therefore continued to have insufficient results. No, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not say it now; we said it at the time and we voted in favour of the conclusions of this Committee of Inquiry, which they said exactly that. Already in this Parliament, we have participated in a committee of inquiry to BANIF, in which we have strongly disagreed with the political solution that this government has applied, but we have had a responsible work which has led us not to vote against the conclusions, although we disagreed with many of them, because we feel that it is very important that the work done by Parliament in the scrutiny of the supervisors and that it was very bad that we put ourselves out of what is a joint indicative work, both to financial institutions and to supervisors, that the path they followed was not a right path, regardless of party disputes. We do not agree with what the government did in BANIF, but we were able not to vote against the conclusions of the respective Commission of Inquiry, because we found that there was something more important in Parliament's role in relation to the financial system and supervision. What we bring here today is a complete package. You can discuss if it is more or less complete, but it starts in the system architecture. We have a proposal on the Board of Financial Supervisors, we have a proposal on architecture with regard to supervisory responsibilities and resolution responsibilities, and we think it is important to discuss this matter. We do not ignore that under the applicable European directive there are different solutions in other countries and that there are segregation solutions that are probably more effective than that solution that is enshrined in our agenda. We are going to discuss this, we are going to move forward, but we do not accept that we are devaluation of what are concrete contributions from those who, day by day, in successive committees of inquiry, see what happens and do not seem to mind continuing to ignore. So if we, in the BANIF Committee of Inquiry, and so far in the General Deposit Box Inquiry Committee, realize that the amendments that have been made, for example in relation to auditors, are not yet sufficient, that it is still possible for the same auditor to analyse the inequalities of a financial institution in that quality, that of the auditor, tomorrow be a consultant to an entity that, on the market, wants to acquire these credits from the same institution, if we realize that this is still possible we will find that it is little to change this matter? If we realize that there are appointments of department directors in Banco de Portugal which at least reveal the suspicion of promiscuity between the regulator's responsibility and intervention on the market of private institutions, we will ignore this and will not replace the rules of appointment by competitions in Banco de Portugal? And, Mr Minister, on issues of independence, this is not just about economic independence in terms which, well, it has formulated; institutional independence is as relevant as economic independence, it is also enshrined in treaties and must therefore be respected and institutional independence must also be enshrined. The proposal we have on institutional independence is nine years old. I don't know what television programme has been driving this proposal for nine years, but there may be someone who will explain it to us. For nine years we have argued that, as in other countries, supervisors should be appointed on a proposal from the Government, an election from the Assembly of the Republic and an appointment from the President of the Republic, thus contributing to an institutional commitment to ensure independence and balance of powers. We also put forward many concrete proposals on the issue of the marketing of financial products. We, in several of the cases that we had to analyze here, realize that, at the financial institution counter, products that should not be sold in these conditions are sold, which are sold by the same account managers that day by day deal with the customers of the banks, which are sold in the same counters where it is about day-to-day operations without the complexity that often the acquisition of this type of product has. And we're gonna keep ignoring that? Will we find that it is little to make changes that will protect the common citizen from what are aggressive commercial practices of financial institutions and that will result in injuries to various financial institutions for which everyone has a lot of understanding, but which then do not have any proposals to prevent these situations from repeating? That is why we now bring these proposals: to change an institutional architecture that is not perfect, to change procedures that allow irregular situations and harmful situations and to protect the common citizen from two things that have been very harmful in recent years.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u259	You want to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u260	I will finish, Mr. President. These two things are: on the one hand, as a contributor, to have to pay damages generated by financial institutions that have not been properly supervised and then be harmed by operations of these financial institutions where the information that should have been provided was not provided, where the deception existed and, of course, affected those who were not in a position to hire the products that had been hired. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the question is very simple, the debate is serious. Of course, some are more interested in the climate of crispaction that is sometimes seen in this Parliament; we are more interested in the ensuing debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u261	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u262	Will there be proposals from other parties or not? Will there be any government proposals or not? There is already debate and approval, or not, of these proposals we will conclude on the degree of commitment of each of the political forces to the solution of these problems. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u263	To close the debate on behalf of the Government, Mr President-in-Office of the Council has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u264	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: At the final stage of this debate, the last appointments for the Banco de Portugal were mentioned, and I would like to take the opportunity to recall that these appointments were proposed by the Banco de Portugal and approved by the Government. The Assembly of the Republic, in good time, brought to the plenary the discussion on financial supervision. We welcome the interest in this matter, its importance for the lives of Portuguese, for the national economy and for public finances. at the conclusion of this debate, I reaffirm the Government's position: the Government believes that regulation and supervision are the answer to the risks of the financial system and that regulation and supervision are the instrument that best ensures financial stability. The Government welcomes with great interest all the ideas of the parliamentary groups that bring greater effectiveness to regulation and financial supervision. However, this is a complex matter, with many related issues and divergent interests in the presence. Any amendment requires a thorough knowledge and a thoughtful and clear reflection, something that the debate we are going to have will certainly achieve. But it is not possible, nor is it desirable to think in isolation some of the proposals and views that you have. Members presented today. Some of the proposals anticipate, out of context, legislative initiatives which the Government is preparing and which will be presented to Parliament shortly. in the field of rules, much has been done in the last year. In June last year, the Government passed a decree on transparency requirements for information relating to listed companies. A fundamental review of the securities sanctions regime, with a particular impact on market abuse crimes, is under discussion in this House. This proposed law will be followed by two other projects, which harmonize, with that scheme, the rules of investment funds and collaborative funding, so that regulation is consistent, complete and without regulatory loopholes. in the coming months, the Government will also present legislative initiatives on mortgage credit, credit intermediaries, supervision of financial indices, audit activity and insurance, among many others. Everything in due time. All with the necessary weighting. As regards the supervisory model, as is public, the Government has entrusted a working group, coordinated by Dr. Carlos Tavares, with the task of evaluating the current financial supervisory model and proposing the competent reform. This working group has already presented the lines of the reform proposal and its basis. It should be borne in mind that any change in institutional architecture should take into account the costs of its implementation, including the risk of reduced supervisory capacity during the transition process. The reform of the financial supervision model should be enhanced through coordination between supervisors. unlike the current National Financial Supervision Council, the new entity responsible for this coordination will be endowed with legal personality and own resources. This body will be entrusted with its own and not merely advisory tasks — as in the case of the current Council — such as those of macro-prudential authority and resolution authority. With its creation, it will respond to two of the main failures most consensually pointed out to the current financial supervision system: conflicts of interest between microprudential supervision and resolution decisions and insufficient coordination and exchange of information between the supervisory authorities. It is in a serene and thoughtful manner, duly studied and structured, that the Government has solved the problems of the financial system, and that is also how it intends to continue to strengthen and improve the financial supervision system. The debate on this subject is, of course, very welcome, very useful and essential for strengthening the Portuguese financial system. This appeal is now, here, very clearly launched. Let us work together to improve the national financial system. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-03-09.u265	With the intervention of the Minister for Finance, the debate on appeal No 9 / XIII ( 2 ) is closed. ( a). Before we close our work, I announce that the next plenary meeting will be held tomorrow, Friday, at 10 a.m. and will have the following order of business: from the first point, there is an assessment of draft resolutions 658/ XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the reorganization of the network of offices to assist victims of domestic violence by GNR and PSP ( CDS-PP ), 700 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the inclusion of statistical data on dating violence in the Annual Internal Security Report ( PS ), 705 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government work towards the resizing of assumptions in the application of the legal regime applicable to the prevention of domestic violence and the protection and assistance of its victims ( PAN) and 710 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends the training of security forces for the protection of victims of domestic violence ( BE) and 714 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Strengthening measures to combat domestic violence ( The Greens ). in the second point, we will proceed to the discussion, in general, of draft law No 291/ XIII ( 1. ( a ) — Conditions of health and safety at work in the security forces and services ( PCP ), together with draft resolution No 706 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote the improvement of mental health conditions, in the working environment, in the security forces and services, by creating a programme to promote the psychological resilience of operators (NAP). of the third point is the discussion of draft resolutions Nos 602 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government combat school dropout in higher education ( PSD ), 696 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to combat dropout in higher education ( PCP ), 698 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote measures to combat dropout in higher education ( CDS-PP ), 699 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government study on failure and abandonment in higher education to better define policies to combat these phenomena ( PS ), 707 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government strengthen support measures for higher education students as a form of combating school dropout ( NAP) and 709 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Measures to deepen social action mechanisms and to combat school dropout in higher education ( BE ). of the fourth point is the assessment of draft resolutions Nos 572 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Multi-annual plan for the end of propines in public higher education institutions ( BE) and 692 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends the end of the tips in public higher education ( CFP ). We will also discuss, in general, the projects of lein.os 366 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — The first amendment to Law No 68 / 2014 of 29 August which approved the legal regime applicable to swimmers throughout the national territory with regard to the supervision of activities in public use pools ( PS ), and 147 / XIII ( 1 ). ( a ) — Establish access to educational rights for swimmers and rescuers ( BE ). Bill No. 433 / XIII ( 2 ) will be discussed in general. ( a ) — Amendment to the Electoral Law of the Bodies of Local Authorities, approved by the Organic Law No 1 / 2001 of 14 August and amended by the Organic Laws No 5 -A / 2001 of 26 November, 3 / 2005 of 29 August, 3 / 2010 of 15 December, and 1 / 2011 of 30 November, and by Law No 72 -A / 2015 of 23 July ( PS and PSD ), which does not have time for discussion. Finally, there will be a scheduled vote at 12 noon. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 33 minutes.]]
