ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, the session is open. [[It was 15 hours and 10 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Authorities please open the galleries. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the first item on the agenda generally include discussion of the proposed law No 97/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Defines the sanction scheme applicable to the development of collaborative financing activity. To open the debate and present the bill, Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u2	Mr President, allow me, being the first time I address the plenary session of the Assembly of the Republic, through you, Exa, to congratulate all the Members and all the Members. Members of the various parliamentary groups. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Government today submits a bill regulating Law No 102 / 2015, which approved the Legal Scheme for Collaborative Financing, commonly referred to as crowdfunding. This collaborative financing takes four forms: donation, reward, capital and loan. According to what was approved here in the Assembly of the Republic, it was necessary to create the penalty framework and to define the criminal and counter-order national regime of this collaborative financing system. in this sense, we present this bill, which creates precisely this sanctioning regime, both for the violation of duties contained in the Law, and for the regulation itself. The choice we have made is to consider that counter-ordinary coverage is sufficient and adequate for this type of illegality and therefore, from a criminal point of view, no proposal is made. with regard to capital financing and loan financing, the option of the sanctioning scheme is to follow what is contained in the Securities Code, because this is the result of the fact that CMVM (the Securities Market Committee) is the competent authority for monitoring and instructing the proceedings in this type of financing. On the other hand, with regard to the sanctioning regime of funding through donation and reward, what we are following — since we are talking about activities that are controlled by ASAE (the Food and Economic Safety Authority ) — is an anticipation of what is being done at the level of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, i.e. a systematization of the system of economic infringements is under way. It is to this extent that the framework of the typification of illegals and also the typification of the sanctioning framework is proposed. Finally, ladies and gentlemen. Members, what is proposed is that the evaluation of this scheme can be done after five years, so that we can then adapt the law to the evolution of this type of financing. I am at the disposal of a question which they consider appropriate to put. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u3	Mr Pedro Delgado Alves of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u4	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs and Tax Affairs: It is with great pleasure that the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group welcomes the Government's presentation of this legislative initiative, to the extent that it is effectively the conclusion of a legislative procedure which began in Parliament at the previous legislative session, at the initiative of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, and that it was fortunately able to provide virtually unanimous support, with at least a very broad consensus within this House, and which, therefore, allowed the implementation of this new regime and the creation of a clear legal framework to ensure reliability and credibility for those who dedicate themselves to this activity. But as I said, this regime was incomplete because it was lacking precisely the sanctions regime, a reality which the Assembly of the Republic at the time recognized how it should be more appropriately triggered by a legislative initiative of the Government. from there that today we can somehow complete what we started to build in 2015, offering additional elements of reliability to those who seek to invest using collaborative funding platforms. Indeed, much of what is at stake is about ensuring the knowledge of investors, who in many cases are not equipped with technical knowledge associated with the most complex products and necessarily need not only a follow-up that protects them in this dimension of investors, but also elements that, through the sanctioning framework, have more credibility and robustness a regime that, moreover, has proved positive and has known, both between us and in the European context, a very significant increase. That is why we should welcome this initiative, because it brings us together with the legislation which, within the European framework, has developed more intensively. This is an opportunity to make correct and minor corrections to the law then adopted in 2015, it is also an opportunity for, after two years of its application, to make those surgical changes which have already been imposed, but also - and therefore we also welcome the Government - to introduce a mechanism and a subsequent evaluation procedure, ending the five years of its validity, in order, in fact, to suit and ensure that the answers remain the most suitable to which this instrument represents not only an advantage to the economy, but also to provide assurances and reliability to consumers, users and all those who intend to use this platform. We are therefore obviously open to debate. I take advantage of the fact that I have forgotten to do so in the beginning, to greet the Secretary of State for Tax Affairs in which he is your first intervention. It is with great pleasure that we have the opportunity to resume this topic in this forum, which I would like to say once again, in the past we have extended parliamentary support which we hope will be produced again in this debate, at this headquarters and at this time. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u5	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the Bureau is awaiting registration. [[Pause.]] Mr Carlos Silva of the PSD Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members: Let us be clear — collaborative funding is a very simple form of fundraising, whether it is a company, a social, artistic, cultural or sporting event. The aim is to enable good ideas, innovative projects, value-added projects that boil in our society to become reality through fund-raising, based on work, with an electronic platform. Crowdfunding has enabled companies to launch and viability, create and safeguard jobs, channel resources that are essential to the economy. in the context of startups, has been a great booster, has allowed access to financial resources, because in the case of small and medium-sized enterprises, traditional financing models are quite complex. Crodwfunding works in a simple and transparent way. The 2015 legislation clearly defined a set of fundamental parameters for the performance of the various parties. What we have here today — so I said at the beginning of my speech, let us be clear — is an excessive density of the regime. in our view, this should not occur because the trend will be to create obstacles to the functioning of an activity that has proved extremely positive for the functioning of the economy, particularly in the launch of new companies. But we have more: the present government diploma, the cover to ensure security in transactions and to provide the system of credibility and reliability for all actors, has established a sanction framework that is no more than an attack by this Government of the Socialist Party on the companies of the sector, an ideological attack on the left to all what are business initiatives, an attack on everything that is conducive to wealth and well-being. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u7	It's not new, it's not just in this case that this happens. In this case, it is in the local housing, it is scandalously in the proposal for a State budget, which is under discussion in Parliament. Even today, we have heard Mr President of the CIP (Employment Confederation of Portugal) say that the government has turned its back on companies and entrepreneurs. The Government continues to fail to comply with the IRC reform, will not continue to relieve the IRC initiated by the previous government, it maintains and worsens in 2018 the context costs created in 2016 and 2017, in particular with fuels, the « Mortagua tax » on buildings and seal tax. The Socialist Party and its left-wing coalition, in all that moves, greedy of tax revenue so that it can compensate for the strategic mistakes that are being made in the country in the field of investment uptake and job creation, does not forgive: it creates one more tax, one more tax, and, not satisfied, in a sector that works properly, without registering complaints by promoters and investors, such as this one, it has even created a severe and disproportionate sanction framework in relation to the investment levels in question. Even it seems that these entrepreneurs and their platforms have become powerful bankers, so it is necessary to discipline them because we can be faced with dangerous financial intermediation or brokerage activities, which does not entirely correspond to the truth. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u8	Mr Paulino Ascenção, from the Left Block Parliamentary Group, has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u9	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, Secretary of State for Tax Affairs, I welcome you for your first presence in plenary. When you hear the PSD Member, it seems that we are again faced with a huge increase in taxes. I don't think that's the case. This initiative reinforces the rules and sets penalties for raising funding for investment projects to the general public, which is a way of diversifying the funding channels available in the economy and a need, given the structural dependence on banking debt, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. The crises have affected the financial groups and weakened their confidence in the bank and their credit capacity; people are "scaled" with alternative instruments, including those that pass through the capital markets, after the scandals of the bank and companies of the groups they headed; the government plans point to strengthening the market role in financing companies. But these plans can go fat, taking into account these conditions. Collaborative funding or crowdfunding is an innovative instrument that has been stated in the developed countries, but there are other instruments to which Portugal is also late in relation to its partners. For example, I speak of credit cooperatives, which in Europe have a very important share of credit to small and medium-sized enterprises and which in Portugal are referred to a ghetto because the law only allows them to act in the agricultural sector. On the one hand, it is discrimination against banks, which are organised in the form of capitalists, and it is a waste because this sector has available resources, it has ratios of solidity comfortably within the limits and the agricultural sector does not have the ability to drain this credit grant facility. Turning back to the theme of this initiative, that of collaborative funding, it is positive to define rules for activity, of course. however, the rules are defined, but it does not establish an authority to supervise, to monitor the lending operations, because the MVC is only referred to the role of registering the platforms where these operations will operate. The question that I put to you is the following, Secretary of State: do you think that this architecture gives sufficient security assurances to people regarding these financing operations? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u10	Mr Miguel Tiago of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u11	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members: It was created in 2015, if I am not mistaken, the Legal Scheme for Collaborative Financing, which, as already mentioned, has been extended support. In addition, the CFP voted in favour of this scheme, which contained a set of obligations and duties on the part of the co-financing agents—both those who financed and those who were hired—who did not have a consequence in the event of non-compliance. Therefore, there is a need for a sanctioning regime which, after all, fills a failure or, better, an empty one that was still created by the poor age of the legislation in force. It is strange that Mr Carlos Silva and the PSD feel that there is no need for a sanction regime for a set of obligations that are already defined but for which there is no penalty in the event of non-compliance. In other words, Mr. Carlos Silva thinks: "Well, as this deals with malt that moves with money, they can easily violate the obligations that are established that nothing happens to them! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ” Currently, in the law, although obligations are established there, they do not refer to sanctions. Therefore, an obligation without a penalty, in practice, is a null obligation, has no effect. This regime which is now proposed to us, to give the opinion of the Portuguese Communist Party, seems to us to be balanced because the sanctions are proportional to the anticipated non-compliances, because they are also different depending on the quality of the agent—if he is a natural or legal person—and it also seems to us to be adjusted the communication and monitoring regime of the CMVM and the adjustment also made to the allocation of supervisory powers to the ESAE. The diploma, as much as the Government has informed us, was the subject of an opinion by a number of entities, of which the competent authorities but also associations acting in the sector. However, these documents have not been given to the Assembly of the Republic, but I think they could complement and contribute so that the debate could be richer, either in general, or the one that is still missing and will certainly have to win with the sending of these contributions. One final note: within the so-called crowdfunding, collaborative funding there are several types of activity. We do not fully understand what the « sector» is, as Mr Carlos Silva said. But there are many sectors involved and often up to the financial sector and things that are not as inorganic and as simple as they seem. It is therefore very important that there is a sanctioning regime, that there is a supervision, but Mr Secretary of State and Mr. Members of the government, this is more sanctions less sanctions, it is like everything else: it is of little value if there is no supervision. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u12	Mr Hélder Amaral of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group spoke for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u13	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In fact, during the discussion of Law No 102 / 2015 this matter had a broad consensus on the part of all banks and I think that consensus should not be broken. Crowdfunding, or collaborative funding, is an important tool for supporting entrepreneurship, has always been considered as such, and is also an important tool for generating private initiative and job creation and, of course, is an important tool for financing, marketing and validation of many startups, but it is not limited to that. I know that in the discussion of the law, in 2015, he went beyond the idea that this was another tool for a necessary entrepreneurship. But he wasn't just about that. There was indeed a crisis, there was difficulty in financing, but it is more than that and must be looked at as something that is more than that. This instrument can also serve as support for scientific entrepreneurship. In Portugal, as we know, our innovation, our entrepreneurship has a very high mortality rate. And why? Because they are usually ideas born in incubators, in startups, in many universities, ideas that seem to have even sought in the market, but which then fail due to lack of access to this funding. These various modalities that crowdfunding assumes have always led us to regard it as a good instrument. But it must be maintained with these characteristics, obviously preserving its simplicity. at the same time, we realize that this instrument could fail, if it did not have reliability, credibility and transparency. That is why Article 22. that of Law No 102 / 2015 determined that the counter-ordinary and criminal regimes applicable to this matter were defined in their own diploma. For this reason, we find the proposed law to be good, and it seems to us that we need to take some care so that this sanctioning regime and everything that is here does not, in essence, harm or limit what was a will expressed by all the benches, to create another innovative instrument, an instrument that could be, himself, business captor angels, i.e., entrepreneurs who invest in seed capital projects, in order to have some model, as the crowdfunding itself says, of counterparts that pass not only by mere financial application. Mr Secretary of State, there is here, however, a matter in which we have some doubts, but of course we can work on the speciality, which is that of collaborative financing of capital, which seems to be limited to financial management instruments. This was not the idea that was underlying the first discussion of the Law. It was necessary to find, in the CMVM and ASEA, in the various models that are typified, organizations that could monitor and assess and prevent some abuses in this area, but it was important to keep a margin here, which I would not call informality because it is necessary to guarantee such reliability, so that people with capital could look at this investment model in the same way as they look at stock market applications or any other instrument. Therefore, if we do not have good sense and want to limit much, we end up harming and ultimately calling into question what was a sympathetic initiative, a reasonable instrument, which can in fact bring to the private initiative market, to the job creation market, a set of startups, a set of entrepreneurs, who have financial difficulties, and we withdraw that same capacity, exactly where it fails, which is in the capacity to finance, in the ability to reach the market, in the ability to grow, in the ability to find other investors in other mechanisms than in the financial system.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u14	Please finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u15	That is why we need to be careful about this initiative. With regard to everything else, we will be available to work these matters better with good sense and fairness. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u16	For a second intervention, Mr Pedro Delgado Alves, of the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u17	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen: I would like to welcome the remarks made by the honourable Members. Members Hélder Amaral, of the CDS-PP, Miguel Tiago, of the PCP, and Paulino Ascension, of the Left Block, because they stressed the importance of having a sanctioning framework, which was also foreseen in the initial version of the diploma. It is a little perplexing what we have heard from Mr Carlos Silva because the PSD not only voted and endorsed the proposal for an amendment to the replacement text which was based on the final diploma approved, as it voted in the overall final vote — at both times — expressly states the need for a sanctioning regime. Moreover, in the original version, which is in effect, a counter-order and criminal sanctions regime is provided for, and the government only presents a counter-order scheme because it found that counter-order protection was sufficient. Therefore, it is even less than what the PSD had requested in 2015 when it voted favourably and presented a replacement project, in the specialty, and which now seems to be a severe regime that comes to attack and undo the sector. Not at all, sir! It is what is needed, that is what CMVM, in 2015, said it should have been approved soon in 2015, but that under technical conditions we have not been able to do, and it is something that the sector itself claimed. Why? Because this guarantees'separating the wheat from the juicy', separating the entities that behave with trust, who properly inform their customers and who give assurances of reliability and robustness to the system, from those who, not doing so, obviously must be sanctioned, as in any economic activity, because the main objective, I think, is to ensure that platforms can develop their activity on the one hand, but also simultaneously ensure that we protect consumers and also end users. I believe that all of these interventions go this way and I hope that we can, in our specialized capacity, and in collaboration with the government, create here an appropriate, sustainable, balanced regime that continues to ensure that crowdfunding is an additional tool for the growth of the economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u18	Mr. Secretary of State for Tax Affairs has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u19	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I should like to note that consensus on this subject should be the focus of this debate. And I would like to take this opportunity to acknowledge the suggestion made by Mr Miguel Tiago, who seems very relevant to me, of the Government to be able to bring to the Assembly of the Republic all its opinions on this matter so that the Assembly of the Republic can now, in the field of expertise, also make the assessment that the Government itself has made in drafting this regulation. As Mr Hélder Amaral said, and I would like to stress, what we are doing is giving reliability, credibility and transparency to a new form of funding, which is very important and is not new, because that is what was defined in the law that was passed in the Assembly of the Republic. And, as Mr Tiago has said, we must also ensure not only the sanctioning framework but also the supervision framework. That is why I note Mr Paulino Ascenção's concern and I want to say that our concern was precisely that CMVM and ASAE could, in their funding, have the appropriate tools to carry out that same supervision. Finally, by calling on Mr Carlos Silva and the PSD to re-enter the consensus that exists in this Parliament on these matters.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u20	Mr. Secretary of State, please conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u21	I conclude now, Mr President. I am sure that in the specialty, Mr Carlos Silva and the PSD Parliamentary Group will have the opportunity to improve a system that has been approved by all and to verify that what we are doing is to comply with a law of the Assembly of the Republic. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u22	Mrs. Members, the Bureau no longer registers, so the general debate on the proposal for a law No 97/ XIII ( 3 ) is closed. ( a). Before we proceed with the order of business, I would ask Mrs Emília Santos to announce her file to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u23	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, you have entered the Bureau, and Mr President, the motion of censure No 1 / XIII ( 3 ) was admitted. ( a ) — because of government failures in the 2017 tragic fires ( CDS-PP ).
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u24	In general, we looked at Bill No. 98/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amend the arrangements for the allocation of public water securities in relation to existing untitled situations. To present the bill, I call on the Minister for the Environment to welcome him.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u25	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The public maritime domain is a good of the State and its occupation is, by definition, temporary and lacking a specific title. And because it happens that the State is sometimes interested in the public domain being occupied for reasons such as security, support for tourism activity, renewable energy production, these occupations must always be preceded by competitive procedure. But the law itself has exceptions and that's what we're going to talk about. The public discussion of the National Strategy for Conservation of Nature and Biodiversity has already ended, which enshrines the firm will to value traditional activities in areas protected by these being creators of biodiversity. Sometimes these activities, including dwellings of their professionals, are located in the public water domain. It is of the greatest interest and social justice that, in the case of consolidated fishing agglomerates, the principle of the competition is to award licences for an extended period of time for the dwellings of families linked to traditional activities. This principle, which is general and abstract, is based on the concrete example of the Culatra cluster. What is proposed is in accordance with the current POOC(Coastal Orla Management Plan), with the approved and approved RIP (Intervention and Requalification Project ) approved by this Government and makes sense for the requalification intervention of the public space, whose competition for the firm is ongoing. The adoption of this amendment to the Law allows, immediately, to resolve a concrete issue in the Culatra agglomeration, honoring a commitment of years that no one has ever called into question, but also, to date, no one has ever resolved. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u26	Mr Paulo Sá, from the CFP Parliamentary Group, has the floor to request clarifications.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister of the Environment, the Government's proposal provides for the allocation of licences for a period which, including the initial licence and its renewals, may not exceed a total of 30 years. But Mr Minister, this was not the commitment the Government made to the population of the Culatra core in the Formosa River. The Government had promised to issue licences for 30 years, renewable and transmissible to descendants, provided the fishing activity was maintained. I therefore ask the Minister, as he justifies not fulfilling the promise made to the Latin Americans. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u28	In reply, Mr Minister for the Environment has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr Paulo Sá, the issue of renewal of licences for a period of 30 years is resolved in the proposal submitted by the Government. The renewal of licences at the end of 30 years, whether for themselves or for their descendants, being of course possible, should not be an automatic procedure. Domain areas are of great environmental sensitivity, as it is impossible to predict today that traditional activities will continue after three decades. Moreover, because the licenses are passed on case by case, housing the housing. The Government sees with great naturality that, by 30 years of age, the activities and the same environmental conditions that exist today, licences should be extended. This assessment should be made at the time, and of course the bill, which is here in the House, can be adjusted to make it explicit. This decision will be for the Members of Parliament and for the Members of the Commission. Ladies and gentlemen, with the assurance that, I repeat, an automatism thought of within 30 years seems to us to be a precipitate. The forecast, for example, of a new portfolio, assessing the conditions that will exist at the time, seems very normal if, from now to 30 years, the activity is maintained with the robustness that it has today and the environmental conditions are also those that are today.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u30	Mr Luís Graça, from the PS Parliamentary Group, has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u31	Mr President, Mr Minister and other members of the Government, Mrs Deputies and others. Members: This bill aims to deal more appropriately with exceptional situations in the water public domain, situations which, because of their specificity, have not yet found a virtuous and just solution in the legal framework. Of course, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group wishes to commend the Government for presenting this bill, because it also meets with what has been the various recommendations of the PS Parliamentary Group in recent years, and in particular in the last two years, here approved the last one by unanimity of this House. This is a melindarous issue and must be treated with clamps, since we are talking about the water public domain, something that is everyone's and is not able to be alienated. But it is also true that in the country there are situations of communities that have built not only their houses but also their lives, and that is what this law, today, aims to answer, solving these situations with justice and equity. The Law of the Republic is a general law, but no one has doubts, nor reading the preamble of the bill, of the Government, that there is a concrete response to the struggle a community has been fighting over the years and that it is the community of the island of Culatra, where 377 families live, there are 80 local craft fishing vessels and 8 coastal fishing vessels. It is a community with life and feeling of belonging and that, even today, despite a existence of over 200 years, it had no legal framework to see its dwellings with a license and legalized—it was an illegal community. So the first thing we must do is welcome the government to make this legislative effort to make Culatra — at least Culatra and others of similar characteristics that exist in the country — a full, legal community in the eyes of all Portuguese people. That is the issue that must be stressed today. The Socialist Party's proposal adopted by this House was in the sense of the Culatra RIP to be approved — which has already been approved by the Government; it was in the sense that works for the re-qualification of the public space have already been launched; and it was in the sense of this law that it was changed to assign securities to fishermen for 30 years, renewable and transmissible to children — and that is what this bill allows the government to do, according to a gate that will be created. Mr Minister, what I want to say to you is that the Socialist Party, after this struggle, will make an effort, also in the field of expertise, to make clear, of all points of view, without any edges, that this commitment will be carried out with this law. The Culatrens, the fishermen, will be entitled to their licenses for 30 years, renewable and transmissible to their children, as I said. What I hope is that the Culatra community, with the Government's efforts and the effort of this Parliament, will symbolically alter the Day of the Island, leaving it no longer the day of the boycott, i.e. of the fight against the State which does not hear, to the day of the issue of the first legalization license of its houses, i.e. the day of hope realized in the law. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u32	Mr John Vasconcelos, Parliamentary Group of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u33	Mr. President, Mr. Minister for the Environment, Mr. State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs and the Planning of the Territory and Conservation of Nature, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. Members: The amendment proposed by the Government will allow for the legalization of the first houses in consolidated residential fisheries centres, such as the Culatra population core, and collective use equipment on the island of Culatra. With the new rules it will be possible to implement the Culatra Intervention and Requalification Project, an ancient claim of its populations that the Left Block has always supported. in the background, it is to recognize the right to housing of the fishing community of Culatra. The approval of the Culatra RIP, benefiting about 700 people from this community, could even be considered historical and this was only possible due to the new correlation of forces existing in the Assembly of the Republic. With the Intervention and Requalification Project and with this bill, finally — it is expected — fishermen, vivairists and mariners of the Culatra core will be entitled to the issuance of permits for the legalization of their dwellings, thus seeing their living conditions improved. It will thus be possible to fulfil its claim more than 200 years after the first inhabitants have begun to set up the fishing centre of Culatra and 12 years after the approval of the Plan of Orla Orla Costeira Vilamoura-Vila Real de Santo António. however, there is one aspect with which we disagree, which has to do with the renewal of the licences for use only for 30 years, without the right to renewal after that period. That is why we do not understand the speech of the Member of the PS Luís Graça. In any case, we stress that this Government proposal is a very positive step towards the Culatra population core. Another situation has to do with the remaining housing cores of the island of Culatra, the nuclei of the Hangars and the Farol. It is also necessary to resolve its situation, preventing new demolition of dwellings, and it must be borne in mind that the former government, PSD / CDS, was planning to tear down more than 400 houses.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u34	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u35	That's true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u36	It is necessary to comply, as soon as possible, with the other points of the Resolution of the Assembly of the Republic which was adopted in October 2016 and which had several contributions from the Block of the Left, which recommends to the Government the recognition and requalification of the population nuclei of the barrier islands of the Formosa River. One of these points is that the Government resumes the Plan of Orla Costeira Vilamoura-Vila Real de Santo António, recognizing the existence of the historical nuclei of the Hangars and the Farol. It is necessary to eliminate the diversity of criteria involving the different population centres of the island of Culatra. It is necessary to restore peace and justice to all the populations of the slums, populations that can always rely on the support of the Left Block. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u37	Mr José Carlos Barros of the PSD Parliamentary Group speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u38	Mr President, Minister of the Environment, Secretary of State for the Planning of the Territory and Conservation of Nature, Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. Members: This bill is addressed to the specific case of the Culatra core, giving the necessary framework for the legalization of the situations of first residence. This proposal obviously deserves our agreement, since the PSD has always defended this path, in fact, in the general framework of the Culatra Intervention and Requalification Project, which in 2015 was technically completed and consensualized with the previous government. We will therefore not leave to vote in favour, what we will do with conviction, as you well know the Culatrenians who are present here today in the galleries, which very warmly welcome. But, Minister, there are things in this process that we cannot but consider surprising and worrying: from the outset, the lack of clarification by the Government of the entire process associated with urban occupation of the slums. Its Ministry continues without any documents, no strategic plan framework for the general process of requalification, when they were created by its government and by the political forces that support it so much expectations for people in relation to the other urban centers of the river. The Minister today brings the debate to a bill which considers the Culatra case an exception and we agree with the recitals. However, Mr Minister, the parties that support your Government have approved a recommendation from the Assembly of the Republic in a completely different way one year ago, considering that the requalification process should continue exactly the same in all the population centres of the slums and not making the distinction, in particular, that this bill is made, between what are, on the one hand, holiday houses and, on the other hand, fishermen's houses, houses of first habitation. What answer does the Minister now give to these people, to whom promises have been made for which no framework is given? And what answer does it give to the parties that support it, when they publicly defend one thing and the Minister presents you with another completely different one? That is what we have just heard being mentioned, particularly by the Left Block. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u39	As for environmental requalification, it is also damaged by these contradictions and by the absence of a clear plan of action. I give an example, one of the dredgings: the dredging of the Fuzeta, which is a priority—there is a recommendation by the Assembly of the Republic in this direction last year—it was to have been carried out in 2016. Because we're almost at the end of 2017 and the public contest has not even been launched. And even if the competition is launched this year, the deadlines to the job would make it impossible whenever the work was done before the 2018 bathing season, which means, in this example—because it is only one example—a minimum of three years lost, in a legislature that has four. In conclusion, and with regard specifically to the proposed law under discussion, I reiterate that we deserve our agreement and that we will not fail to vote in favour, although, in the field of specialty, we do not cease to seek the guarantee of transmissibility of titles to descent, which does not seem to us to be guaranteed in this text. [[PSD applause.]] [[Meanwhile, he took the presidency of Vice-President Teresa Caeiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u40	You have the floor, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the CDS-PP, Mr Álvaro Castello-Branco for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u41	Madam President, Minister for the Environment, Mrs. State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs and the Planning of the Territory and Conservation of Nature, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. Members: Today, with this proposal, the Government intends to amend the arrangements for the allocation of securities for use in the water public domain, in relation to existing situations which are not entitled. This scheme, which is already 2007, states that the allocation of licences for the private use of public water resources depends in principle on competitive procedure and that such a licence is not generally renewed. The amendment now proposed aims to safeguard certain situations, referring to the explanation of reasons for this bill directly to the special case of the Culatra core, in that it — and I quote the preamble of the proposal — « constitutes a fishing agglomerated with historical roots and clear evidence of an ancient occupation and which has a social, economic and cultural status worthy of recognition and appreciation, confirmed by the applicable territorial management instruments ». Thus, Mr Minister, with this proposal, the Government intends to regularise the situation, with the issuance of the necessary licences for the use of water resources in the first house and in consolidated residential centres which as such are recognised by the office of the members of the responsible Government. This proposal also seeks to ensure that the issuance of the respective private-use certificates, in the case of the Culatra core, is not dependent on competition and that the possibility of renewal of the licences issued is enshrined, thus ensuring minimum employment stability and providing for a maximum of 30 years for the allowed occupations, considering the initial licence and their renewals. In addition, a transitional period is established in order to allow the regularization of the currently untitled situations, with the exception of fine application for cases where the application for the title of use is submitted within six months of the publication of the portal that recognizes the occupations concerned. The themes related to the Formosa River, particularly with regard to actions for requalification and recovery, have been, as we all know, often debated in this Parliament, in particular due to its social, cultural and economic relevance. Despite this, Mr Minister, I would like to say that the CDS believes that, on the one hand, there is a need for regularization and the framework of situations which should in fact be regularised and safeguarded, as is the case with situations in Culatra, on the other hand, and since the law is general and abstract, we will be alert to abuses that may result from this process, with regard to the preservation of the environmental and landscape heritage, not only of that region but of our whole country, Portugal. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u42	For an intervention on behalf of the CFP, Mr Paulo Sá has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u43	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Minister for the Environment: The lagoon system of the Formosa River is of great importance from the economic, social and cultural point of view, being closely linked to the life and traditions of the local people. Subsequent governments have sought to expel local communities from the slums of the Formosa River to deliver this valuable natural heritage to the great private interests for them to explore it for their benefit. The PCP rejects this path and defends the recognition of the population nuclei of the barrier islands of the Formosa River and the translation of this recognition into the various planning and planning instruments of the territory. In fact, the CFP presented a proposal to the Assembly of the Republic in October 2016, which was approved by the majority of Members. Despite this approval, the Government has not yet recognized the existence of the population nuclei of the barrier islands of the Formosa River, namely those of the Farol, the Hangars and the Faro Beach. As for the core of the Culatra, whose recognition was already enshrined in the POOC Burgau-Vila Moura, the government is moving towards the allocation of titles of occupation of the water public domain, but only for part of the dwellings and for a limited period of time, not definitively solving the problem. The CFP reaffirms that it is necessary to find a definitive solution for the population nuclei of the barrier islands of the Formosa river: it is necessary to recognize the existence of these nuclei and to translate this recognition into the law; it is necessary to approve intervention and requalification projects for all nuclei; it is necessary to carry out these projects, providing funds for the purpose; it is necessary to support economic activities carried out in the Formosa river, namely fishing and seafood activities; it is necessary to requalify the lagoon system of the Formosa river and to implement measures of protection of the coastal shoreline. In short, it is necessary to affirm the right to live and produce in the Formosa River. This is what the government is slow to do, and this is what the CFP advocates. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u44	There are no more Members' registrations, the Minister for the Environment has the floor to close the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u45	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: What is the government doing in the Formosa River? 8, 5 million euros are involved in investments! Mr José Carlos Barros, the Fuzeta competition has already been launched; the Armona competition is already for the Court of Auditors' opinion on dredgings ; the Faro bridge competition is also for the Court of Auditors ; the Tavira cais, as you know, is in competition ; the Avenue 5 October, in Olhão, is beginning works... i.e. what we have done translates into an investment which, I repeat, exceeds EUR 8, 5 million in the Formosa River. A lot has been said about the RIP, in particular the PSD Member here said that one day he defended it but did not carry it out. In fact, it was us who did it. Who inherited a poorly pointed application to the PO SEUR (Operational Programme Sustainability and Efficiency in Resource Use) for requalification of the core of Culatra it was us and we also refused it, having been presented and approved already by the Operational Programme of the Algarve. Therefore, this is even the time to make the decision to pass the licenses of use, those which go up to 30 years and which, I repeat, can and should certainly be renewed if, at the end of those 30 years, the environmental conditions of such a fragile area and the social conditions of an activity that is not always growing, as is not in the Formosa River, they come to stay. I insist that this should not be an automaticism, but it is obvious that this is a wish of the Government and that, in our view, this possibility is very open in the bill that we present here today. And, of course, we would like to thank the Assembly of the Republic for making it more explicit if that were the intention of the Members. Ladies and gentlemen. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u46	The second point of our agenda is thus concluded. We will continue with the general discussion of Bill No 96/ XIII ( 3 ). (a) — Amend the Code of Criminal Procedure, allowing the electronic notification of lawyers and informal defenders. To present the bill, I have the floor of the Under-Secretary of State and Justice.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u47	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: All international studies indicate that one of the most important aspects of the difference in high-performance judicial systems lies in a rational organization of work with emphasis on simplification and dematerialization of acts and procedures and in unimplacable attention to details, with a view to eliminating redundancy and entropies in the process. over the last few years, Portugal has made important progress in the computerization of the courts, as, in fact, I think it is the knowledge of all those who work and of those who are here in this House. It was a gradual evolution, led by several governments, at the pace of the technological progress of Portuguese society itself, marked by advances and some rare setbacks, as is normal in any pioneering effort, but with a well-defined direction in the sense of greater presence of information technologies at the service of justice. The amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure that we are proposing today end one more step on this path towards more agile, efficient and speedier justice. With this proposal for a law, we intend that the general rule on court notifications to lawyers and informal defenders will be made electronically through Citius, using the postal form only when this type of notification is not possible. This is a simple amendment, but it will allow the system to allocate more than 25 000 hours of work each year from the officers of justice, who will thus be released for other tasks of greater added value and which will contribute more to rapid and quality processing. This amendment will also enable the Ministry of Justice to save taxpayers about EUR 1, EUR 7 million per year in postal correspondence, in addition to time and money that will allow lawyers to save. In addition, and with regard to the notifications that continue to be made by post, we intend to allow the courts to use automated printing, wrapping and dispatch solutions, like what is already happening in the jurisdiction of administrative and tax courts. Here, too, we intend to release a substantial number of resources which today are spent without any need to print, double and envelope notifications for the proper functioning of justice. I therefore trust that this new step towards more efficient justice will be to welcome the support of this House as a whole. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u48	Mr José Manuel Pureza has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u49	Mr President, Mrs Under-Secretary of State and Justice, Mr State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs Members: The technological modernisation of the functioning of the courts is, of course, an imperative for the withdrawal of atavic procedures which are not justified. From 2017 onwards, with Ordinance No 170, the electronic processing regime of criminal processes was determined from the trial phase and also in the counter-ordinations and processes of protection and promotion of children and young people in danger. In fact, the electronic notification is already made for the notification of lawyers and advocates appointed for civil proceedings. However, the notification by the judicial secretaries to defenders in criminal proceedings so far continues to be carried out in paper and mail and does not justify it, as it is obvious that, as the National Data Protection Commission warns, the integrity and authenticity of documents and the security of their processing is absolutely safeguarded. Therefore, on our part, the proposal that the Government is putting forward deserves sympathy and approval, and then we can of course contribute — and we would like to do so — in order to fine-tune a detail or other which is understood as necessary. I would just like to mention a small point, which, moreover, the Secretary of State intended to stress also in the presentation of the proposal, which is the reference that the explanatory statement makes to the fact that, with this technological transformation or the transformation of procedures, 25 000 hours of work, corresponding to the annual work of 16 employees, and to reduce costs by around EUR 1.7 million for Portuguese taxpayers. Madam Secretary of State, on our part, we want to make two comments. First of all, that this measure, the savings that this can mean in the annual work of employees, does not serve to justify the chronic lack of judicial officials that the system suffers. Secondly, it is very important that savings be made for the public record, but if the costs of these processes are reduced, then, the Secretary of State, another reason for the judicial costs also to be reduced, because if the objective cost of the proceedings is lower, of course the citizens have legitimate reasons to understand that judicial costs should also be lower. And both the Secretary and all this House know that this is one of the most important aspects to ensure effective access to justice for all. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u50	On behalf of the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Filipe Neto Brandão has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u51	Mr President, Mrs Under-Secretary of State and Justice, Mr State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs Members: With this proposal for a law, it is intended, and very well, to extend also to the criminal proceedings the possibility of notifying lawyers and also to advocates appointed through an electronic platform. It is, as the explanatory statement points out, a question of compliance with what is reflected in the XXI Government Programme, where it is noted that the aim is to apply the use of computer processing tools to all jurisdictions, in this case to extend them to criminal jurisdiction. Now, we know that, as long as the system does not collapse, and it is good that we are today talking about Citius, at a time when it works well and not as in a recent past when it collapsed —, working well, the advantages of dematerialization are undeniable and, as the Secretary of State pointed out, these are of two main magnitude orders: the first one, the increase in the speed and agility of the process, improving the work of all forensic professionals; the second one, a relevant reduction of costs, about 2 million euros, which will be saved in postal mail, in addition to those 25 000 hours a year that will be saved. And, as Mr. José Manuel Pureza has just mentioned, these hours will not be reduced to work, but they will be a reallocation for a more productive, less bureaucratic and therefore more useful work, which is also an unequivocal advantage. The diploma is also used to amend Article 13. the, allowing the dispatch and envelope automatic, there is also, unequivocally, an increase in speed and, as the explanatory statement points out, when in force for all jurisdictions, there is a very significant saving of 300 000 hours of work, a very relevant value. Therefore, as the Secretary of State has mentioned, I believe that the House will applaud and unanimously approve this measure. But if I may, this question leads me to do a little judicial archaeology to congratulate me on the evolution of mentalities that has taken place since 2009, when a study by the Association of the Portuguese Judges' Union reported that 75% of the investigated judges considered that dematerialization of processes was unnecessary, did not bring visible advantages, seriously damaged the efficiency of the judicial response and also, no doubt! , for 46, 5 % of respondents appeared or were aggravated vision problems with the use of computers. It is clear that we can only smile at these comments today. The truth is that Portuguese justice is today a justice with computerized means that shade the rest of the European countries. Madam Secretary of State, of course, the adoption of measures such as this, which I welcome, will only benefit Portuguese justice. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u52	by PSD, you have the floor to Mrs Sara Madruga from Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u53	Mr President, Mrs Under-Secretary of State and Justice, Mr State Secretary for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs and Mrs Members: The electronic conduct of procedural notifications in criminal proceedings by the judicial secretaries was a long-awaited thing by judicial operators. We therefore consider the objectives of this initiative quite valid. The PSD has always defended the dematerialization and simplification of acts and processes in justice. The PSD has always defended the principles of speed, modernization, transparency and savings of management resources. Ladies and gentlemen. Members: We also contribute to this path and to this revolution of the modernization of the administration of justice. We still remember the time when demands and procedural pieces were delivered in paper in the secretaries of the courts. With the 1996 reform, they were able to be delivered by the CTT, then came the fax until midnight, the registered e-mail, and finally the Citius. There is no doubt that this computer application revolutionized the administration of justice, allowing for faster, easier and safer processing for judges, lawyers and judicial officials. And, no less important, it has enabled greater transparency in the process of processing and justice, as the processes now become available and accessible at all times. There were times when this did not happen and when the process was now completed, it was not now. With Citius everything changed and for the better.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u54	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u55	however, the Secretary of State, the practice of procedural acts is only one of the most visible aspects of the system. There are still many archaic aspects in the administration of justice that need to be improved. The places and processes of justice still retain an ancient matrix, shaped for more than a century and a half, served by procedures, uses and artisanal modes, many of them still prior to the industrial revolution. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we can still go further in the model of the functioning of justice. We have a duty to aim for better functioning and better administration, to provide better work tools to judicial officials. This initiative is still a small step, because we need to reflect on new methods that coincide with modern times. We need, Madam Secretary of State, to continue the path of modernity in justice, to implement new practices, to demystify the complexity and bureaucracy of the judicial system, to review the values of the procedural costs — in fact, an initiative has been presented here, by the PSD — and the fees of the informal defenders. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what we need is to bring the citizens closer to justice. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u56	For an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u57	Madam President, I welcome the Bureau whose composition today is so well composed, Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Justice, Mr. Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Mrs. Deputies and Mrs. Members :Sr.a Secretary of State, I welcome this legislative initiative, which extends the use of computer tools for processing proceedings to criminal proceedings. This is an operation that was already planned and which unfortunately only falls late. And when I say this I don't point my finger at anyone, until, in the path of what Mr. Secretary of State said, we all know that these things are done gradually. The faster they do, the better, and the better this rhythm keeps going. I would therefore like to greet you for that. This amendment means that both representatives and informal lawyers, rather than sending procedural pieces electronically, could already do so - they can now also receive their notifications electronically, so they can use Citius, as we all commonly call this computer application. This pleases us and, of course, introduces agility, simplification and cost savings which, probably no one will discuss, and will improve, not decisively but at least a little, procedural speed. That's something we like and I greet again. We have nothing to oppose this initiative, on the contrary, until all the necessary security and redundancy conditions seem to us to be assured, until it is made like the other jurisdictions in which Citius is already used. So, nothing to oppose. But, Madam Secretary of State, I would like to leave two notes which form part of what has already been said in this House today either by Mr José Manuel Pureza or by Mr Filipe Neto Brandão. The first concerns precisely what Mr. José Manuel Pureza said recently and what is said in the explanatory statement, which refers to a savings amounting to about 25 000 working hours of employees and which will therefore save the work of about 16 judicial officials. This is great, in the sense that you save your work, but it is good not to forget, Mr. Secretary of State, the horrendous lack of justice officers in our courts, not only in prisons, and that you do not want to whiten out what we have been discussing for a long time and that we urgently need to resolve. in a second note, I mean that Mr Filipe Neto Brandão talked about the problems we had with Citius. It is true, we watch the problems, it is now stabilized, and very well— although it is! But there is another jurisdiction in which the issue is not stabilized. I speak of the SITAF ( Information System of Administrative and Tax Tribunals ), which is, for those who do not know the acronym, a platform that is used in administrative and tax courts, which have serious, serious problems, and which still does not work well. It was important that this step should be taken quickly so that this issue should be brought to light in administrative and fiscal justice, which has not been achieved so far. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u58	Thank you very much, Mrs Vania Dias da Silva, and also for your reference to the Bureau. Mr António Filipe now speaks for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u59	Madam President, Under-Secretary of State and Justice, Under-Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs, Members : I will make a main comment and two accessories on this bill. The main observation concerns the use of technological possibilities in the functioning of justice. It is not even an issue of opinion, it is a question of fact that there is all the functional advantage in which they are used. There is an advantage from the point of view of speed, ease and accessibility, therefore all the reasons for making technological possibilities as fully as possible. As we know, with regard to communications, particularly with regard to their reception, developments have been rapid, to the point of our Code of Criminal Procedure, which at the time was a technological advance, the possibility of telecopy notifications, which is something that is no longer in existence, is part of the past. Therefore, one day of these, this norm, if it has not expired already, is obviously affected by expiry by the nature of things. But the mail notifications remain. It is clear that they may also be carried out in criminal proceedings by technological means, and there is every advantage that this possibility is taken advantage of. It made this central comment on the agreement with this bill, there are two additional observations which I would like to mention. The first is that Citius actually works. We all know — and it has already been mentioned — that the collapse of Citius a few years ago brought serious damage to justice, but it is not the fact that Citius collapsed a few years ago that must prevent us from taking advantage of this system in all its potential. We cannot look suspiciously at technology and stop using the available means, arguing that they may not work. Therefore, we hope that it will not happen, but if any trouble happens with Citius, let it be resolved quickly. Obviously, their use for notification to lawyers and defenders in criminal proceedings makes all the sense. The second supplementary observation that I make has to do with the saving in working hours that is mentioned. It is, of course, a very significant saving in hours of work and money. I am glad that this possibility included in the bill will save many thousands of hours of work from court officials, but this is no excuse for not significantly increasing the number of people working in courts. Obviously this is an advantage, but it is very far from covering the huge deficit of judicial officials we have in our country. So let us not rest on this matter with the fact that this proposal is approved. But of course this bill deserves our agreement. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u60	The Bureau did not register any more entries by the parliamentary groups, so I have the floor of the Under-Secretary of State and Justice for a new intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u61	Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the speakers of all the parliamentary groups for their acknowledgement of this proposal and, finally, for the positive reception that it received in this House, which means that, in relation to matters which are truly important for the functioning of the administration of justice, there may be more broad consensus among those who represent the will of the people. Mr. José Manuel Pureza referred to the savings that the Ministry of Justice will make by resorting to computer resources, and that they will therefore generate an economy of resources, and he said he hoped that they would be able to serve the Ministry of Justice to apply them, in particular, in the event of a reduction in costs. No doubt! You will know as well as I and everyone here that the problem of financing and the means that the Public Administration needs, particularly this sector of the administration of justice, is now a crucial issue. Obviously, the Ministry of Justice will be in the front line to defend that the savings it can raise are invested to address the major difficulties it has in some areas. Despite the lack of resources, I believe that we have set correct priorities and we have come up with solving the crucial problems in this so important sector of State functioning. On the issue, which has also been raised, whether this will serve to bleach or fill the need for judicial officers we need to ensure the functioning of the Portuguese courts, I would like to remind this House that, in the previous State budget, an authorization was given to the Ministry of Justice to hire 400 judicial officers. Not only have we opened the competition, as we have already done all the evidence.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u62	Madam Under-Secretary of State and Justice, I would ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u63	I conclude now, Madam President. These 400 judicial officers will be in office by November. With regard to SITAF, Mrs Deputies has some reason, but as you also know, we are making significant improvements in this jurisdiction, and some portals, which are public knowledge, have already been published. Therefore, it is a jurisdiction that will not be abandoned and, soon thereafter, will arrive here a draft diploma that will, in fact, make a very significant difference in the answer we intend to give. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u64	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded this point and said goodbye to the Under-Secretary of State and Justice. We will continue with the discussion, in general, of Bill No. 599 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Strengthens the defence of competition and regulates compensation actions for infringement of the provisions of competition law ( Private Enforcement ) ( PSD ). To present the initiative, Mr António Leitão Amaro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u65	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The PSD has always worked hard, throughout its history, to make us live in a truly free and open market economy. We believe, in principle, that it is for the free and decentralized action and competition between producers and for a free and informed choice of consumers that most preferences of people are achieved and that there is greater social well-being as well. We believe, yes, in free and open competition, but we also know that markets fail: they fail because of externalities, they fail when there are abuses of market power, they fail because of information asymmetries and they fail because of wrong public interventions. in the PSD, we attack market failures with the same intensity and conviction that we attack the public failures. Market failures and public failures, both create injustices, harm the most fragile for the benefit of some, destroying value and opportunities for all. The laws and competition authority exist to combat these market failures, protect consumers, maximize social welfare, but are not always sufficient, as the Competition Authority itself acknowledges. It is not enough for the Competition Authority to enforce competition rules and protect consumers and society. It is important that competitors and consumers can be agents of competition. This is what we are proposing with the creation of a new mechanism at European level — which should have already been transposed, but the government has not yet done so, despite the deadline for transposition which has already ended at the end of last year, which allows competitive and organised companies and consumers to be able, through compensation actions, to enforce competition rules and to attack restrictive and competitive practices, market abuse to protect consumers and competitors. This is therefore a necessary law and an important mechanism. It does not replace the activity of the Competition Authority — in fact, so the Competition Authority proposes that we continue, exactly on this path, but complements it, so that a market economy will truly function freely and openly, for the benefit of all and not of some. That is why, in this draft law, the PSD proposes that we do not remain under the general rules of civil law compensation, but extend responsibility to parent companies, so that large groups do not create small vehicles that can act as small assets and violate the rules of competition, extend the rules of prescription, create a collaboration between the Competition Authority and these compensation actions, "power" consumers, ensure that all costs and damages are compensated. This is, through this law, we protect the Portuguese, protect a more open, freer and more well-being economy. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u66	For an intervention, Mr. Ricardo Bexiga has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u67	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have now become confused with this speech by Mr Leitão Amaro. In the first item on the agenda, about the crowdfunding sanctions regime, we have heard the Members of your bench say that the market was not a failure and therefore there were no rules necessary to regulate market failures.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u68	That was more than half an hour ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u69	It was more than half an hour ago, and, therefore, they have already forgotten the situation in which, by the way, the market fails. [[P.S.'s applause.]] We share the concerns expressed in this Community directive, however we have in principle the following: this proposal, submitted by the PSD, as referred to in the explanatory statement, transposes the preliminary draft prepared by the Competition Authority, at the request of the Government, in order to implement the directive into the domestic legal order. It happens that this preliminary draft goes far beyond what is envisaged in the directive and introduces a set of legal solutions, which are not provided for in the directive, which have a very strong impact on the balance of the national legal order. In fact, these doubts and difficulties were patented in the public discussion promoted by the Competition Authority of this preliminary draft. At the time, the situations related to inadequate solutions to our legal order and, above all, solutions that called into question the systematic consistency of our legal order in matters such as the concept of civil liability, limitation periods, evidentiary strength of foreign sentences, quantification of damage, proof and organization Thus, the Government had the initiative to request a reformulation of this first draft in coordination with the Competition Authority with a view to correcting the shortcomings identified there, and hence the transposition, within the Council of Ministers, of this directive into the national legal order by means of a proposal for a law. Therefore, this PSD initiative is today surpassed by the Government's initiative and we will have the opportunity to discuss, in committee, the solutions that are advanced for the transposition of this directive. It is not enough to transpose the directive, it is necessary to create conditions for the solutions of Community legislation to be effective and do not destroy what is the balance of our judicial system. We agree that the model of public enforcement should be complemented by the functioning of private enforcement, which allows private individuals to be compensated for the damage suffered by the breach of competition rules. however, knowing that the transposition of this directive has profound implications in our competition regime, approved in 2012, and also in the Law of the Organisation of the Judiciary System, adopted 2013, it is clear that the concerns of the government, which led to the in-depth work on the initial draft of the Competition Authority, have made all the sense. It is clear that this bill, tabled in the Council of Ministers, will be discussed here in the House and will certainly have better solutions to what is the concern of the transposition of this directive. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u70	For an intervention on behalf of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, Mr Pedro Mota Soares has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u71	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: For those who, like us on this bench, believe in the social market economy, for those who, like us, believe that this is the best way of ensuring that we can meet the needs of Portuguese people, we must at the same time believe in a model of strong regulation, in a model of regulation that guarantees all entities, especially the smaller economic agents — and, in Portugal, the overwhelming majority of our companies are small and medium-sized enterprises — a model that, in practice, guarantees the same protection. This is very important within the national framework, but it is absolutely fundamental within the framework of a common European market, where Portuguese companies are not competing alone and exclusively between them, they are also competing often with large international companies. That is why we must be able to go further and, beyond regulation, which must always be done through independent administrative entities, it is essential that the economic agents themselves, especially the smaller economic agents, may have the instruments, be able to have a law that protects them when there are abuses of competition, when there are abuses of a dominant position, when there are practices that are restrictive of the market itself and of that regulation that the market must always have. This is precisely why the 2014 directive on private enforcement is to ensure that these small economic operators are able to be compensated when there are abuses of competition practices in the internal markets, but it is also absolutely essential on the European market. That is why I commend the PSD Parliamentary Group for forcing this debate, because the fact is that the legislation that should have been transposed by the end of 2016 was not, leaving many Portuguese economic agents in a very difficult situation, particularly when they are competing with other European entities which already have these mechanisms transposed into their domestic law and which, therefore, can deal with these mechanisms even against Portuguese companies. We realize that the Government and the Socialist Party's bench have indeed this enormous difficulty in this debate, i.e. to give a justification, to explain clearly to the companies in Portugal why there is a delay in this same transposition and, if it has no other beneficial effect, this debate today has already had a very important effect, which is that it has required the government today to legislate. We have seen in the statement by the Council of Ministers that the Government will now send a bill to Parliament to implement this directive. on our part, they can count, as always, on a strong position in these matters, but constructive. There are a number of aspects, in this diploma, which can and should be improved, but that is exactly why there is work in the specialty, that is exactly why Parliament's own groups can come up with proposals for replacement and improvement of this same diploma and that is what we will do. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u72	For an intervention by the CFP, Mr Bruno Dias has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: With this bill, the PSD gives a glimpse of its grace and reminds us of what was this disastrous and unfortunate policy, more troika than the troika, of imposing on the country and the people the most extreme recipes of neoliberalism. What is here is a copy of a lamentable document that is not even a transposition, it is a translation, Mr. Members, a directive that was already bad enough and even worse when the PSD makes copies and glues, ignoring the Portuguese legal framework and the concrete reality in which it comes. Instead of solving problems, this diploma, if approved, would be a powerful factor of more problems and greater confusion, from the outset, when it points to a kind of equivalence between the Competition Authority and the courts; when it creates conditionalisms, limitations and exceptions in access by the courts to evidence by the Competition Authority; when it opens the door to situations where the same facts and practices may be the subject of decision in different instances, the AdC (Competition Authority) and the court, and it results in different decisions with a framework that becomes more complex and not less complex; when it introduces several amendments to the Competition Authority and new rules on the relationship between the courts and the Competition Authority; when it still introduces several amendments to the Law of the Judicial System Organization, bulising with competences and functioning of the courts and their sections. And while claiming that the provisions of the diploma do not apply retroactively, this does not refer, after all, to the burden of proof and the conduct of proceedings, including ongoing. It shall be assumed openly as soon as possible in Article 1. the, that the application occurs regardless of the infringement has already been declared, i.e. with retroactivity as to the facts. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the fundamental question is also raised of the extrajudicial mechanism of resolving conflicts in which infringements of competition can, after all, be bought if the economic power of the offender reaches such an extent, because this is what we talk about so many times when we talk about arbitration. It was the same recipe that we had in the ECA ( Comprehensive Economic and Trade Agreement ), the same recipe that we had in the TTIP ( Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership ) and that now, at European level, applies to these types of procedures and guidelines. We also have here the criterion of justice for those who can pay it, read for economic groups and for multinationals, laying the principle of equality of everyone before the law to the wicked. For more faith vows and professions that come to deal with competition and the defense of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises, what life is showing is that the CFP had — and is right — that is, the laws follow policies and, as the laws have been changed, the problems of so-called competition and of the sacrosanct markets have not been solved; on the contrary, there is greater inequality and market power of the economic groups which is increasingly powerful, stronger than the weakest, small and medium-sized enterprises. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the policies that have been followed for decades in favour of economic power, economic groups and multinationals are actually the origin of the problem we are seeing and facing. Thus, these kinds of laws, as I say, more troquists than the troika are part of the problem and not of the solution. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u74	You now have the floor for an intervention, Mr Paulino Ascensão, of the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u75	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This initiative aims to facilitate compensation for damages and infringements of competition law and enables private parties to act in defence of competition. It transposes into the internal legal order a Community directive and is, as such, indisputable. We have already mentioned some aspects of this transposition that deserve our concern, so I apologize for reproducing them. Mr Leitão Amaro made here the apology of the private initiative, of competition, said it is very good, but it needs to be regulated, which leads to the conclusion that it is not so good. The basic idea of competition is based on two fundamental assumptions of competition and free market. These assumptions are the existence of multiple suppliers and multiple consumers and that both and both are equally well informed. This is a myth, because in reality these conditions do not exist. Markets are increasingly concentrated and access to information, which, then, is deeply unequal. Some considerations in the explanatory statement of this proposal are shocking. The PSD says that strengthening competition is a priority for consumer protection, and if we look, for example, at CTTs, this is very illustrative. Liberalization, privatization, opening the door to competition, created the current situation of deep degradation of services and surely most Portuguese and workers will be very grateful for this initiative of the PSD! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u76	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u77	It also refers to the elimination of gold shares — I remember the case of PT — to facilitate competition. The workers of the PT will also be very grateful to the PSD for this initiative, given the abuses they are experiencing, at the dismissals, the destruction of the company that happened after this lifting of the golden shares! Open... It also refers to the improvement of the telecommunications sector. Consumers will also be very happy with the abusive practices they are systematically subjected to, with a permanent harassment to buy more a pack, etc... All wonderful ideas! Open... So, outside the economic manuals, where does the reality show that competition benefits consumers, in particular in these sectors that are mentioned in the presentation of reasons for the diploma? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u78	For a second speech, Mr António Leitão Amaro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u79	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, what remarkable interventions! The Left Block reminded me of a speech, which I no longer heard for some time, of an economy made only by public initiative. Sir, that exists in the world. See North Korea! That's what you want for Portugal! Is that what you're talking about?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u80	We're always listening to this speech!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u81	Mr Bruno Dias, let me tell you that your intervention will remain for the years of the history of the parliamentary debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u82	You're a genius!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u83	What you have said here was simply the following: « Do not move in the rules so that companies that abuse the market today cannot be attacked and do not see consumers and other competitors attack them and protect themselves with rules», they are preventing them from being attacked. That's what you basically said. Mr Bexiga, and I will try to translate his speech, said the following: « Today the government has made a proposal and the PSD proposal has been exceeded ». Mr President, this translated means that the government again runs the PSD trailer — it happened with decentralization, it happened with financial supervision, it happened with the creation of the independent commission for the Pedrogon case, it happened with the compensation to the Pedrogan families. You don't reform, you walk the trailer and you're dragged! If the opposition does not serve anything else, it will help you, the trailer, to do something. On the other hand, the honourable Member came here to raise problems, in the debate, saying that he was going to change existing solutions in the legal system. Yes, sir! What you have said is that you want to continue to have a solution in Portugal which allows a large, very large company if you want to enter the market and violate the rules of competition, to create a small-scale child society, with little heritage, which makes the assholes and which, when asked for responsibility, does not have any heritage. What we say is that the economic group, the parent society, must pay, also with its heritage, for the infraction and you say: "No! Not because that changes the rules of the Portuguese legal system! Jehovah will not desert his people for the sake of his great name. ”
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u84	Mr President, there has been a clear distraction from the Bureau, i.e. my own, and the honourable Member has greatly exceeded his time. Would you like to conclude, please?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u85	I'm sorry, Madam President. I'll finish. Another example is that he does not want the DECO to be able to have access to proof and to cooperate with the Competition Authority to defend them. It's all said!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u86	Mr President, the Bureau has to defend the fulfilment of the times.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u87	The translation of his speech is: « We want an economy dominated by some to the detriment of all ». [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u88	Mr António Leitão Amaro clearly received attention from the Bureau, which was resolving a matter of file. The assessment of Bill No 599 / XIII ( 2 ) was completed. ( a ) and before we move on to the next item on the agenda, I would ask Mrs Emília Santos to proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u89	Mr. President and Mrs. Members, he entered the Bureau and was admitted, draft resolution No 1088 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures aimed at reducing the weight of school backpacks ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and NAP ). That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u90	Mrs. Members, let us then begin the discussion, jointly and generally, of the projects of lein.o 635 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Creates the order of physical therapists ( PS ), 636 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Creates the order of health technicians and approves their status ( PS ) and 642 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creation of the order of physical therapists ( CDS-PP ). To present the initiatives of the Socialist Party, Mr António Sales has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u91	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The creation of an order is a unique moment in the course of a profession and its professionals, it is also a unique moment for the intended users of the service provided by these professionals, I would say until it is a unique moment for the national health system and, in particular, for the National Health Service. Both physiotherapy and health technicians are recognized as an essential part of the provision of health care and today represent the unequivocal expression of the vertiginous evolution of health sciences in their technical, scientific, cultural, humanistic and sociological components. They cover areas of specialized clinical intervention, since prevention of social reintegration, and assume great economic and social relevance. this evolution resulted in new needs, both in the field of professional training, and in the regulation of professional exercise. The growing complexity determined by the exponential evolution of these own sciences incorporates the framework of responsibilities and accountability in which the professional exercise develops, making the need for effective professional regulation imperative. This effective regulation, by creating mechanisms for supervision and discipline of professional exercise, protects citizens and protects the public health of Portuguese. Therefore, the bills that create the order of physiotherapists and the order of health technicians have as main recipients the Portuguese and only then the professionals involved. Physiotherapy is a specific scientific discipline, whose teaching is taught in higher education than undergraduate, master's and doctoral levels; it is owned by a body of knowledge; it represents the third profession in the area of health care, involving more than 10 000 professionals in Portugal; it is internationally affiliated with the World Confederation for Physical Therapy, recognized by WHO (World Health Organization ). The increasing scientific development and the rapid de-updualization of knowledge and practices requires physiotherapists to involve themselves in a process of permanent and continuous updating, requiring the existence of a professional order that coordinates and regulates it. These reasons make itself considered emerging the self-regulation of the physiotherapist profession at the national level, which will become possible with the creation of its professional order. Similarly, other professions also aim to safeguard and promote health, is the case of health technicians, where it must be ensured that their professional exercise is subject not only to the requirement of higher-level specialized academic training but also to legal and regulatory provisions that give it a framework ensured by efficient discipline and supervision mechanisms. It is therefore necessary that the professional exercise of the 15 different professions incorporated here justifies the aggregation of professionals due to the need to place in growing collaboration, in a broader and comprehensive framework, all qualified and regulated health professions. this growing collaboration will result, without losing the scientific and technical autonomy of each of the professions, the development of synergies that are essential to ensure the provision of quality health care and enhance adequate flexibility in the management of human resources and in the observance of ethical standards. These professions integrate European and global associative structures where they play an important role in the development and development of their professional exercise. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, therefore, effective regulation is characterized by four key elements: first, ensuring that school curricula meet the standards of education necessary for entry into the profession; second, continuous guarantee of standards of professional competence or proficiency; third, standards of conduct and professional ethics; fourth, maintenance of a register of regulated and recognized professionals. These four key elements are interrelated and represent the pillars that support regulatory approaches that serve the public interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u92	Would you like to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u93	I conclude now, Madam President. Thus, the Socialist Party has the grateful opportunity to present these two projects concerning the creation of the orders of physiotherapists and health technicians in the areas of diagnosis and therapy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u94	To present the draft law of the CDS-PP, you have the floor of Mrs. Isabel Galriça Neto.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u95	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The presentation, today, of this CDS bill, which aims to create the order of physiotherapists, runs, as it is known, of a long way that we have come along with the objective of, firstly, responding to an area of health care with recognized specificity and seeing, once and for all, created a professional order, which is fully justified in our country. Already in previous legislatures, the CDS presented initiatives to create the order of physiotherapists. In 2010 we introduced Bill No. 396 / XI ( 1 ). ( a ) that, due to the early dissolution of the Assembly of the Republic, was not approved in a comprehensive final vote, although it was generally only with the CDS's favourable votes. Then, in the XII Legislation, we introduced Bill No. 192 / XII ( 1 ). ( a). however, the impositions of the Memorandum of Understanding, signed with the troika, determined that during the duration of the Programme of Economic and Financial Adjustment, the number of regulated professions and measures to liberalise access and the exercise of regulated professions performed by qualified and established professionals in the European Union would be revised and reduced. Therefore, these troika impositions limited the creation of new professional orders and the CDS saw thus conditioned the premises to advance with the design of the creation of the order of physiotherapists. however, Portugal is now free of these restrictions of the Memorandum of Understanding and here we are, in a coherent way, to resume this initiative. Mr. President and Mr. And Mrs. Members, the physiotherapist is now recognized as an autonomous professional who willingly works in an interdisciplinary and articulated way and who intervenes directly in the provision of care and in the promotion of health, as well as in the prevention of the disease. It is a direct contact agent with the users, being technically equipped with the ability to initiate a process and to conduct to the end in their area of intervention, in particular with regard to evaluation, diagnosis, planning, implementation, measurement and determination of discharge of physiotherapy. Thus, physiotherapist should be considered a qualified professional with a legally recognized course of physiotherapy and to whom a title has been assigned which recognizes the due scientific, technical and human competence for the provision of such care. Its intervention spectrum is wide and ranges from the cardiorespiratory area to the area of neurology, pediatrics, continuous and palliative care and primary health care. There are about 10,000 physiotherapists in Portugal and we remember that there are hundreds of thousands, if not millions, of Portuguese to benefit from their support. It is therefore fundamental and of broad public interest to ensure that the exercise of this profession is carried out in accordance with good practice standards and in accordance with the state of the art, with the legitimate interests of users in respect for the ethics and ethical standards of the profession, as well as in conjunction with all other health professionals who intervene directly or indirectly with each user. For all these standards to be properly ensured, it is appropriate to create the order of physiotherapists, as a credible and elevated form of recognized practice in health. We believe that there is no doubt about this. in the specialty, we can certainly integrate some constructive contribution that aims to improve this diploma, which represents, in our view and in the understanding of many, an advance and a credibility of more and better health care for the Portuguese. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u96	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, before we continue the debate, Mrs Emília Santos will report on the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I inform you that the NAP has announced the withdrawal under the Rules of Procedure of draft resolution No 1084 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures aimed at reducing the weight of school backpacks (NAPs), whose discussion was scheduled for tomorrow. That's all, Madam President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u98	Thank you very much for this information. For an intervention, you now have the floor of Mrs Joana Barata Lopes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u99	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are discussing today three bills starting from two premises to come to a conclusion, that there is a manifestly insufficient legislation on the regulation of the exercise of professions, which, here today, are discussed, and that it is the creation of a professional order that will solve this lack of regulation in the exercise of these professions. The PSD does not agree with the premise that the creation of a professional order is the answer to the lack of regulation in the exercise of professions and also does not agree, because of consistency with the one who was its intervention as a government in the previous legislation. The creation of a professional order must respond to an exceptional situation in which the State cannot directly ensure the interest concerned, not because it does not want, not because it is incompetent and not because it cannot, and is not the case, the State can and must do so. We also understand that the way in which we conceive society is the same as in the legislation of the previous government, in the regime of access and exercise of professions and professional activities, in a logic of ensuring the elimination of unjustified barriers, ensuring justice and regulation in the exercise of professions, and it is to the State that this function, as it is, our understanding, must be defined the direction that society must follow. We are also not apart from the fact that, in the previous legislature, we have regulated all existing orders and, in many of the cases where we have regulated existing orders, we have had to do something to correct situations in which orders have clearly prevented the access of new licensees, which certainly did not correspond to the spirit with which that order was created. We're not strangers to that. But it's important to understand what's being sold here. We have nothing against professional orders, we understand that, being the direction of society we want to demonstrate, it is up to the State not to resign from this function. However, if we have nothing, we must also say that the Socialist Party comes in some way — and I am passing on the expression — to sell, through the creation of these orders, the idea that it will solve the problem of regulating the exercise of professions. There is a problem here: it is the Socialist Party itself, which supports the Government, whose Health Minister presented the proposal that everyone will know, the Bill No. 34 / XIII ( 2 ). a ), which assumes that the State has to intervene in the regulation of acts in health in situations, as you know, of orders that are already in place. What do I want to say with this? As we stand for, the State cannot resign itself from the function of regulating the exercise of the profession, because the orders, as the Government of the Socialist Party recognizes, do not suffice itself in regulating the exercise of profession. And, therefore, what is being sold here does not, in our understanding, correspond to the truth. Now, the four key elements which have been guaranteed here and with which we agree must emanate from this Chamber ; they must, in so far as it is up to us, as is the responsibility of the State, ensure the ability to assign the profession and the recognition of the profession. It must also be the State, and each of us elected as representatives to assume this responsibility, namely, thoroughly, through proposals, that we are available to do, those which are the fair claims for the exercise of professions, not only these but all those which are clearly and insufficiently regulated. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u100	For an intervention, Mrs Isabel Pires has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u101	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, in particular, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Members of the PS and the CDS, because they present here draft laws for the regulation, through order, of these professions, the Block of the Left knows that today, several professionals play their tasks in health in completely deregulated contexts, and that is a role that belongs to the State, regular. And this deregulation happens both in the public and in the private, where, in many cases, wages are also lower and where professionals are obliged to perform functional contents that are not even their own, the result of this same deregulation. We believe, therefore, that much more needs to be done than is being done to dignify the health professions, particularly those of senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians, and much more is needed to respect these workers and their professions. however, we believe that this should be done through changes to labour legislation, among other measures. For example, senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians defend, and well, the review of their career, and it is a fair claim, in our view. The new legal regime has been published, however, there is still much to be done about it. For example, there is a need to set the standard on how professionals will move to the new regime; there is a need to discuss and agree on a new wage table; and basically there is a need to ensure that workers move on to the new career. This is what the Left Block has defended and, as you have said, it has to be resolved this year. There is much more to these, like others, health workers and we believe that the existence of an order will not solve these and other problems associated with the professions we are discussing today. We do not oppose its creation, but we do not see, in its existence, the answer to all the problems and to the deregulation that has been assisted in the area of health, which, we repeat, is the obligation of the State to respond. The legislative initiatives we are discussing here are also worthy of reflection, even because they are not unanimous among the professions that may be covered by these orders. For example, the creation of two orders, one for physiotherapists and one for health diagnostic technicians, fragment and place in two professional orders different professions that have so far shared the same career. Therefore, there are several opinions to defend a single order, there are several positions on the table that need to be discussed and discussed, and there is also the alert of the Union of Higher Health Techniques of the Diagnostic and Therapeutic Areas, which says that other professionals, such as occupational therapists and podologists, are left out of these proposals. Therefore, we do not oppose the creation of these orders, we believe that a greater discussion is necessary not to exclude anyone, nor to fragment professions that are now joint, as we believe that, in the name of dignity and regulation of professions, it is necessary to move forward with very concrete measures to achieve the new careers and improve the working and wage conditions of these professionals. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[In the meantime, President Ferro Rodrigues was re-elected.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u102	For an intervention, Mrs Carla Cruz has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u103	Mr. President and Mr. Members: in this discussion, we would like to address the first word to professionals and remember the importance that all diagnostic and therapeutic technicians have for the provision of quality health care and in a timely manner in the National Health Service. When we talk about the activities that these professionals perform, we are talking about professionals who perform analyses, exams, radiographs, physiotherapy, speech therapy and others who develop and apply prostheses, among others. It is undeniable that the activity of these professionals has been growing in our society and their functions are not exhausted in public services, and there are today many professionals who work in the private sector liberally. the importance and diversity of areas in which they work are professions that constitute a value that it is important to value. It happens, however, that the recognition and importance of these professionals in the various areas in which they intervene have not been recognized by successive governments. It should be recalled here that these professionals have fought for several years for the consecration of a career and that only this year they have achieved this right, even if it has not been fully fulfilled, so it is urgent that measures be taken for their full confirmation. Today we discuss three legislative initiatives, two of the PS and one of the CDS-PP, both parties propose the creation of the order of physiotherapists and the PS also proposes the creation of the order of health technicians. The CFP understands the need for regulation of professions, particularly those in the health sector, because of their relevance in providing health care to the population. However, we must not forget that the government is responsible for regulating these professions. But in fact, in Portugal there is a lack of this regulation and this supervision which has consequences for both professionals and users: for the first, it leads to professional, social and remuneration devaluation; and for users, it opens the way for care to be provided that does not follow best practices. Regarding the lack of regulation of health professionals, there is still a set of professions that need to be regulated, especially that of optometrists. Due to the lack of regulation and supervision of the Government, the concern of the various professional areas in relation to the regulation of the professional profile of the functions they perform and on deontology and professional ethics is fair. On the option of the PS not to include occupational therapists and podialogueists, we recall here what the national union said in a communiqué. « The imposition of models of organisation of professional self-regulation which may contribute to the division of these professionals(...) », calling for « (...) not to create situations of inequality which call into question the professional performance and the life of a large number of workers ».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u104	I would ask you to conclude, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u105	I will finish, Mr. President. We believe that these aspects should be considered in the field of expertise, that solutions should not, in fact, be imposed and that all workers and professionals involved should be heard. This is the commitment that the CFP here can demonstrate and that it will be in the field of expertise. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u106	Mrs. Members, having no further inscriptions, we have come to the end of the evaluation of the projects of lein.os 635 / XIII ( 3. ( a ), submitted by PS, 636 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ), submitted by PS, and 642 / XIII ( 3 ). a ), presented by the CDS-PP, and thus also at the end of the agenda for today. Before closing the session, I would ask Secretary Emília Santos to proceed with the reading of the dossier.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u107	Mr. President and Mr. Members, have entered the Bureau and have been admitted, the proposals of lein.os 99 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Approves the Great Plan Options for 2018 and 100 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the State budget for 2018. That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-10-19.u108	Mrs. Members, our next meeting will be tomorrow for 10 hours and will have the following agenda: firstly, elections of members to the Higher Council of Internal Security, to the Regulatory Council of the ERC ( Regulatory Entity for Social Communication ), to the Board of Supervisors of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic, to the National Data Protection Commission, to the Supervisory Board of the DNA Profile Database, to the National Council of Education and to the Ombudsman. Second, discussion of lein.o 552 / XIII projects ( 2. ( a ) — Consecrates the duty of professional disconnection and reinforces the monitoring of working hours, making the tenth amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ( BE), 640 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Alter the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February 2009, conferring the right of the worker to professional disconnection ( PAN ), 643/ XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Qualifies as a very serious counter-ordination the violation of the rest period ( 10th amendment to the Labour Code, approved by Law No 7 / 2009 of 12 February ) ( The Greens) and 644 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The third amendment to the Labour Code reinforces the worker's right to rest ( PS ), generally together with draft resolutions 1085 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the adoption of measures to ensure effective compliance with working hours and the reconciliation of work with family life ( CFP ) and 1086 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government initiate a debate at the social level with a view to including the right to disconnect either in the Labour Code or in the collective labour regulation instruments ( CDS-PP ). Third, joint and general assessment of projects Nos 571 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Alter to Law No 151 / 2015 of 11 September ( Budget Framework Act ) ( CDS-PP ) and 638 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Ensures the public disclosure of the use of captives in the budgets of entities which integrate the direct and indirect administration of the State ( first amendment to Law No 151 / 2015 of 11 September - Budget Framework Act ) ( CFP ). Fourth, assessment of Decree-Law No 95 / 2017 of 10 August, which regulates the transfer to the General Deposit Box, IP, of the financial charge with the pension supplements of the workers of Carris [ Parliamentary assessments n 45 / XIII ( 2 ). a ) ( BE) and 46 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) ( PCP ) ]. Fifth, joint debate and in general, of the projects of lein.o 539 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Extends the scope of labelling rules for genetically modified foods ( The Greens ), 639 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Making the labelling and supervision rules concerning the presence of genetically modified organisms more transparent by providing consumers with access to information ( PAN) and 641 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Right to information to consumers on genetically modified foods ( GMOs) ( second amendment to Decree-Law No 72 / 2003 of 10 April 2003 ) ( BE ). Sixth, joint discussion of petition No 271 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — They call for political and legislative measures concerning the weight of school backpacks ( José Manuel Franco Wallenstein Teixeira and others) and draft resolution No 1088 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government adopt measures aimed at reducing the weight of school backpacks ( PSD, PS, BE, CDS-PP, PCP, The Greens and NAP ). at the seventh point, the Annual Report of the DNA Profile Database Monitoring Board is scheduled without time. Finally, as the last point of the proceedings, there will be a vote on the Rules of Procedure. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, thanking all of you for your active participation, I should like to close our work today. [[It was 17 hours and 11 minutes.]]
