ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Officials, ladies and gentlemen. Journalists, let's start the session. [[It was 15 hours and 5 minutes.]] I'm asking the ladies. Officers of the authority to open the galleries. Before we get on the agenda, I give the floor to Secretary Duarte Pacheco to make some announcements to the House.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, you have entered the Bureau, and you have been admitted by Mr President, draft deliberation No 16 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Extension of the normal period of operation of the Assembly of the Republic ( President of the HR ). They also entered, and were admitted, the draft resolutions 915 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government pursue the reformulation of the scheme defining the conditions for access and exercise of Portuguese Gestive Interpreter ( PAN ) activity, which falls to 10. the Commission, 916 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Recommends the recovery of State control and management of TTCs with a view to guaranteeing the universal public postal service ( BE ), which falls to 6. the Commission, and 917 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government the preservation and opposition to the mining exploitation of the Argemela ( Os Verdes ) greenhouse, which falls to 11. the Commission. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, I should also like to inform you that the election of a member to the Supervisory Board of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic is as follows: « At seven days in June of two thousand and seventeen, a member was elected to the Supervisory Board of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic. The result was as follows: Voters — 212 Votes ‘yes’ — 112 White votes — 75 No votes — 25 in accordance with the applicable legal terms and in view of the result obtained, it is declared not elected for the Board for the Monitoring of the Information System of the Portuguese Republic Maria Teresa da Silva Morais. To record that the present has been washed up, which will be duly signed. Deputies Scrutinadores, Duarte Pacheco, Diogo León and Pedro Alves. Do not keep on seeking. ” That's all, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u3	Thank you very much, Secretary Duarte Pacheco. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let us therefore get on the agenda, which has as its sole point the 15th-year debate with the Prime Minister on education policy under Article 224 ( a ). the Rules of Procedure. To give the initial intervention, Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u4	Mr. President of the Assembly of the Republic, Mrs. and Mrs. Members: The current school year is coming to an end. I wanted, therefore, to begin by greeting all those who contributed so that this was a different school year and without surprises and thanking teachers, educators, auxiliaries, parents, students and directors, because all were fundamental to the success of a school year that was based on normality. The classes started on the scheduled date, with teachers and students placed in time and hours, returning to schools the tranquility necessary to develop their work, which is one of the most relevant to our future. Education is the basis of a modern and progressive society: only with education do we have informed citizens and active citizenship, only with education do we have qualified and accomplished citizens and we can have innovative companies to affirm our competitiveness in an increasingly global world. In short, only with qualified citizens will we have a decent society and a strong democracy. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Our first priority is to combat school failure, which is one of the most serious obstacles to the modernization of the country and to reduce inequalities. It is not only the right to education which the Constitution guarantees; the Constitution guarantees more, it guarantees that « everyone has the right to education with the right to equal access opportunities and school success». All children should be entitled to quality education and equal access to a successful school course without early dualizations or exclusions. That is why we launched the National School Success Promotion Program, which places on preventative measures of failure and abandonment, benefiting from the new model of evaluation of basic education, which seeks to measure learning early in order to correct the difficulties signalled from the beginning of the school course. The programs were developed by the schools themselves, in conjunction with educational communities, because it is who knows their students and their main difficulties that best define strategies to overcome them. For many years there have been schools in Portugal who are pioneers in the development of innovative projects to promote school success, placing on early signs of learning difficulties and developing solutions aimed at students with school insertion problems, seeking to improve levels of absenteeism and allowing significantly reduced retention rates. the State and the Government must support and promote these strategies and complement them with other national measures. Therefore, in the next school year, schools will be able to develop, in the use of their autonomy, projects of pedagogical flexibility of the curriculum, with the start of a pilot project. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They add measures such as the increase of vacancies in pre-school education, the end of vocational courses in basic education, which constituted a dead end for thousands of children, the reduction of the number of students per class, the creation of tutorials in basic education, the strengthening of school social action, the distribution of free school textbooks in 1. the basic education cycle or the appreciation of special education, measures and instruments that, as a whole, promote the inclusion of school and oppose the generational reproduction of inequalities. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In order to overcome what is still the biggest structural deficit in our country today and which, over the decades, has limited our development capacity, we have to redirect public investment to education. In 2016, we have already improved 60 schools, with more than 90 interventions planned this year. The plan foresees that by the end of the legislature about 200 schools will be recovered through partnership agreements with municipalities within the framework of Portugal 2020, allowing thousands of students to enjoy infrastructures that offer the best conditions for the practice of modern and quality education. Investing in the autonomy of schools for teaching and teaching work and strengthening decentralization for authorities in areas where local power will do better than the state is the healthy combination to have a better school and a better education. [[P.S.'s applause.]] And because education is a right of all, we do not forget those whose circumstances of life have prevented us from continuing the studies in due course. It was to think in these Portuguese that we recovered the investment in adult training. Through the Qualifica programme, which between March and May this year recorded some 26 000 entries, adult education and training was revitalized as a central pillar of the qualification system, ensuring the continuity of lifelong learning policies. Better teaching also requires, and above all, valued and motivated students and teachers. The stability of the teaching body and the reduction of the number of students per class are therefore priorities of the government's educational policy. In the coming school year, the implementation of the reduction in the number of students per class will begin by focusing on priority intervention educational territories, which make up about 18% of the total group of schools and where about 200 000 students study. with regard to the teaching staff and school support staff, the next school year will start with more than 3000 linked teachers and a reinforcement at the level of operational assistants, resulting from the change in the ratio of operational assistants per student. In January, as already announced, a new negotiating period is expected to commence for a new linkage of teachers. Therefore, it is confident that schools, families and the Ministry of Education are preparing the next school year, a school year that will start with greater investment in schools, with more vacancies in secondary vocational education, with greater stability for teachers, with more measures to support school success, with more children in preschool and with free manuals for 1. the cycle. [[P.S.'s applause.]] In short, we will have more and better: more and better school, more and better learning and more and better stability of the teaching body. After 31 years of the approval of the Basics Law of the Education System and 20 years of the approval of the Framework Law of Pre-School Education, Portugal made an extraordinary way to improve levels of education. This path was made by schools, teachers and students and their families and is now recognized in all major international studies, but it was also achieved with investment in education by all who, knowing that the easiest way was to give up, did not resign with the shortage of qualifications that has always separated us from Europe. Portugal is today a more qualified and innovative country, a more prepared country for the challenges it has to face, but also—and it is not too much to highlight—socially more just and more democratic, thanks to the investment that has been made in education. That is the work we must continue, because we cannot be satisfied with the results already achieved. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u5	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's start the question stage. On behalf of the PSD Parliamentary Group, Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor to ask questions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u6	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister, there is no doubt that the Prime Minister has a very small ambition - it is his characteristic - because coming to Parliament to show success in school year and normality in school is in fact seeing the reality with a very sharp deviation. Mr. Prime Minister, normally at school, in a year when they closed schools for lack of employees? Oh, my God! Does normality in school, in a year that, for the first time in many years, was marked by the increase in the dropout rate? Oh, my God! Does it speak of normality when schools were forced to live on average with less than 20 % of the value of transfers from the Ministry of Education? Oh, my God! Is that the normality of education you want to achieve? Oh, my God! Mr. Prime Minister, we are still far from being able to combine your speech, your conversation, with the practical reality that people feel, that students feel, that Portuguese families feel at school! [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] In fact, yesterday Mr. Prime Minister was in a school in Odivelas and heard exactly a faithful portrait that a mother made of what is the school, the lack of conditions and what was needed only for that moment. The truth is that this mother complained about the lack of work in school and the lack of assistants. This is, moreover, a brand that not only reaches education, reaches all public services, Mr Prime Minister. [[PS protests.]] You are already very agitated. It is true, Prime Minister, who reached the number of the deficit, who met the one who was his target, and it is also true that he returned incomes—as he always likes to be remembering—in a more accelerated way than was happening to the previous government. However, this has and has a price: the lack of investment in schools, as well as the lack of investment in the National Health Service ( SNS ). Before I ask you a question, I will read a sentence: "The acquisition of temporary medical work through companies today reaches a value close to EUR 80 million. It is, in fact, a path that must be reversed. We are not reckless to consider that we can do this in a hasty manner, especially during the summer period, in which the dependence of hospitals, in particular the interior, is very strong in this type of resources". Do you know who said this, Prime Minister? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u7	These debates look like quizzes!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u8	You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u9	Mr President, Mr Luís Montenegro, what I would first like to note is that, contrary to what you judge, normality, tranquility, stability, are essential values and if there is something that the Portuguese today record as positive of this majority change, they have been able to breathe again quietly in our country. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Life has gained predictability. People, when they wake up, know that they can turn on the radio and they won't be afraid to hear a new increase in taxes or a new cut in pensions or wages. [[P.S.'s applause.]] This tranquillity is the basis of the confidence that has enabled the country to grow, with the increase in investment, with the increase in exports and, above all, with the creation of more and better jobs: 144 000 new jobs, in net terms, since this government began its duties. This is the normality that the country appreciates and this normality has translated into the fact that for the first time for many years it is strange to have been the first time in many years to have happened something so simple, but already so unusual, that it was the school year that began in time and hours, with teachers and students placed. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The truth is that thanks to the collective effort of the government, citizens, businesses and all public administrations, we have achieved a historic result in reducing the deficit. It was an effort involving all government members. But unlike VV. They often say, the replacement of retirement pensions, of salaries cut to public servants, of minimum social support, was not made at the expense of capitulations in health, where there are no capitulations, nor in schools, where there are no capitulations. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] on the contrary, what we had in education was an increase of 4, 2 % of the allocation in 2016 and 8, 7 % in 2017, as well as the opening of a competition — criticised by VV Ex.as — for the linkage and the fight against the precariousness of teaching staff; what we had in the National Health Service last year was the hiring of 4000 new professionals, between doctors, nurses and technical staff, and it is planned to open a new competition for the linkage of more doctors. What we're doing is an intelligent redistribution of expenditure. Yes, we will reduce the expenditure on hiring jobs, because we have increased the number of doctors linked and in-service full-time functions. It is a cost with more quality, with more respect for doctors and, above all, with better health conditions provided to users of the National Health Service. It is, in fact, different from what they did, but above all, it is better than what they did. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u10	Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u11	Mr President, in order to facilitate the work, I would ask only Mr Prime Minister if he already knows who said the phrase I mentioned earlier. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u12	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u13	Mr President, to be honest, I did not even keep the sentence, but I tell you that I do not know who said it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u14	Mr Luís Montenegro continues to speak. Please, Mr. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u15	Mr. Prime Minister, in fact he was not obliged to know but agreed he knew: it was Adalberto Campos Fernandes, who in the Assembly of the Republic, in June 2016, said that the hiring of medical services to companies should not decrease at the time of summer and that it should not affect the operationality of the internal health services—now, not only from the inside but also from the Algarve, who is experiencing similar problems, whose system depends much on the ability to hire. Mr Prime Minister, this week you published a decree in which you blindly force all health units to decrease this contract by 35 %. I ask, first of all, what has changed from summer 2016 to summer 2017 and, secondly, if Mr. Prime Minister can ensure that the services will not be affected, because what gives people peace is knowing that the consultation that is marked will even take place or that the surgery that is marked will even take place. This gives people peace of mind. But this is not what's happening. What is happening is delayed consultations and complaints to shoot in the arrow, Mr. Prime Minister. What has changed, Prime Minister? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u16	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u17	Mr President, Mr Luís Montenegro, something that has certainly changed was that you, who have lived out of Portugal for the last five years, have returned. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] I greet him for that because he discovers realities he didn't know.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u18	That's so funny.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u19	But, Mr. Luís Montenegro, I will reassure you: if that phrase is from Minister Adalberto Campos Fernandes, it is very similar to what I heard you say yesterday or yesterday at a hearing held here in the Assembly of the Republic, and even much like what I myself said last night, in a debate I had on television, on SIC, with journalist José Gomes Ferreira,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] ...to whom I had the opportunity to explain that the reduction of 35 % in each expenditure...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u20	At every expense? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u21	...it doesn't have to be everyday, not in all circumstances. The example I gave was, in fact, well chosen, because it is exactly the same as it did. For example, in the Algarve, during the summer period, where there is of course a greater influx of people and therefore a greater probability of using SNS services, it is essential to continue to have the ability to contract, in order to respond to demand peaks, because it would be irrational that in the Algarve we had 12 months a year tables adjusted to a specific reality that lives three or four months a year.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u22	And? Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u23	So there will continue to be a reduction. The question is, Mr President, would you prefer that we have more full-time or more professional doctors? Would you prefer that, by increasing the number of full-time doctors, we do not compensate for the reduction of jobs and maintain them, even though there are more full-time professionals?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u24	What does one thing have to do with the other? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u25	Would you like to know in particular what you prefer: more tasks or that there is no compensation for expenditure and expenditure is simply spending, without need? It's a question I'd like to understand. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u26	Mr Luís Montenegro continues to speak.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u27	Mr President, Prime Minister, what I prefer is good services to citizens. [[PSD applause.]] What I prefer is the ability to manage the human and financial resources of the Public Administration. What I would prefer was that the Prime Minister should not have reverted structural reforms which give sustainability to public systems and which are creating problems that force his Government to hire more people. By the way, I must say your answer was very curious. Mr. Prime Minister says, using the example of the Algarve, that they have issued a decree-law, but that it is not to comply, because, if more people are needed in the summer, it will have to be hired. So, in order to arrive at the end of the year and we have this hospital unit to comply with what your decree of law requires, if it will not cut 35% in summer, how much will it cut in the rest of the year, Prime Minister? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u28	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u29	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that you are well aware that the population in the Algarve triple during the summer period and, of course, the reduction that needs to exist is at all expenditure throughout the year and not reduction in every day in particular, because there may be a higher reduction in one day and less in the other. We looked at two numbers to understand what is a balanced management of public finances and the satisfaction of needs: the year in which we increased the professionals of the National Health Service in 4000, among doctors, nurses and technical staff, was the same year that we achieved the lowest deficit in democracy. More people, less deficit. That was the result, Mr President! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u30	Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u31	Mr. President, Prime Minister, is talking about the year in which the debts of the National Health Service increased, in which they increased the late payments of the National Health Service, in which the waiting lists have grown, in which the citizens are claiming much more than they claimed from the service that is provided to them, Mr. Prime Minister. That's the year you're referring to! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u32	This is your vision of what the provision of public services is and these are the consequences of your choices. You chose to reverse reforms and now you're paying for it. Mr Prime Minister, I would like to ask another question: we know that the Government has decided to withdraw three territories from the black list of tax havens and we know that it has done so, perhaps fulfilling all the legal provisions. Thus, and asking for an objective response—because I believe it is easy and elementary—I wonder whether or not there was an opinion of the Tax Authority that Uruguay, the islands of Man and Jersey would have left the black list of tax havens. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u33	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u34	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, these three territories have come out because they have now met the criteria of cooperation, therefore of greater transparency, and according to the involvement of the Tax Authority in this decision. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u35	Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u36	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, objectively, we can then conclude that the Tributary Authority has given its opinion on this exit. Is that it? [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u37	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u38	Mr President, Mr Member, as you know, the Secretary of State and the Minister of Finance has already been heard in the Commission... [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]] ... and it was said that the Tax Authority was heard and that it was involved in the decision-making process. Yeah. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u39	Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u40	Mr President, Prime Minister, to be clear: to say that the Tax Authority has been involved means that there have been opinions or not?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u41	You have the floor, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u42	I can am amplify what Mr. Secretary of State of the Treasury is telling me here, next to me: the Tax Authority has been heard, has spoken and it is on the basis of which the Government has taken a decision. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD and CDS-PP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u43	Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u44	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, you still want to run away from the issue, but it is a very simple matter to address: take advantage of and tell the Secretary of State to refer Parliament immediately to the one who was the involvement of the Tax Authority and we can eventually conclude that anyone who spoke truth to Parliament may have been the Minister of Finance, who said something similar. But it is true that the State Secretary for Tax Affairs said in the European Parliament the opposite of what the Minister for Finance said, Prime Minister! [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]] And this is not the first time in the Ministry of Finance, a State Secretary contradicts what the Minister of Finance says. Mr. Prime Minister, is this your standard of behaviour of your government members? There is complete impunity, everyone says what they want and nothing happens, Prime Minister? One minister can say one thing and another Secretary of State and the Prime Minister will also say, as in Education, that we live normal times? Will the Prime Minister say that it is normal, when people get up in the morning and listen to radio, to hear a minister and a Secretary of State say exactly the opposite? Is that your standard? Is that the standard of this government, Prime Minister? [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u45	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u46	Mr Luís Montenegro, I do not know if it is normal, but I welcome the fact that the leader of the main parliamentary opposition bench in this debate focuses on a word game between « consultation» and « opinion » between a state secretary and a minister. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Mr Luís Montenegro, do you have no more to ask but make a word game between « consultation» and « opinion »? Don't you have anything else? [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] See that even I, who am Prime Minister and irritantly optimistic, was able to imagine several difficult questions that you could ask the government, but by the way, you do not ask them!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u47	Great! All right! [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u48	Mr Luís Montenegro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u49	Mr President, Prime Minister, if the questions were so easy, why did Mr Prime Minister not answer? [[PSD applause.]] [[PS protests.]] The questions we legitimately ask—and do what we want and what we think we should do—did they not do it? Is that it, Prime Minister? Isn't that the script that brought the debate today? Didn't you do it? Oh, my God! [[PS protests.]] Mr. Prime Minister, get used to it, because you're going to have to answer these and other questions. By the way, I will do one more to you and I hope you will answer this time, Prime Minister. You know why? Because she's a repeater, I've done it in practically all the debates: how is the study on the bad credit and the famous vehicle that you promised the country you were going to create? How's the question? [[Congratulations from the PSD and from the CDS-PP Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u50	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u51	Mr President, as far as the question is concerned, I have already answered. No, no, no, no. [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u52	... and, before I answered, the Ministry of Finance had already responded to all the requirements on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u53	It's a lie!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u54	As for the interesting question that you put on the misappropriate credit, which has been ignored for several years, I can tell you that there was still a meeting between the Ministry of Finance, the Bank of Portugal and the three main banks in the country with the highest level of non-performing credits on Monday,... [[Hey!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u55	... of higher risk credits, in order to present to the banks a proposal for a solution for them to study, to be able to respond, to be heard and to give an opinion on the matter. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u56	Mr Luís Montenegro, from the PSD Parliamentary Group, also speaks.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u57	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, although it refers to the occurrence of more of this meeting. We've been around for a year and a half to hear him talk about meetings,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u58	And you guys in four years did zero!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u59	...we've heard him talk about the calendar and that things were almost over. Even now someone from the administration of Banco de Portugal — which is by chance a very close person from the Socialist Party, Dr. Elisa Ferreira — said that there are currently no conditions for creating a vehicle to solve the problem of bad credit. And, according to Dr. Elisa Ferreira, there are no conditions because of European legislation. Mr Prime Minister, whether or not there are conditions in Europe now, the question is simple. Mr. Prime Minister will still have 9 minutes to answer the questions of the Socialist Party, which will be very difficult,... [[PSD laughter.]] ...but it'll take a minute or two to answer us. Stop talking, Mr. Prime Minister,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u60	Mr Luís Montenegro, you are no longer one minute or two, you have no time. Please finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u61	... and tell me what the solution is, who is going to fund this solution for the misdeeded credit, which, by now, let me tell you the « size of fece» — was created at the time of the governments of the Socialist Party. Mr. Prime Minister, at the end of a year and a half, after such a meeting, of so much talk, of so much objective, say what is the model,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u62	You have to finish, Mr. Deputies.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u63	...how it will be financed and how it will work, Prime Minister. These are the answers that give peace to the country.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u64	Thank you very much, Mr Luís Montenegro. You have to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u65	I will finish, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u66	Mr President, you really have to finish, because you have already exceeded your time in 1 minute and 15 seconds.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u67	Mr President, I would ask you to let me, in 15 seconds, tell the Prime Minister that we will continue to want to hear news that can reassure people. But notice that when people turn on the radio, they often hear about the increase in IMI, the increase in fuel and taxes, particularly indirect, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u68	The honourable Member has greatly exceeded the time of his parliamentary group. [[Congratulations from the PSD and the CDS-PP Member Filipe Lobo d’Ávila.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u69	To request clarification, Mrs Catarina Martins of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u70	Mr President, Prime Minister, I welcome you for choosing the theme of education for this debate, because it is a subject that tells us a lot. The PSD said that we are far from what is needed in the area of education. I would say more: we are far from recovering the public school from all the evils that have been done to it over the past few years.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u71	All right! [[Talk to the government bench!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u72	There are two topics that he mentioned that we think should be realized because they are essential to all other transformations, which have to do with the number of students per class and with the stability of the teaching and non-teaching body in schools. We understand that the OECD says — and rightly so — that at the moment what we have to discuss in schools in Portugal is the quality of education, because the number of hours, programmes and the number of students per class has been increased and the number of teachers has been reduced, thus creating an effective problem for learning in schools. And that is why they serve, for healthy and exciting learning pathways, in which students and teachers can get involved, which is impossible to happen in a school where teaching staff are lacking, where personal non-teachers are missing and where students are piled up in too large classes. And, Mr. Prime Minister, although they will decrease the number of students per class in the first classes of each cycle of TEIPE schools (Educational Territories of Priority Intervention), but we understand that they are less than 5 % of the classes covered! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u73	Really? Oh, my God! Great failure!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u74	There's a million students who're going to continue in crowded classes...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u75	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u76	...and, therefore, it's little, it's very little! When do we actually reduce the number of students per class in all schools, actually fulfilling what is included in the joint position that the Left Block and the Socialist Party have signed? And secondly, I refer to the question of the stability of school staff: 70% of the cuts made to public service during the time of the troika were - it was in schools, in education, 70% of the cuts that the PSD and CDS did were in teaching and not teaching staff! [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP João Pinho de Almeida.]] in the last 10 years, schools have lost 40 000 teachers and we know that the population is so old that 40 000 will retire in the next decade. We need to hire now! in the last fortnight debate, Mr. Prime Minister said that at the end of May the diagnosis would be made, as well as the still very small binding process that is under way. I said now that he wants to bind more. The question is: how many and how long? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u77	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u78	Madam Member, for the year we shall begin by where we should: through the schools where it is most priority - to ensure greater equality of opportunity. The TEIPE schools are precisely those where the quality of the school is most necessary to combat the inequality of departure, to improve equal opportunities and to have greater success in school. For that, we started out there, by a universe that covers 200 000 students...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u79	There are 200 000 students but only 1. year!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u80	... and 18% of school groupings. It's not the end of a path, but it's the beginning of a path and that's where we're going to start. Regarding stability, as you know, a binding process of 3000 teachers in a precarious situation is now being completed. What I said today, here, is that in January we have the right to make a new binding process. In fact, it is the timetable agreed with the unions, which we will respect and comply with. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u81	Mrs Catarina Martins has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u82	Mr Prime Minister, it is not even 200 000 students covered by this reduction in the number of students per class, 200 000 is the total of the TEIPE universe and is only 1. the year of each cycle — is less than 5 % of the students. Without reducing the number of students by class and without stabilising the teaching and non-teaching staff in schools, particularly by linking those who have been precarious for so long, all the rest we say about education is little more than a'verb-encher' and we really want a public school that knows how to respond to the country. [[Congratulations from BE.]] Mr. Prime Minister, in recent days public opinion has devoted itself to an issue that should never come out of our attention, which is that of excessive energy income. I note that the PSD did not have a word to say on this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u83	Well remembered! [[Protests by PSD Member Luís Montenegro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u84	There are colossal subsidies that are the portrait of privatizations that should never have happened when we deliver companies that should keep themselves public to private companies or, in this case, to the Chinese State. They are subsidies that were decided in absolutely nebulae processes, led by a small group of leaders, which circulated between PSD/CDS and PS governments, energy companies and the consultant who mounted this remuneration mechanism, the Boston Consulting Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u85	All right! [[Protests by PSD MP Emídio Guerreiro.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u86	Eduardo Catroga : PSD governments ( still from Cavaco Silva time ), and then REN and EDP and still negotiated the State Budget with José Socrates and the Troika memorandum; António Mexia : Galp, PSD Government / CDS, EDP ; Rui Cartaxo : Galp, PS Government, REN ; Miguel Barreto : to such consultant, PS Government, makes a company to sell to EDP ; João Conceição : consultant, PSD Government / CDS, consultant, PS Government, REN. in this circular door, decisions were made which, according to the regulator's accounts, means 2, 5 billion euros of overcosts in 10 years, paid by consumers. It was nothing less than half of the accumulated tariff deficit. It is good to remember that EDP can make beautiful museums by the river, but it took the State Budget to culture all year round. Did it have to be that way? Don't! [[Congratulations from BE.]] They notified the regulatory entity of this situation before contracts are made. The Competition Authority has alerted, the Consumer Defense has alerted, but we know that regulators have been able very little against the power of EDP. Then came the troika and cut the salary, rights, public services, but the excessive incomes that the memorandum also spoke remained there and were not touched. This year the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development ), in its report on Portugal, insists : « A stronger action to reduce remuneration schemes inherited from the past through the renegotiation of these previous contracts and the acceleration of the timetable for withdrawing guaranteed price schemes could result in more competitive energy prices ». In other words, these abusive contracts cause families and businesses to pay the most expensive electricity in Europe, in parity with purchasing power. It's a raid on the country. And at the moment, there is a strong consensus in Portugal that these incomes have to end. My question is very simple, Prime Minister : is it ready, either through a direct cut of these subsidies—as Spain did in 2006—or through its recovery through a new contribution designed to this end, finally ending with the pillage that makes Portugal the country with the most expensive energy in Europe? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u87	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u88	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, the action in education did not start or end in the link between teachers and did not start or end with the reduction in the number of students per class. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The action in education continued with the fundamental investment of we have again rehabilitated schools, because rehabilitated schools are essential for the improvement of the quality of education; continued with the introduction of free school textbooks for 1. the year and its generalisation to all 1. the cycle; continued with the priority given to combating school failure and early school dropout with the tutoring programs and with the programs carried out in each of the 800 groups; continued with the generalization of pre-school education to children up to three years, because we know that it is priority to extend preschool to three years to improve the chances of educational success; and continued — and this is very important — with the increase of coverage rate of school social action, which increased from 20 % to 26 %. Therefore, it is not "de verb-de-encher". What we are doing in education is putting education at the heart of public policies, because it is putting education at the heart of public policies that strengthen democracy and rescue the country from the trajectory of social regression in which it has lived in recent years. [[P.S.'s applause.]] It is also in this context that we have to look at energy policy, and we cannot underestimate what has been done. Today, thanks also to the contribution of the Left Block, 800 000 families benefit from the social electricity tariff. When we started this legislation, there were just over 60 000 families benefiting from this tariff. This year, for the first time, we had an increase in the value of the lowest electricity we've ever had. This year, we had the reduction in the price of gas for the industry. This year, for the first time, there was an auction of the components of this complex subsidization system which is the power guarantee whose result was a reduction of 56 % of the cost. This year, for the first time, the installation of a solar power plant was contracted without any kind of subsidization. It is this change that we have to make and, as long as the concession contracts are exhausted and they can be renegotiated, yes, we will renegotiate in order to adapt to the state of art today in technology and definitely end with the excessive price paid by the State in the field of energy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u89	Mrs Catarina Martins continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u90	Mr President, Prime Minister, we do not forget the way done and I fear - indeed, with quite a determination. But how can tutoring or other changes in schools really work when there are teachers who have 300 students per year? Oh, my God! And how can there be teachers with 200 students? How can there be schools where there is no school period where teachers are not missing because it is not possible to make the necessary replacements and because the system does not have teachers who need to be hired? Oh, my God! It is not possible for these changes to reach the lives of students and their learning courses if we do not reduce the number of students per class and if we do not have a teaching staff and a non-teaching staff stabilized. in the same way, we know the path made in energy and we know how EDP did not like anything about the social tariff, and yet we went to that struggle. But now we are going to the most difficult fight: to end what everyone, in Portugal, pays the extra. Not only is it the poorest who has the right to social tariff, it is everyone who lives in the country and who is paying more, it is the companies who are paying more. This energy cost pulls the economy down. There is a consensus in this Parliament and there is a consensus in national and international institutions: it is necessary to end the overcosts of energy and this is the time to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u91	You've outlived your time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u92	Mr President, I shall briefly conclude by using, in fact, the same availability that has already been granted, asking another question: when do the early pensions for whom started working as a child? Today, there are people in the galleries who have started working on the rocks at the age of 11 and who will have to breathe stone dust and carry the heavy load that they have every day up to the age of 66. Does anyone think that this is possible or fair and that it respects the dignity of those who work in this country? Oh, my God! It's a promise you've been waiting for too long. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u93	To answer, you have the floor Mr. Prime Minister, Antonio Costa.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u94	Mr President, Mrs Catarina Martins, if we found it possible we had not included in the Government Programme the need to reduce the number of students per class. If we anticipate the need to reduce the number of students per class, it is because we know that this is essential for the quality of education. And that's what we're doing. If the honourable Member asked me whether I would like to do at the same time in all the schools in the country, I would say yes, of course I would. It happens I can't. So I can't, I have to set priorities. Where is it more priority? It is more important to make an increased effort to correct the inequality of origin and to create better conditions for equal opportunities, i.e. in those areas where we have the highest school failure, in those areas where we have the greatest drop-out. And that is why we started in the TEIPs because it is there that it is priority to start a path, continue it and extend it to all schools, because all schools must obviously have the same conditions. Madam Member, we don't have any differences. The consensus that exists in this House — although it does exist — is a consensus for which the Government does not depart: it is necessary to reduce energy costs for everyone, but it happens that we have a contractual and regulatory legal framework that needs to be respected. We have already managed, with this, that this year's lowest ever rise in the electricity tariff for everyone, that there was a reduction in the price of gas for the industry and we hope that this progression will continue. [[PSD protests.]] It was for the same reason that, contrary to what the previous government had undertaken, we did not end with the extraordinary contribution of the energy sector and kept that contribution, because we are not satisfied with the regulatory framework that exists today or with the contribution it has. We also note that it is not by chance that companies such as EDP, who have kindly agreed to pay this contribution in the previous government, have become hostile towards the current government, going to judicially challenge what they previously accepted to pay gently. For some reason there was docility and for some reason there is now hostility. [[PSD protests.]] We will continue to fulfill our mission to work to reduce the cost of energy, because it is absolutely essential for us to have a better energy balance, cleaner, safer energy and the best price for our country's development. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u95	To ask questions, you have the floor of Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u96	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, he has brought us the subject of education, he has told us about tranquility, predictability, stability and some other things, but it seems to me that Mr Prime Minister is a little off the line of reality, because he has told us about social action at school and I have to tell him that there are payments behind schedule. Some families with more needs have not yet received payments from school textbooks, which did not happen in the past, and many doctoral and post-doctoral scholarships have not been paid throughout 2016. Therefore, Prime Minister, I suggest you start by finding out what these things mean well before you come to announce that this was, or is, a great priority of your government. Let me also say that, in terms of predictability and tranquility, we are closing one year and starting another. I have made some visits to schools and I was able to know, for example, on Monday, that new geographical criteria were applied in Benedictia's outpost and that many classes that benefit from association contracts were at risk. But it seems that in the meantime you realized it was a mistake and you're going to recover. in the Externato de Penafime were also reduced many classes, but next to another school, in Torres Vedras, which never had association contracts, suddenly, there will be classes that will benefit from them. Mr. Prime Minister, I don't know how you can talk about predictability. And the peace of mind, zero! I ask you one more question, yes, to give the students, the parents, the teachers, to whom you worked, not only this school year but also in the previous school year, to be able to take the 11 exams. the year now on June 21st: is Mr. Prime Minister or is he not in a position to tell us that there will be no strike or that all students will be able to take their exam calmly? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u97	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u98	Mr President, Mrs Cristas, I thought that I was going to express my satisfaction that, within the framework of normality, there had been a warning of strike for the next day 21. I still remember, a few months ago, Mrs Deputy censored us for stopping strikes in education and saying that we had given up education policy to a union that you, in fact, identified as a kind of devil. Do you remember what he was saying about FenPROF? Do you remember what Dr. Mário Nogueira was saying about?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u99	Answer the questions!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u100	I remember how he blamed us all last year on the fact that there are no strikes. Madam Member, is there now a warning of strike censorship for this? Oh, my God! I thought I was satisfied with a sign of normality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Madam Member, I am very hopeful that there will be good conditions for the strike warning not to be carried out on a strike, that the dialogue that has been maintained between this government and the trade union structures will yield fruitful results, taking into account the openness that has always been on the part of the government to respond positively. As for the issues related to the defrosting of careers, a global process is under way with regard to the whole of Public Administration and it will not leave education outside. As regards the age of the reform, as you know, it is a peaceful understanding that there should be no changes in the stipulation of age, but there should be a change in terms of creating conditions so that there can be a distinct functional content in those situations where there is effective discrimination, as is the case with monodocencing situations that do not benefit from the reduction of time. I take advantage, if you do not mind, to answer a question which I left to answer recently to Mrs Catarina Martins and which has to do with the possibility of early reforms at the age of 60 without penalty. According to our schedule, until July we will conclude this process, in terms of which I had already announced in an earlier 15-year debate. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u101	Mrs Assumption Cristas continues to use the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u102	Mr President, Prime Minister, the CDS does not change positions. We always understood that there was a false and agreed peace throughout this period, because, in fact, it wasn't all right, and we knew it wasn't all right.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u103	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u104	But now that you are doing so well with the unions, we ask and in some way we demand that this government ensure, with strike, without strike, with minimum services or without strike to be carried out on the 21st day, that people can have such predictability, such tranquility and such stability to carry out the tests on the 21st day, with regard to the effort that has been made all this time. In this regard, unfortunately, you do not know how to answer or not want to answer, nor did you answer the question about social action at school, because it is very uncomfortable, nor did you answer the question about association contracts, which are very uncomfortable because there are separate criteria. By the way, let me ask you a question about education: how many adults have passed through Qualifica centers and how many have already been trained in these centers? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u105	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u106	Mr President, Mrs Cristian Assumption, what is very unpredictable is the position of the CDS, that a few days complains that there are no strikes and other days complains that there are strikes ; a few days diabolizes FENPROF and other days divinizes it. Now, we have an absolutely secular attitude towards this matter. Therefore, social conflict is part of democratic life, it is normal in democratic life. We do not encourage social confrontation, we respect trade union structures and their autonomy. The role of the Government is to represent the general interest, manage all our policies, manage the resources that we have of the taxpayers, which are made available to the State, and seek to conduct the policy in the best way. If we can reach agreement, excellent, because it is always better an agreement than a conflict. When agreement cannot be reached and conflict exists, it is part of life. As I had the opportunity to say yesterday, the law provides that there is a possibility of minimum services for national examinations. So we are not going to be anticipating the final outcome of a negotiating process that is under way and for which I want to believe it will succeed. If you do not have, we will use the minimum services in accordance with the law to ensure that the examinations are carried out on the date when students, teachers and families are told that they are carried out. With regard to School Social Action, the indication given to me by the Minister of Education—and then I will have the document he has given me here—is that all the expenditure recorded is now paid. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u107	Mr Cristas, Member of the CDS-PP Parliamentary Group, is still speaking. Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u108	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, I take good note that on 21 June all students will be examined. I hope that will be a guarantee that this will happen. With regard to the School Social Action, I will not ask here whether what is recorded corresponds to reality. The reality we know, the criticisms we have heard and the letters and communications that come to us go in a different direction, and I will be very pleased to bring them to Mr. Prime Minister and Mr. Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u109	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u110	Mr Prime Minister, let me move on to another topic, on which I ask you a very clear answer, because there has been no clarity in this matter: the Holy House of Mercy enters or does not enter the capital of Montepio General. Question : Will the Holy House of Mercy enter the capital of Montepio or not? What indications does the Government give to the Holy House of Mercy? Why is this being thought or prepared? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u111	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u112	Madam Member, I would like to reply to a previous question which had not been answered. As I said in my speech, between March and May, 26 000 people have already been enrolled in the Qualifica programme, and 12 000 have already been referred for modeling training and 6000 for the recognition and validation of competences. On the question of the Holy House of Mercy, we respect the autonomy of management and trust in the management of Mr. Provider and his Bureau. It was to the government that asked if there was anything to oppose, no, you don't! It is positive that, in the context of the stabilization of the financial system, there is a bank that is a bank of the social sector. Therefore, we have no objection to the fact that, if this is the understanding of the Bureau of the Holy House of Mercy and its Provider, it can join and participate in the capital of Montepio. I think it would be good for the financial system and, if it is in accordance with the interests of the Holy House of Mercy, we have nothing to oppose. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u113	Please continue, Mrs Assumption Cristas.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u114	Mr President, Prime Minister, I am relieved to know that there are already enrolled in Qualifica centres, because there have passed zero and there have been zero formations so far. But it's good that they're already registered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u115	It's not bad anymore!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u116	On the question of Montepio, Prime Minister, my point is very simple. The Holy House of Mercy is not a Holy House equal to others, it is a State-owned body and is protected by the Ministry of Solidarity and Social Security. If the Holy House is interested in entering the capital of Montepio, our question to the Government is to see whether, in the Government's perspective, this makes sense, because it is good for the Holy House or why it is necessary for Montepio, from the point of view of the stability of the financial system, as Mr. Prime Minister spoke. I mean, who needs what here? Is it Montepio that needs capitalization? And why? How much? And under what circumstances? Or is the Holy House interested in making the investment? This cannot go side by side with the Government's opinion, which protects the Holy House. You can't step aside! Therefore, Prime Minister, I ask you to make it clearer in this matter. Is there a problem to be solved or not? Who's gonna solve it, how and why? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u117	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u118	Mr President, Madam Member, I believe that even the Provider of the Holy House of Mercy in Lisbon has already had the opportunity to explain several times that he is examining, that he will never accept to take that decision if he considers that he is not in favour of the interests of the Holy House of Mercy. The Ombudsman asked the procurator whether the government had anything to oppose, the government said no, nothing to oppose. however, we believe that, as part of the stabilization and diversification of our financial system, there is a positive bank in the social sector. In fact, I have seen in the social communication that other mercys of a different nature have expressed the same interest, that mutualist entities have also expressed this interest. We believe that this exists, but for the time being, we wait and trust the judgment that the direction of the Holy House itself will do, and if they ask again our opinion, we will say-CL at that time. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u119	You still have the floor to Mrs. Christian Assumption.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u120	Mr President, Prime Minister, I can only take good note, with some disappointment and regret, that the Government believes this is a subject which the Holy House must deal with alone, on its own initiative and take the decisions it understands. The Holy House has the exclusive of the social game in our country to apply exclusively in social action, and what I would like to think is that Mr. Prime Minister thinks, quietly, that eventually, he thinks that helping a bank in a difficult situation—and it remains to know whether it is or not and why this is a matter on the table—is also part of the social action of the Holy House. Is this what's at stake here or not? It's all right, it's all wonderful and there's a good investment opportunity on the part of the Santa Casa. Is this how Mr. Prime Minister wants to convince us? [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u121	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u122	Mr President, in order not to leave your next questions unanswered, because I have a short time left, I would like to thank the honourable Member for asking all the questions so that I can answer them together.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u123	You then have the floor to Mrs Assumption Cristas.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u124	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, you can always use the time of others................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u125	You've got PS time, which doesn't ask questions!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u126	But I can ask more questions, even because I have several. With regard to health issues—and much has already been discussed here and I do not have time to explore this whole issue—I can ask you the following question: Does the Prime Minister assure us that, following the budget implementation decree, which determines 35% cuts, everything, indeed, will be done, without prejudice to the quality for the users and the patients of our National Health Service? Can you assure us here that there is not even discomfort, not even clinical directions, perhaps resigning? This is the question I want to leave you. One last issue, which I cannot but focus on, is simply the following: Mr. Prime Minister did not answer the Democratic Social Party on the question of the three tax havens, which, by means of his government's political decision, have left the blacklist. This means that at present transfers to Uruguay, to Jersey and to the Isle of Man have no control or knowledge by the Portuguese Tax Authority. I ask whether Mr President lives comfortably with this and, if so, when will he send us the opinions of the so-called Tributary Authority that they suffer, or sustain, or justify the political decision that the Government has taken on this matter. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u127	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u128	Mr President, Madam Member, first of all, register that does not deposit in the Provider of the Holy House of Mercy of Lisbon the confidence that I have deposited so that he can, of course, assess...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u129	The Holy House depends on the government!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u130	... if it is in the interest of the Holy House of Mercy, or not, to make an investment in a financial institution such as Montepio. We trust, because, in fact, being a mercy with a different status, it is not a division of the State, it is not part of the direct administration of the State. As the most illustrious lawyer, she is sure to know that the legal nature of the Holy House of Mercy determines a specific relationship with the Government. Mr Provedor very correctly asked the Government if there was anything to oppose. Don't! We have maintained regular contact with Mr. Provider, either Mr. Minister of Labour or myself, and we are sure that Mr. Provider will make the proper assessment...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u131	Mr. Prime Minister, I ask you to conclude, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u132	... before taking a decision on this matter. Regarding the issue of health, I repeat, what we have been doing is increasing the number of professionals involved in the framework. last year, there were more 4000 and this year, only for doctors, will soon open a contest for more 1180. Now, what makes no sense is, simultaneously, having...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u133	You really have to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u134	I shall now conclude, Mr President. What we cannot at the same time have is the same work to be done by staff in the framework, as it should be, and by taskmasters. So if we have more people in the picture, we need to lose jobs.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u135	Please conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u136	This is what we are doing in a balanced way. As for the tax havens he referred to, they came out of this status, because they became cooperative entities. There is an exchange of information, there is more transparency and, therefore, today we have more information than we had before.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u137	You really have to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u138	Before there was no information and there was opacity, now there is transparency. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u139	As for the Tributary Authority's opinions, doesn't he say anything?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u140	To put questions on behalf of the CFP Parliamentary Group, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u141	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, thousands and thousands of Portuguese workers went out on the street last day 3. They expressed their dissatisfaction with many remaining problems, which needed to be answered, called for the recovery of work, including better wages, the defence of collective bargaining, better labour legislation, the end of precariousness, the enhancement of long-term careers with the possibility of early reform without penalties, the replacement of retired rights and the defrosting of public administration careers, but also required better public services and the strengthening of the social functions of the State, particularly in health and education. It was education that the government decided to bring the debate here today. We know that soon it will end the school year and then it will be time to make a more in-depth balance sheet. But it is unquestionable that there remains a feeling of frustration at the drag and delay of solutions to many inherited problems of the PSD/CDS government at school and school. Some positive steps have been taken to illustrate the freeness of school textbooks, the end of examinations of the 4. the e of the 6. the years of schooling and the measure of extraordinary linkage of teachers, which, however, is insufficient. However, there is a large number of problems for which there is a delay in solving: the precariousness of teachers and non-teachers; insufficient number of operational assistants, but also specialized technicians such as psychologists; classes with excess students; insufficient support for students with special educational needs; mega-groupings with thousands of students, which makes them ingestible and dehumanized. These are problems that remain detrimental to the quality of the teaching-learning process. I ask you, Prime Minister, when are we going to solve these specific problems? We know that it is easier to destroy than to build, we know that this policy of destruction has continued for decades, but it is time for construction and progress. We therefore ask for an answer to these problems. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u142	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u143	Mr. President, Mr. Jerónimo de Sousa, as I said, it is easier to destroy than to rebuild. The way has been done and we will continue to do so. For the year we will begin to reduce the number of students per class and we will start by where we should begin, by those groups of schoolsTEIP (priority educational territories) where it is more urgent to start doing this effort. We have already begun to bind precarious teachers and we will continue according to these needs; we have already started, as we remember, by assigning the free of charge of school textbooks only to 1. the year of 1. the cycle and then — in fact, on a proposal from the CFP — we have generalized the whole of 1. the cycle, and that's how we're going to keep doing. Now, if I wonder if all the problems will be solved within a year, then I say no. We will not have all the problems solved within a year, and we will have to continue to do this work. What we must first have is a very clear notion of what is the way forward, of the course we must follow and continue to do so, to initiate it. It is the same with regard to the other issues which you have raised because today there are more than 52 % of the workers covered by the collective contract than when we started this legislation. We have recently adopted legislation that agitates the extension gates to continue to extend the number of workers covered. We are currently concluding the process of starting the answer to the value of longer careers. A process of combating precariousness in public administration is already under way and we are also preparing for enlargement to the private sector. So we're responding. at this moment, he says that the increase in the national minimum wage is not yet sufficient. It is true, but in the two increases we made in 2016 and 2017 there has been an increase of 10 % of the national wage. Today, the available income of families is 3% higher than it existed. over 2016, the available income of families increased by 3 %. Therefore, in what we have to be firm and determined is to pursue this course, implementing the measures we have to implement, not to frustrate people and to fulfill the hope that people put in the path that this majority has opened in the country. This is what we must continue to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u144	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u145	Mr Prime Minister, also with regard to public services, we have been following the situation of public transport with concern. It is true that it has inherited a disastrous situation with public transport companies on the edge of the paralysis, due to lack of investment, by reducing operational frameworks below minimum requirements, by removing users, motivated by the reduction in supply and by the brutal increase in prices. It is true that it has had the merit of responding to the fair struggle of workers and to the proposals of the CFP and has reverted criminal privatisations which would have involved increased costs of hundreds of millions of euros annually for the state and for users, as has happened to all others. But after this initial impulse, the effective measures have been many promises and unsatisfactory. The Lisbon Metropolitan is a good example of this. More than a year ago, the government announced the hiring of 30 drivers. After all, it looks like only 20 and only 10 have started training. There are 20 more paralysed compositions waiting for maintenance, there are workshops that have been disabled, the maintenance of infrastructure continues with less workers, the ports of boarding with systematic failures and empty stations, because the hiring of required workers is refused. The situation is no different in river transport in the Tejo, where Transtejo and Soflusa have several vessels paralysed pending maintenance and part of the fleet at risk of, in the short term, losing the navigation certificates. Mr Prime Minister, the answer to this and other problems calls for another attitude and other measures, so we would like to know how the government will respond to this complex set of problems — it is true! — taking into account all the recent history. But the truth is this: better transport is required. Are there conditions for taking some basic measures, in particular for these three companies I have mentioned? As I say, Prime Minister, dialectics has this meaning: what was true yesterday may not be true tomorrow. And this environment of hope that has been opened up within the framework of the new political solution, the new phase of national political life, needs to be maintained so that dialectics does not work and becomes another feeling. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u146	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u147	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, the first fact is that today you have not had to ask me about the company agreement in the Transtejo and the Soflusa, which, as you know, is already exceeded and awaits publication in the Bulletin of Labour and Employment, which means that since our last debate at least that step has already been exceeded. And we're going over the others! on July 19 will enter the station of Arroios and, from that day, the entire Green Line will be able to have compositions of six wagons in order to improve the service. This year's State budget has strengthened Metropolitan's investment capacities by EUR 16 million and, recently, the expansion plan of the metro network, which does not cover the 20 stations that others want...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u148	That's just funny!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u149	... but that allows the central core of the network to be densified in order to improve the service throughout the network. This investment reinforcement is also being made at Carris and Metro do Porto. Only at STCP ( Corporation of Collective Transport of Port ) is currently open a contest for the acquisition of 297 buses and 15 electric cars, worth 70 million euros. This investment will also be made in Soflusa and Transtejo. Now, as we all know, the investment liability accumulated over four years was absolutely brutal, destructive, with the loss of millions of passengers, in the obsession of EBITDA(earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and depreciation) of transport companies. So everything was always presented very pink, but, really, it was all very orange in the state of operation of those companies. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u150	Mr Jerónimo de Sousa has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u151	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, with some tolerance, one last issue, which is with regard to EDP. Many justifications have already been given on the incomes of energy companies. What no one has yet been able to explain is why consumers have to bear these millions of profits from large energy companies and pay the most expensive electricity in Europe. There is no reason for this situation to remain, creating economic and social damage to small and medium-sized enterprises, consumers, productive sectors and the country. It has long been known our position on this history of EPCs (energy acquisition contracts) and CMECs (contractual balance maintenance costs) or, if you would like, the so-called 'excessive income', which, in our view, is a huge fraud that has worth millions of euros of monopoly profits to this company. These incomes are the result of what has been done by successive governments and are the original sin of this process: dismemberment of EDP, privatization and liberalisation of the electric market. These are superlucres derived from the monopoly position of EDP. in the last 10 years, the Portuguese paid more than 2500 million euros in CMEC alone, a number that would have to reach EUR 4 billion in 2011 in the projections, including other similar prebens. Millions who, in large part, still have to return! Our proposals are known in order to put an end to such mechanisms of extrusion of Portuguese, proposals plunged by political forces that have been in government in recent years.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u152	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u153	We think this is unacceptable. We have proposals. I would therefore like to know whether the Government is going to follow the CFP on this matter, seeking to end this unacceptable scandal in which the payers are the families, they are the small and medium-sized enterprises. [[Congratulations on the PCP and the Greens.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u154	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u155	Mr President, Mr Jerónimo de Sousa, we obviously accompany the concern of all to reduce the cost of energy and the charges to the State with energy. That is why, this year, we were able to have the lowest ever increase, since the market was liberalized, in the price of electricity for all families. That is why we all, together, have built solutions that have allowed us to extend the social rate of electricity, which covered little more than 60 000 families, to cover 800 000 families. That is why, this year, there has already been a reduction in the price of gas for the industry. That is why we have been supporting the installation of new technologies that produce clean and safe energy without any kind of subsidisation. Alcoutim's solar power plant was the first example, and we have to extend these examples. As contracts are being concluded, by exhaustion of their own deadline, we have conditions for them to be renegotiated, and obviously renegotiated, taking into account what is the new reality. And it is for us to bear in mind the disproportionate situation in the distribution of charges and responsibilities, within the framework of energy, that we have maintained the extraordinary contribution in the energy sector, for which there was the commitment, of the previous government, to eliminate and that we have maintained, despite the judicial conflict that we have been subject by the companies, in particular the EDP, which previously had a docile position and which has become hostile since the government changed. This means that we must continue this course and, of course, we are available to consider all the solutions that, in respect of...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u156	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u157	I will now finish, Mr President. As I was saying, we are available to consider all the solutions that, in respect of the legal framework, can effectively continue to reduce significantly the burdens that must be reduced for families, businesses and the state with the production and distribution of energy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u158	To put questions, you have the floor of Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u159	Mr President, Prime Minister, it is no novelty for the Greens to say that the attack aimed at public school by the previous PSD/CDS government was brutal, with a deep devaluation of professionals such as teachers, operational assistants or psychologists, with very concrete reflections on the students' learnings themselves. Mr Prime Minister says here, in this debate, that he is aware that the problems will not be solved within a year. It is well true that they are many and deep, Mr. Prime Minister, but from a year to a year we must be closer to your resolution, and that is what we need to understand. With regard to the linkage of the hired teachers, the government takes a first step with 3000 teachers; we, The Greens, say that it is little, in view of the reality of the hired teachers, which will significantly, more less, the 20,000. Therefore, Prime Minister, what is essential to realize is what is the government's plan to link more teachers. I believe I have heard here, in a reply which Mr Prime Minister has given, that « in January we have the right to make a new binding process». Would you like Mr. Prime Minister not only to confirm this date but also to tell me something else: how many more, Mr. Prime Minister? This to figure out how fast we're going to get closer to solving the problems. The reduction in the number of students per class, also mentioned in this debate, is something else we need to understand. For the TEIP schools is now indicated, so let's say, the number of students before then Minister Nuno Crato — is this replacement proposed by the government for the 2017 / 2018 school year. For the spring year 2018 / 2019, we will already take more steps to cover more schools, Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u160	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u161	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, first of all, 'yes', the timetable I have identified is that and, as I said, depending on the needs. We need to know what numbers we're talking about, because we've been hired, with full hours, throughout the year, 7,000 teachers. So 3000 is not a symbolic number. The 18 000 you are talking about, I think it was the number 18 000 you have employed, is the total number of teachers hired for a school year, but they are not full hours, not all year round. Many of them are teachers who are hired for much shorter periods or with much shorter times and very different situations. Therefore, we cannot confuse in this universe what is not confusing. The commitment we have made and which we have always reaffirmed was to ensure linkage to all those situations that are permanent needs and that it is not justified that they are made with precarious work, on the contrary, must give rise to linkage. As I have seen, I believe, in a highly publicized poster by the country, the permanent needs must correspond to a final contract. This is the rule and that is how we should do it. Regarding the rate of reduction of students by class, the question is whether, in 2018 / 2019, we will continue. Yes, we will continue - we will. By next year, 2017 / 2018, we will start with the TEIPs ; in the school year 2018 / 2019 we will continue beyond the TEIPs ; in the school year 2019 / 2020 we will continue; and in the school year 2020 / 2021, we will also continue. And what we want is that this can be continued, so as to cover the whole educational system. This is the way we want to go. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u162	Mrs Heloísa Apollonia has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u163	Mr President, Prime Minister, that is: for permanent needs a contract of work. What I want to know is whether, until the end of the legislature, the Minister ensures that all teachers who are in this condition, many of them hired 20 years ago, in fact, will have a real bond and a real contract for the performance of their duties, as Mr President has said, given the permanent needs of schools. I think it is very good that the work of reducing the number of students per class is continuing, but, Mr. Prime Minister, it is to reduce even, it is not just to rest. But we can talk about it later, continuing our conversations. Mr. Prime Minister, in the State Budget for 2016, The Greens, on his proposal, introduced an assessment of the allowances for the electro-producers centres, with a view to their reduction. And, in fact, these excessive energy revenues are a deep national shame. It is compensation, subsidies, guarantees of revenue that consumers and Portuguese taxpayers pay to those who "grow" at the expense of everything and everyone. The Portuguese pay and we have to finish this. Mr Prime Minister takes care of the words and says: « we have to renegotiate». But it's with a view to finishing up? What is the government's plan to end this national shame? I think the government has to say the deepest clarity, because I think the Portuguese...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u164	You've outlived your time, Mrs. Member, I ask you to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u165	I will finish, Mr. President. I believe that the Portuguese are completely fed up with paying for banks, large energy companies and all that is sharks and, indeed, Prime Minister, sometimes it costs to restore rights to Portuguese. We have made a path in this direction, but we must continue it more decisively and more quickly, Prime Minister. Please give my message to the Minister for the Environment if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u166	You must conclude, Mrs. Deputy.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u167	Tell him it is worth continuing to discuss Almaraz. Mr. Prime Minister, do you know that the process has already been handed over for the extension of the Almaraz nuclear power plant?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u168	Mrs Deputy, you have already far exceeded the time allocated to your parliamentary group, and I ask you to finish.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u169	And the fact that the government does not want to "strike" on the subject also harms Portugal. [[Congratulations from The Greens and some Members of the CFP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u170	I am sorry to have to cut the floor, but there must be time limits, and they must be relatively proportionate. You have the floor to answer, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u171	Mr President, Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, thank you very much once again for your questions. In relation to Almaraz, starting from there, because the other question has already answered him several times,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u172	He didn't answer, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u173	...the government is not silent on this matter, it seeks to treat it in the way it thinks appropriate, and we are going to deal with it, in order to resolve what is important to resolve. As far as the other issue is concerned, I have no doubt that we need to improve both the regulatory framework and the contractual framework. We have to do it. The former Government has already done a part of the work, with the result it has already achieved. We must continue this work. I have my own experience, in other functions, knowledge of how certain operators, including EDP, have several ways to get around, often with the inadequate coverage of regulatory entities, which is guaranteed. I will never forget, for example, how, when the municipalities managed to force EDP to get counters through the different distribution areas, they immediately changed, considering each counter as its own contract and the prices of public lighting of large consumers were eliminated, because everything was split, as if the same municipality were, at the same time, different consumers, one for each of the contracts. So I know these difficulties well, and if there is anything I can assure you, it will not have any good will. But we have a constitution, we have a law, we have a contractual framework and things have to be done under the Constitution and the law,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u174	I ask you to conclude, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u175	... with the very clear objective that families, businesses and state pay less than what they have paid for the cost of energy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u176	You have the floor to ask Mr Prime Minister questions, Mr André Silva.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u177	Mr. President, Prime Minister, education is the most powerful tool we can use to change the world. For the NAP it is essential that the education system educates on how we relate to others and to the planet, that schools be examples of best health and inclusion practices. in this sense, Portugal made history, even with a strong international echo, by implementing a vegetarian option in the public canteens. However, Prime Minister, the creation of the figure of the school nutritionist responsible for the implementation and implementation of a structured and sustainable school food policy is lacking in Portugal. Knowing that early nutrition intervention is also the first step in reducing pressure on the National Health Service, we ask, Prime Minister : what is the government's availability to ensure the presence of a nutritionist for each school grouping?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u178	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u179	Mr President, Mr André Silva, the Resolution of the Council of Ministers No 38 / 2017, which specifically authorizes the hiring and provision of the meal service, provides for the possibility of hiring nutritionists to monitor the development of menus and the monitoring of the quality of meals provided in schools. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u180	Mr André Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u181	Mr. President, Mr. Prime Minister, it is true. However, this contract is not guaranteed. By continuing to argue that the Government should provide the best examples in health education and environmental sustainability, we would like to challenge it. Is the government available to implement, already in the coming school year, a pilot project, in a group of schools to be elected, which aims to make meals with organic food and local production? at the end of this project, Mr. Prime Minister, students, parents, producers, Assembly of the Republic and Government would have more information about the advantages that the choice of biological and local food for the preparation of school meals can have throughout the country. Mr. Prime Minister, shall we move on?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u182	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u183	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today the Council of Ministers has adopted two very important resolutions that meet its concerns: on the one hand, the National Strategy for Environmental Education and, on the other hand, the National Strategy for Biological Agriculture and its draft action plan for the production and promotion of agricultural products and organic food. We are convinced that the decentralization programme in educational matters will, in fact, facilitate the implementation of projects with the nature it presented. The appreciation of biological production, short circuits, local and family-based food supply are projects that improve the quality of food and the greater the interconnection between the territory, the authority and the school community we will have in this regard. Ask if we want a pilot project. Yes, we would very much like to develop at least one pilot project next school year. Ask if we move on. Yeah, we go ahead, and we can go together. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u184	To conclude the debate, I give the floor to put questions to the Prime Minister, Mr Porfirio Silva, of the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u185	Mr President, Mr Prime Minister, for those who are concerned about the future of the country and the Portuguese, all occasions are good to talk about education. But this moment is particularly favourable, because when this government takes a little more than a year and a half of action, look at what has already been done gives a huge encouragement to the much that is still being done. We do not accept the naturalization of inequalities. When the socioeconomic level of families and the academic qualifications of mothers are predictors of school success, when we still know that education can make the difference, we assume this huge task, signed in the Program of this Government, which is the promotion of school success. The National School Success Promotion Programme is developed on the basis of nearly 3000 measures designed by schools themselves. But the promotion of success is a task with many dimensions, which extravagant the program itself in a strict sense. This is a free school manual programme, but, more generally, the support granted under school social action has steadily increased and will continue to be strengthened. It is also the generalization of pre-school education; it is the strengthening of the inclusion of students with special educational needs; it is the new model of evaluation in basic education, which took the evidence as an instrument of improvement of learning and not as processes of promotion of exclusion; it is the reduction of the number of students per class, which fulfils the first step already in the next school year; it is the appreciation of vocational education, with more vague and with the consolidation of the system of quality assessment; it is the retraining and modernization of the building;...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u186	Mr Porfirio Silva, I ask you to interrupt for only one second to ask the Members. Members of the CDS-PP bench who feel, or who leave, because they are thus harming the intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u187	It's indiscipline!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u188	Please continue, Member of the Commission.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u189	Thank you, Mr. President. As I said, this programme is the retraining and modernization of the building, which has been stagnated in recent years; it is the resumption of adult education; it is giving the young people the floor, with the initiative of the students, that the OECD ( Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development) has pointed out as a good example and is now promoting internationally. It should be stressed that the wager in education has also been the wager in valuing professionals. It was the end of the requalification for teachers, the regularization of the reimbursement of the CAP ( Knowledge Assessment Test ), the end of the ECB ( School Contract Exchange ), was the strengthening of the recruitment of operational assistants now with prospects for future linkage, and the ongoing review of the portfolio of the ratios. There have never been as many teachers in schools as this year. And the fight against job insecurity is advancing. The work standard has been improved, the extraordinary linkage will immediately cover more than 3000 teachers and the government has always said that there will be new moments of extraordinary linkage, according to the needs assessment. Trust in teachers, as professionals, is in itself a bet on educational improvement. He returned the investment in continuing training, after several years in which teachers, if they wanted training, had to pay for their own pocket; he is preparing to create a recruitment group of Portuguese Gestual Language; the intervals of 1. the cycle will begin to count to the time; there comes the harmonization of the pre-school and 1 calendars. the cycle. Whoever says we need too much, that's right. Whoever says this is little, it's not looking close enough to reality. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. Prime Minister, also in education the legislature began with a high degree of cliché. It was a time of gristification that was due to an opposition that defended that, where there were private schools, it was not worth investing in public schools.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u190	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u191	Today, the environment is very different, families, students, teachers know that it is building convergences that progress. This new atmosphere is very the result of the confidence that has been invested in schools; it is the result of the commitment to the sustained construction of the autonomy of schools, giving pedagogical substance and curriculum to this autonomy, notably with the line of work of autonomy and flexibility, which, instead of being more a compressor role of centralist and bureaucratic reforms, is based on a strategy of gradualism and construction, from each school and each local community. It is important to uphold that this autonomy of schools will not be blocked by the decentralization of competences for the authorities, because what is to be done is to cross two success stories of democratic Portugal: local power and public school. More decentralization and more autonomy for schools. Mr Prime Minister, « Rome and Pavia did not happen one day ». [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u192	It is wrong to think that the elections are the end of the legislature. The much that has already been done encourages us to the much that is still being done for the construction of a decent society, also in education. We therefore welcome the initiative to come here today to debate education and that is what we want to hear from you, Prime Minister. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u193	In reply, Mr. Prime Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u194	Mr President, Mr Porfirio Silva, I confess to you the embarrassment because I am unable to say more and better than you have said about what has been the implementation of our government policy. Now, what would you like to underline? It is that the centrality of education is not exhausted in the education system. It is essential for the strengthening of democracy and for the development process of our country. It is essential for democracy because, in fact, only a country with culture and education is an informed country, with demanding citizens who contribute to having an active citizenship, and only active citizenship gives life to democracy. It was not by chance that the dictatorship fought education, it was because it knew that education was the greatest threat to its own survival. That is why democracy is strengthened by investing in education and it is not by chance that one of the great successes, as I said, of our democratic regime is the public school. It is this success that we must continue, because if we want more and better democracy we must continue to invest in education. But education also has to do with our development. What deeply divides this House is the conviction we have, on the one hand, that our development will always be based on qualification and innovation and, on the other, on what the Portuguese right has, feeds and that it is unable to free itself, on the contrary, at the expense of the low wage, of the destruction of rights, of the precariousness that we will be productive and competitive. It was and it is a failure and it has no future.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u195	It's pathetic!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u196	But in order to have the qualification and innovation as drivers of our development, we must have education at the heart of public policies. That is why it is as important for the strengthening of democracy as for our social and economic development to invest in education. That is why this must be a complete and continued passion for political action. The successes we have today in international reports are not the work of this government, the previous government or the immediately preceding one. They are the work of a continuing policy based on an Education Basics Act that is 31 years old, they are the fruit of a Pre-School Education Framework Law that is 20 years old, and it is only in the continuity of educational policies that we will be able to achieve this success and achieve these results. If we do not, we will not succeed, we will not strengthen our democracy or succeed in our development. That is why we must continue and that is what we are going to do. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u197	Mr Carlos César has the floor to ask questions by the PS Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u198	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Prime Minister : I would like to leave a small note to conclude this debate after we have talked about the central issue that the Government has proposed to be education. I do so to remind you that, in past debates, the Government has always sought to introduce other issues of relevance to the Portuguese, calling on parliamentary parties to discuss them. But the truth is that these issues have rarely been dealt with, especially by the opposition, with the proposed deepening. Today, the PSD was no exception. It took four years to invest in education. It took four years to spend patience and devalue the commitment of educators, families, students. It took four years to advise teachers to emigrate and did not spend two minutes to discuss the education and qualification of Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But they say, or they say, that they changed the speech. The opposition always wanted to find in these television debates an opportunity to mention or insinuate a data or statistical, economic or financial information that resembles a failure and, in the rest of the time, zurzier the Government of the revisions, which, they said, made the chart of the past, and still predicted the worst consequences, usually spoke in four: the collapse of the economy, the chaos in the labour market, major difficulties for the people and the hecatomb in the public finances. Now, obviously, they don't want to talk about it anymore. Don't even want to talk about it! But then why? It's good to remember why. They don't want to talk about it because the economy, after all, has grown! They don't want to talk about it, because unemployment, after all, has dropped! [[P.S.'s applause.]] They don't want to talk about it because family income has finally increased! And they don't want to talk about it because managing public accounts is, after all, a success. They do not want to talk about it because the opposition has failed and because the government has not failed, for the benefit of all Portuguese. [[P.S.'s applause.]] But more: after the initiative to say that what is good happens, or might happen, if it is due to the previous government, or to an unknown providence, now « they have put the rape in the bag». in fact, the disembarkation exceeded the plausible. How could the opposition claim to be the reason for the successes of the path he has hidden, for the changes he has fought and for the policy he has always condemned? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Prime Minister, still yesterday the OECD, which is not exactly a department or study office of the Socialist Party, noted this : it has seen the economic growth for Portugal and the investment, which improves seven times more its previous forecast, exports will reach records and, in 2017 and 2018, the unemployment will be below two digits, that the improvement of public accounts will continue and that the reduction of public debt will occur in these two years.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u199	I would ask you to conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u200	I remember, Mr President, in conclusion, that although our country still has a very high poverty rate, we have reached the lowest poverty rate of the last five years and the highest growth in the income available to families over the past eight and a half years. That is why the opposition no longer wants to know about the economy, it doesn't want to know about employment, it doesn't want to know about income and it doesn't want to know about public accounts anymore! [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u201	Thank you, Mr. Commissioner, you really have to conclude.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u202	Finally, Mr President, I conclude with the following: there is therefore no reason for hope for Portugal. The Government has a great responsibility to honour its parliamentary commitment and the confidence and hope that the Portuguese have in it. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u203	Mr. Prime Minister has the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u204	Mr President, Mr César, stressed what is essential: the opposition has a little talk, always looking for the subject to focus on the attack on the government. As you fail in your forecasts and none of the announced catastrophes will happen, you are looking for a new theme to attack the government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u205	Did you want to choose our theme too? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u206	What is absolutely extraordinary is that Mr Luís Montenegro, much like Mr Luís Montenegro, in fact, with Mr Luís Montenegro that we used to see over the past few years in front of the PSD bench,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u207	It's the same!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u208	... all of a sudden, I don't think we live in a pink world either in education or in health.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u209	What about the bank?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u210	We are certainly not in paradise, far from it, but we are certainly better than we were a year and a half ago when this government took possession. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[Protests from PSD Members.]] What we have to aspire to is, from this year and a half, we will be much better than we are today, because there is a lot of work to be done. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] The country has structural problems, which have been aggravated by the four years of governance of the PSD and the CDS. It is extraordinary to hear them say today, for example, that we have a very high number of NPL (non-performing Loan) in the Portuguese bank that were formed before they reached the government...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u211	It was the government of Socrates!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u212	... and that since we got to the government nothing has happened. It gives me the will to ask: then, what will have happened in the meantime? What have they done in the four years in which they were government? Oh, my God! [[P.S.'s applause.]] If the problem was before the magnificent governance of the PSD and the CDS and if it persists now and we do not solve it this year and a half, what have you done in the previous four years? What happened was very simple: during the previous four years, they struggled to hide what were the effective problems of our financial system, they did not solve any of the existing problems... [[Protests by CDS-PP Member Hélder Amaral.]] ...and they left to the government that had happened to them the need to go and solve these problems one after the other. Today, fortunately, we have only one problem to solve. Of the seven that we have inherited for resolution, six, fortunately, are already exceeded. [[P.S.'s applause.]] They talked about waiting lists. It is true that the number of users enrolled for surgery has increased. There was a 3% increase in the number of users of the National Health Service who sought surgery. But we need to know more: we need to know, in relation to the waiting time for surgery, that the median has already decreased by 8% in all diseases and, in particular, in oncology, by 21%. That is, there are more people to sign up, but there is less time to wait for surgery in all diseases and in particular with regard to oncology. The same applies to education. Obviously it is necessary to do more and better. But what is certain is that this year and a half we have done better and better than what had been done and so today we have better results than those that existed before. [[P.S.'s applause.]] What is important to stress, Mr César, is that we have not only had better results in the economy, we have not only had better results in the implementation of the budget. We had better results in the economy and in the implementation of the budget because we made a different policy and, in many cases, contrary to the policy of the previous majority. [[PSD protests.]] It is true when they say we revert their decisions. Let's reverse it! Let us reverse the cuts in pensions, because we reject the pensions in the values that were due. [[P.S.'s applause.]] Let's reverse the cuts in wages, because we paid the wages that were due again. We have made different and that is why we have today better results in employment policy and income policy, and that is what has returned confidence to citizens, which is the key to investment growth, to modernising our business fabric that has allowed them to continue to grow exports, gaining market share. contrary to what they say, we're not going to anyone's ride. We are growing more than the European Union grows, we are accelerating more than accelerating the euro zone, we are creating more jobs than creating the euro zone, so we are not on anyone's table. We are going through the efforts of the Portuguese, the merit of our investors and the success of the economic policy that we have been pursuing and that we will continue to continue to pursue, but will be calm and determined. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-06-08.u213	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we have reached the end of the debate with the Prime Minister on our agenda today. We say goodbye to the Prime Minister and to the Members. Members of the Government. The next plenary meeting will be tomorrow at 10 a.m. and will have the following agenda : from point one there is a marking of the CDS-PP in which draft resolutions Nos 903/ XIII will be appreciated ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote, within the Standing Committee on Social Consultation, the debate on the implementation of the leave without extraordinary remuneration and the evaluation and in-depth evaluation of the Cheque-Training measure ( CDS-PP ), 904 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government initiate, within the Standing Committee on Social Affairs, a debate with a view to recognizing and implementing the right to lay-off of workers and to include new situations which may be admissible for the exercise of telework, as well as regulating the exercise of telework in public service ( CDS-PP ) and 905 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government initiate, at the social level, a debate with a view to improving collective bargaining, in particular to resume the 2014 conciliation agreement providing for the reduction of expiry and survival of collective labour contracts ( CDS-PP ). point 2 shows the assessment of Bill No 60 / XIII ( 2 ). ( a ) — Extraordinary housing support for all families affected by the August 2016 fires in the Autonomous Region of Madeira ( ALRAM ). in point three shall be discussed draft law No 421 / XIII ( 2. ( a ) — Amendment of the denomination of « Parada do Bouro » in the municipality of Vieira do Minho, to « Parada de Bouro » ( PSD ). in point four, the assessment of draft resolution No 853 / XIII ( 2 ) shall be made. ( a ) — Adoption by the Assembly of the Republic of the European initiatives considered as priority for the purpose of scrutiny under the European Commission's 2017 work programme ( EAC ). Finally, the last item on the agenda contains the vote on the Rules of Procedure. I wish everyone a good afternoon. The session is closed. [[It was 17 hours and 9 minutes.]]
