ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u1	Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is not yet present, but as there are dossiers and announcements to be made, we will begin the session. [[It was 10 hours and 4 minutes.]] I ask the officials of authority to open the galleries to the public and Mr. Secretary, Mr.António Carlos Monteiro, to proceed with the reading of the file.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u2	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members have entered the Bureau and the following legislative initiatives have been admitted: Bill No 103 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Third amendment to Decree-Law No 138 -A / 2010 of 28 December, which creates the social rate of supply of electricity ( ALRAM ), which falls to 6. the Commission ; motions for resolutions Nos 59 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Additional Protocol to the Treaty between the Portuguese Republic and the Republic of Cape Verde on the Joint Monitoring of Maritime Spaces under the Sovereignty or Jurisdiction of the Republic of Cape Verde, signed in Lisbon on 17 December 2014, which falls to 2. the Commission, and 60 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Headquarters Agreement between the Portuguese Republic and the Permanent Arbitration Tribunal, signed in Lisbon on 16 June 2017, which falls to 2. the Commission ; drafts of lein.o 658 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — establishes the obligation of audits to systems with possible impacts on the quality of the outdoor air, in particular the research of the presence of legionellasp colonies ( third amendment to Decree-Law No 102 / 2010 of 23 September 2010 ) ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 659 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — restores the obligation of internal air quality audits and research of legionellasp colonies ( fifth amendment to Decree-Law No 118 / 2013 of 20 August) ( BE), which falls to 11. the Commission, 660 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — The purpose of suspending eucalyptus planting until the entry of the new legal regime applicable to logging and reforestation actions ( PAN ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 661 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates the military emergency unit ( PSD ), which falls to 3. the Commission, 662 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates a national programme to support victims of the 2017 fires that affected the Portuguese territory for the recovery of the housing park ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 663 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Measures to support enterprises and to resume economic activity in areas affected by forest fires ( PSD ), which fall to 6. the Commission, 664 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishs the competitive procedure for the recruitment of the leading positions of the Integrated System of Protection and Relief Operations ( SIOPS ) ( PSD ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 665 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Amends the territorial limits of the parish of Boivães and the Union of the Frequencies of Crasto, Ruivos and Grovelas, of the municipality of Ponte da Barca ( PSD ), which falls to 11. the Commission, and 666 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Creates the order of social workers ( PS ), which falls to 10. the Commission ; and draft resolutions Nos 1112 / XIII ( 3. ( a ) — Recommends that the Government determine the immediate reduction in the production of Celtejo ( BE ), which falls to 11. the Commission, 1113 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — for the safety of rail traffic ( CFP ), which falls to 6. the Commission, 1114 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to respond to the state of abandonment and degradation of the Cromeleque dos Almendres, Menir dos Almendres, Anta Grande do Zambujeiro and Cromeleque Vale Maria do Meio ( PSD ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 1115 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Establishment of professional fire crews throughout the national territory and enhancement of volunteering ( PSD ), which falls to 1. the Commission, 1116 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government promote a new national forestry policy ( PSD ), which falls to 7. the Commission, 1117 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government introduce in public procurement mechanisms to ensure greater quality in school meals ( CDS-PP ), which falls to 8. the Commission, 1118 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government take measures to respond to the state of abandonment and degradation of the Roman Villa of Our Lady of Tourega ( PSD ), which falls to 12. the Commission, 1119 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government, within the framework of the European Union, integrate permanent structured cooperation in the field of security and defence ( PS ), which falls to 4. the Commission, 1121 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Permanent structured cooperation in the field of security and defence ( PSD ), which falls to 4. the Commission, 1122 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government measures to combat erosion of slopes due to fires ( PSD ), which fall to 7. the Commission, 1123 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends that the Government save and value the cortical industrial heritage of the Robinson Factory in Portalegre ( The Greens) and 1120 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Recommends to the Government amendments to support small farmers, provided for in Portaria No 347 -A / 2017, of 13 November ( PSD ), which falls to 7. the Commission. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is also important to take into account a report and opinion of the Ethics Subcommittee of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, Rights, Freedoms and Guarantees, which must be voted on immediately. The report and opinion relate to the suspension of the mandate in accordance with Article 4 ( 1 ( a ). Article 5 ( 2 ) and ( b ). the Statute of the Deputies, of the Member of Parliament Jamila Madeira ( PS ), the electoral circle of Faro, being replaced by Mrs Ana Passos, with effect from 8 November, including. The opinion is in the sense of suspension and the replacement in question is to be admitted, as legal requirements are found.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u3	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the opinion is under consideration. [[Pause.]] If there are no requests for a word, we shall vote for it. [[After the vote, it was adopted unanimously.]] Let us, then, enter our agenda, which today, as you know, Mr. Members, for the special purpose of the proposals of lein. 99 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Great Plan Options for 2018 and 100 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the State budget for 2018. We begin with the debate, in the specialty, of the Great Plan Options for 2018, for which the Bureau is awaiting registrations. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Members, having no registrations, we enter the debate, in the speciality, of the State Budget for 2018, beginning with Article 2. o — Strengthened value. To speak on this article, Mr António Leitão Amaro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u4	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government or, I would say, members of the government, because this Executive does not govern, is governed. This government is governed by circumstances,... [[BE's protests.]] ...is passively letting it happen, including state failures and tragedies in the country, and awaits to act reactively. This Executive is governed by the pressures of particular interests. Even more legitimate than the particular interests, what is expected of a government is that it governs for the general interest and for the public interest.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u5	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u6	It is governed, when it is blocked by this majority, whose only programme is to go back to the recovery of sacrifices that the previous government had already begun and that it had been caused — and no doubt! — by a socialist government. Yes, this isn't an executive who rules, he's a government executive, but it doesn't do well! Pedrogão happened, the Budget was prepared several months later, delivered several months later, but another tragedy was needed to bring proposals from the Government here. In the face of pressure, how does the government react? Disorientated, confusing and confusing Portuguese messages and generating expectations so often unsustainable. Yes, it also reacts and acts badly in the implementation of this single programme which it has and which calls « returns ». After all, even this programme of returns has been made at the expense of extraordinary measures in the revenue—yes! — but of seizures and cuts in historical public investment, i.e. of the sacrifice of the social state, which they said to defend. It is a government unable to make structural consolidation and which places all the records of budgetary measures on domestic consumption, when the whole country and even the government rhetoric have already recognized that the national economy must have its engine in exports and investment. Yes, this State Budget is a mirror of this government! It follows the socialist motto of always: « winning sheet, spent sheet », moreover, have now exchanged, euphemistically, and say « winning sheet, distributed sheet ». Yes, it also performs a beautiful mirror of this government, of the government of several and not just of one member, who says that Portugal is a country alone and abandoned to its fate! That's how you treat our country! We need a country that deserves a different government, and the country deserves a different government and budget. That is why we have brought here a number of proposals, not hoping that you will approve them all or the majority and, much less, that your bad budget will change to a good budget, but let us not fail to contribute and show differences. We need a country more focused on creating wealth that makes the distribution sustainable and lasting, a country with more social and territorial cohesion. That is why we have brought forward a number of proposals for sustainable creation of wealth, with measures that are being put by companies, which are pushing for their capitalisation, scale gain and competitiveness. Yes, measures that improve the taxation of business investment, especially in small and medium-sized enterprises, many and many measures that encourage savings, including those of workers in the capital of the company where they work, various measures that promote, facilitate and boost exports. Don't forget, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the government, who, in order to distribute wealth, need to be created, and sustainably; in order to distribute today and tomorrow we need a sustained creation of wealth. Therefore, the PSD brings dozens of proposals for sustained wealth creation, but also proposals for more social cohesion, proposals for current and future pensioners, especially those with more dependence, proposals that protect young people, especially those who are looking for a home, proposals that help immigrants who want to return to Portugal, proposals that support families with children and want to have more children, including those in situations of economic insufficiency. Measures supporting prisoners whom the Government has cut in the food budget, therefore, measures for more social cohesion, but also measures for more territorial cohesion, against which you want to leave alone and abandoned for your own sake. Measures to combat drought, measures to support the autonomous regions that you discriminate against negatively,... [[PS Members' laughs.]] ... domestic measures, from which you want to draw Community structural funds to send to the most populous areas. Finally, measures to protect self-employed people, whom you want to punish with an increase in taxes. They called it « move» into the simplified regime; after all, they began by creating a complicated regime and, with the changes of the PS, the country has already realized that it is a supercomplicated regime, and supercomplicated, whereby independent workers, liberal professionals, farmers and small entrepreneurs, because of this government, will pay much more taxes. Against all this, against this government, which is ultimately governed, are the proposals of the PSD — signs from a different path to a much better country. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u7	Mr João Paulo Correia has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u8	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This budget is the maximum aid effort for people and families, without jeopardising the budgetary balance, the credibility of the management of public finances and the macroeconomic targets set by the Government and the Government Programme. It is a Budget that gives continuity to the economic policies initiated in 2015, with the recovery of income, the increase in pensions, and with measures highlighting the end of the overtax of IRS (tax on income of natural persons ), the revision of the steps of IRS and the extraordinary increase in pensions. This Budget also has as its main objective the strengthening of social cohesion, with the increase in family allowance, the increase in the Solidary Supplement for Older People, the new Social Benefit for Inclusion and more and better employment. A third strategic objective of this Budget is support for companies, with measures to encourage the capitalisation and restructuring of enterprises, the advancement of the Simplex programme, simplification and administrative modernization, which has greatly saved our companies, the increase in public investment and the achievement of the EUR 2000 million allocation target of Portugal 2020 to companies by 31 December 2018. This is a Budget with the future, because it continues to ensure decisive reforms for the country, from the very beginning the sustainability of social security, the solidity of the labour market, the consolidation and stabilization of the financial sector, with the public recapitalisation of the General Deposit Box and the sale of the New Bank, as well as balanced and sustainable public accounts. All of this has led to the growth of our economy at levels above expected. The Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group has put forward around 100 proposals for amendments to the budget, in the sense that, as I said at first, a maximum effort to support people, families and businesses. These proposals are based on parliamentary hearings, civil society hearings and dialogue with the Government. We have put forward proposals focused on youth and education, autonomous regions, local power, health, sports, social action, agriculture, culture, citizenship and equality and transport. We have also presented a set of new measures to respond to the tragedy of fires, which are in addition to the measures contained in the original budget proposal. These new measures, totalling EUR 387 million, are focused on the reconstruction of housing and businesses, strengthening prevention, strengthening fire fighting and supporting institutions. The participation of the PS Parliamentary Group in this process of discussion, as a matter of specialty, of the Budget ensures the necessary budgetary balance. And, therefore, we must not fail to denounce the unresponsive behavior of the right. PSD and CDS sprayed this Budget with proposals that, if approved, would start to fire public spending.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u9	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u10	The overwhelming majority of these proposals could have been submitted and implemented in the previous government, PSD and CDS, but it was not, or because they did not want or because they were unable to implement. PSD and CDS follow a strategy of sabotage of the Budget and in this sense will face the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, which will do everything to prevent this assault on public expenditure, with the intention of sabotage of the State Budget for 2018. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u11	You have the floor, for an intervention, even in the context of the discussion of Article 2. o Mr Paulo Sá.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u12	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Government, Mrs and Mrss. Members: The proposal for the State Budget for 2018 integrates a set of advances that result in decisive action and intervention by the CFP, among them we highlight the increase in pensions, the replacement of the rights of employees of the Public Administration and the tax relief on labour incomes. But, as we have stated, it is possible to go further in the replacement of rights and incomes, as it is necessary to counteract some negative aspects that still persist in the proposal for a State Budget. It is precisely in this sense that we have intervened in the debate in the field of specialty and we have presented more than one hundred proposals for amendments: proposals that strengthen public services; proposals that increase social support for employees and reformed people, children and people with disabilities; proposals to support micro and small businesses, farmers and fishermen; proposals to ensure more fiscal justice; proposals to support victims of fires, to defend the rural world and forest; proposals to reduce energy costs to families and businesses; proposals to put an end to public-private partnerships; proposals to ensure that career progress has full time of service and that public administration workers are treated with equality. To strengthen public services and social functions of the State, we eliminate captivating in health, education and transport areas, exempt chronic patients from moderate rates, extend the freeness of school textbooks, advance to the integration of research scholarships, defend more student residences and less suitable in higher education. In order to strengthen social support for the unemployed and reformed, for children and people with disabilities, we eliminated the 10% cut in unemployment benefit, extended the measure of support for the long-term unemployed, valued the long-term contribution careers, improved family allowances, increased the number of pre-school education rooms, proposed the freeness of the multi-use of disability certificate and strengthened the social provision of inclusion. In order to support micro and small businesses, farmers and fishermen, we extend the VAT system (value added tax) and create the current account system, reduce electricity costs in agricultural activities, make the gas support measure final in artisanal and coastal fisheries. For greater justice and fiscal equity we again reduced the rate of IMI (municipal property tax), we allowed the IRS to deduct the old incomes of older tenants, we increased the spill over large companies and the tax on very high incomes. With regard to fires, the CFP proposed a set of 44 structural response measures to the problems of the rural and forest world, including support and compensation for victims. These are the proposals that the CFP brings to debate in the specialty, proposals that lead further to the replacement of workers' and people's rights and incomes, proposals that respond to people's problems, proposals that contribute to national development. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u13	Mrs Cecilia Meireles has the floor for an intervention.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u14	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS from the beginning looked at this State budget and realized that it was before a budget of austerity, hidden behind a speech that promises everything to everyone at the same time.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u15	All right! [[Protests by PCP MP João Oliveira.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u16	From the beginning also, we asked to present for each critique an alternative and explain that there was an opposition with a strategy for the country and an alternative for Portugal. We would like to recall, at the moment when we started the discussion in the field of expertise, the three questions we left here, in the discussion in general, because they correspond to three proposals. in the general discussion, the CDS asked the government if it was available to create a tax status for the interior with the simple aim of fixing people,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u17	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u18	... which necessarily implies creating jobs and setting up companies. This regime has to be simple, it has to work and it has to be durable, we have to be talking about a reform for decades and not just for years. We now propose the creation here in Parliament of a committee made up of parties, local authorities and academics and working to find a solution that passes through the IRS and the IRC (tax on the income of legal persons) but may even go through another one that has to do with social tariffs or the TSU ( single social rate). We hope that this House will respond to this challenge and that it will do so in a positive way. in the same way, at that time we also left the following question: was the government available to end the seizures in vocational training and in the centres protocoled with the IEFP (Instituto do Emprego e Educação Professional)? Well, after the Minister of Finance has repeatedly denied the captives in this matter and sometimes even enjoyed the subject, it seems that the PS has recognized the importance of preserving these opportunities, which have been lost for two years.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u19	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u20	It is excellent news for our exporting industry, but it is even better news for those who, as they can invest in their training and creating opportunities, will not see the same losses forever because of government budget management.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u21	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u22	Thirdly, we asked whether the Government was available to eliminate its amendments and the announced end of the simplified regime. It is unfortunate that there is a lost opportunity here, because what the PS presents may be called many things, but calling the proposal'simple regime' or'simplified' is frankly absurd, since it could not be more complex than what is presented.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u23	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u24	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u25	The CDS also presented several proposals, in a set of 90 proposals, aimed at signaling an alternative to people, families and the economy. This is the case for many measures for companies, which are, in fact, the poor relative of this Budget, but it is also the case for many measures for people and families. Finally, we have left concrete proposals that make budget numbers correspond to speeches. Many times this was visible, throughout the whole debate we had in the specialty, in the speeches we heard, when they said to us: "It is all solved, there is no problem", but the allocation that is there, the number that is there, does not correspond to the speech. We therefore put forward a number of proposals that make the pledges of the members of the Government correspond to the appropriations that are in the Budget and that correspond to the basic obligations of the State. Our proposal, for example, to strengthen prisoners' food money is precisely that, responds to a government promise and, if so, to an obligation of basic human decency. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u26	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Mariana Mortágua.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u27	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : We will begin voting today on a proposal that lowers the IRS to whom we work, which increases the pension to whom we have already worked, which guarantees more social support and more protection to whom we need, which defuses careers in public service and takes steps to combat precariousness in the state. The proposal to vote today is, in general, the result of a negotiation that has respected the agreement that exists between Bloco and PS and that has been made within conditions and limitations that we already knew. These limitations, which are the PS's commitment to the absurd goals of Brussels and which are the denial of the need for debt restructuring, translate into invoices, too heavy, of interest, which have their correspondence in insufficient investments in public services, education, health, in the development of the social state. The speciality of the State budget will not erase the limitations of this budget, but it can, and should, deepen the solutions that are the result of the negotiation and, therefore, the Bloc has made several proposals, more than 100 proposals, for discussion in the field of expertise, which are precisely aimed at deepening the solutions we have found in the negotiating process. But, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, neither PSD nor CDS are part of this negotiation or are part of the solution, quite the contrary, the results of right-wing policy are precisely the problems we are now trying to solve.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u28	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u29	Mrs. Members of the PSD and the CDS, unless you have changed your opinion on this Budget, on past budgets, or on the policy of return of income and return of rights, do not have our vote to clear your past and the past of your policies. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u30	Mrs Assumption Cristas now says that teachers are right and even presents in the State budget a rule that goes in this direction. It is true, Mrs Deputies, that the teachers are right, but they were also right when their government gave them a humiliating proof. [[PSD protests.]] The teachers were also right when their government sent them to requalification, which is the advance of dismissal. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u31	The teachers were also right when their government cut funding to education and closed schools. Workers and teachers were also right when their government did not register in the Stability Programme for 2019 the defrosting careers. Teachers are right, but the reason for the CDS to give reason to teachers is pure political opportunism, at this very moment. [[Congratulations from BE.]] [[Protests by PSD MP Jorge Paulo Oliveira.]] It is political opportunism, it can only be political opportunism and it is nothing else. PSD and CDS are against everything, but they want more than anything. [[PSD protests.]] You think it's too early to download the IRS? Propose IRS maintenance! You think it's too early to freeze careers? Proposal to maintain the freezing of careers! Do you think it's too early or are we giving too many pensions? You're going to give me less pensions! They don't propose any of this. They propose more in total opportunism. They want support for territorial cohesion when they have previously closed courts, schools, finance, public services inside. They want to promote the return of migrants who sent to emigrate with austerity policies, with precariousness and without any future for young people. They now want to take on all the projects that they have rejected in the past. [[CDS-PP protests.]] They want everything and want much more: they also want to protect your particular interests.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u32	That's not easy!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u33	That is why they come here to promote and propose more tax benefits to stock market speculation and to profit in stock exchange.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u34	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u35	That is why they come here to promote less taxes for big profits and luxury heritage.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u36	Yeah, yeah!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u37	That is why they come here to promote the facilitation of tax planning. Ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we're here to negotiate and deepen the agreements we made to return rights and incomes, but it doesn't count on us... [[PSD protests.]] ...to protect political opportunism, to whiten the past from the right or to protect customers from the custom. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u38	You have the floor for an intervention, Mrs Heloísa Apollonia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u39	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Ladies and gentlemen, if you will allow me, Mrs Mariana Mortágua, I will make a statement on the assessment you have made on the right. I believe that the right does not really consider it early to recover income and rights. Right feels it's wrong and this makes all the difference. That's because what the right told us was transient, actually, was definitive. [[PSD protests.]] The right considers that society is more or less a law of the jungle and that those who have less and who are weaker socially cannot have certain rights that the richest must have. That is why we must ensure that the State budget is, in fact, the translation of the political options that are made. in this State budget, the option does not go to what the right would take as the first option, which was to tax relief to large economic groups and large companies. This State budget makes an option for the people and for those who work, by relieving them more taxes. This wasn't the right option. And it's not because it's not because it's early, nor late, it's because it considers that this is not the real option. The right considered that cuts in incomes were absolutely necessary for the country and that they were to stay. I recall again what they said in order to convince the Portuguese, that cut income would never be what they had been in 2011 again.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u40	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u41	So this was to be definitive! This State budget makes a different option: it makes an option to recover income. The right didn't want to safeguard public services. That's now you can even get into your speech, but that wasn't your option! Its option was to weaken public services and to privatize them, to surrender them to the private sector. This cannot be the option of a State budget where Greens enter the negotiation! The option must be the most effective public services. So, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in fact, there are very different political options here, and it is not by any chance that the PSD began its intervention in the debate of this State budget, saying that this budget is backwards. The word of order is to retreat! This is how the PSD designates the fact that an Budget enables people to gain rights and income.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u42	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u43	It's a retreat for them, because they made a completely different path. Now, the Greens obviously do not fit into this reasoning and logic and we present concrete proposals for amendments, in the field of specialty, to this State budget that are precisely in the sense of greater effectiveness of public services, as I mentioned, in particular in services as fundamental as education and health, respecting its professionals and all the agents who are part of its dynamics. We make proposals for amendments to ensure that careers are frozen, but with justice as they progress. We make proposals for amendments to ensure the greatest resistance of our forest and greater conservation of nature. We make concrete proposals to ensure sustainable mobility in our country and to improve energy production also at the level of sustainability. Finally, it is precisely in the debate on the speciality in which we will then come into question that the Greens will argue their concrete proposals. [[Applause from The Greens and the PCP.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u44	You have the floor, Mr. Secretary of State for Parliamentary Affairs.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u45	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, first of all, I would like to wish all parliamentary groups and all Members, a fruitful debate, a good debate, so that in the end the State budget can be even better than what has been given to this Parliament. That is our objective, and that is how we view the parliamentary debate, the House of Democracy, the most important organ of our democracy. This is more a Budget of Advances, it is more a Budget that proves to the Portuguese people that, contrary to what they have been telling you for years, it is possible to live better in Portugal. When, in this budget, we increase pensions, we are not being electoralists, we are giving nothing to anyone, we are respecting those who have worked a whole life and deserve a reform with dignity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] When, in this budget, we lower taxes not for capital income but for middle- and middle-low-class workers we are not being electoralists, we are respecting those who work and earn little in Portugal and deserve all of us respect and an important budgetary effort. When we defuse our careers, once again, we are not being electoralists, nor giving anything to anyone, we are respecting those who work every day in hospitals, schools, on the streets of this country. We are respecting state workers,... [[Protests from PSD Members.]] ...we are respecting the contract that the State has with its workers. [[P.S.'s applause.]] contrary to those who say that we give everything to everyone, we do all this with the lowest budget deficit in the history of Portuguese democracy! We do this all again, lowering public debt. It is respectful that this budget is being dealt with. Faces and expensive ladies. Ladies and gentlemen, the PSD wants more than this. The PSD has already agreed with the increase in pensions and had already said that it also wanted to freeze careers, that it wanted better public services, that it wanted the deficit zero and that it still wanted to lower taxes on profit companies, dividend taxes and tax on taxes. The PSD presents itself in this debate so as not to be taken seriously by anyone! The CDS doesn't want to stay behind. The CDS criticises irresponsibility, the impossible budget, but it has the courage — to be nice, to use the word 'boldness' — to present measures which, in contracts and investments, represent additional expenditure of EUR 1500 million! [[P.S.'s applause.]] The PSD and CDS are presented in the discussion of this Budget so that they are not taken seriously. They don't want to take that which is your role in the opposition seriously. [[Protests from PSD Members.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we have an important budget that respects and dignifies the Portuguese people and does not call into question the public accounts, because we will once again achieve, as we have achieved this year, a deficit lower than ever the PSD and the CDS could have imagined it would be possible. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u46	Let us turn to the discussion of proposal 93 - C of the CDS-PP, of adding a new article, Article 3. o -A — Maximum captivating limit in the State. To submit this proposal, Mr João Almeida has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u47	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Mrs and Mrss. Members: It was not easy to introduce the subject of seizures in the political debate in Portugal, but it was very fair that it had been achieved. We remember that since the General Account of the State of 2016 was known, the CDS reported an abuse of captives which meant a restriction of expenditure on what Parliament had approved, explaining: what Parliament approved was not what the government executed, what the parties supporting the government said they had achieved was a lie. It was a lie in 2016, confirmed in 2017 and the government was preparing to lie again in relation to 2018, waiting for the Left Block and the PCP to pass the lie, without having to intervene and show that they were indeed also complicit in this concealment. Turns out the CDS didn't give up. When we said that captives were more than they ever existed, the Minister of Finance said no, that it was equal to what had happened in other years. The report by UTAO (Technical Budget Support Unit) came to show that this was a lie and that this government effectively captivated as no one else had taken captive. When we said that there were captivating in fundamental areas, the government would secretly say: « There are no capitulations in the National Health Service, there are no capitulations in education, there are no capitulations in the functions of sovereignty ».
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u48	Now!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u49	Mrs. Members of the Government and Members of the Commission. Members who support this government, if there are no captives in these areas, why have you all now set aside exceptions to captivating precisely in these areas? Oh, my God! [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u50	Why is it that the parties that support the government now go after the CDS and the PSD, proposing that there be no captivating in education, proposing that there be no captivating in health, proposing that there be no captivating in the functions of sovereignty? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u51	We're not going back, we're always ahead!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u52	So if there were no captivating, why do you now make proposals to avoid them? Oh, my God! What was not serious in your words. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u53	What was not consistent in your speech. What was not true in the Budget that you approved. [[Congratulations on the CDS-PP and on the PSD.]] But it is not enough for the government to recognise that it has actually abused captives. It is not enough for the parties supporting the Government to recognize that there are fundamental areas of the State where captives need to be prevented. It is necessary to put a ceiling on these captivations, that is what we are presenting in this proposal, so that it is clear that the State will not be able to abuse and lie again, as it has lied in the last two years through the government and the parties that support it. In addition, transparency must be introduced, which works, so that this Parliament can actually vote if the government is actually fulfilling. It was worth introducing the subject of seizures because the services will work better, because the Budget will be more real and because the parties that support the government will be able to stop abusing a lie that has tried to get hidden. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u54	Mr Duarte Pacheco has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u55	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: We have already made the presentation of proposal 297 - C since it is on the same subject. Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The General Account of the State of 2016 was for this government the popular saying « cat hidden with the tail outside ». It was clear to everyone that the government said there was no austerity, that austerity had ended, but actually made record captivatements. In 2016, the captivatings were twice as many of those that had occurred in 2015 : a real plan B to achieve the goals it was committed to. For 2018, it is prepared in the basic proposal that we have to make more EUR 1800 million of captivating, close to 3% of the actual expenditure, apart from what the Minister of Finance can do, as in the past, in the decree of implementation of the budget. In view of this government behaviour, it becomes clear that two things need to be done: on the one hand, to establish a global ceiling, a limit to the value of captivating and, on the other, to give transparency to this whole process. This is why we present this proposal, a simple proposal to limit, with a ceiling of total expenditure, the value of the captives and demand the monthly report to Parliament and the Country of the captive program by activities, projects and all actions. The time has come for the truth: we will see in this House who plays theatre and who really wants to limit the volume of captivity and give transparency to this process. The choice is clear. Everyone's gonna take responsibility for it. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u56	Mr. João Galamba has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u57	Mr President, Mr. João Almeida said here that the government lied. No, sir! All this discussion about the seizures, triggered by the CDS and the PSD, is not because the government has lied, it is because the government has met and that is what neither the PSD nor the CDS accept. [[Oh!...]] [[Oh!...]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u58	Mrs. Members, the PSD and the CDS have been trying to invent austerity and cuts that accuse this government but that do not exist, and have always worked in mystification, trying to say that captives are cuts.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u59	No, no! I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u60	The problem is that the PSD and CDS arguments do not exist, because in all areas where PSD and CDS claim to have had huge seizures, which try to turn into cuts, spending and financial reinforcement in all these areas is a fact. So there's one thing that captivating cannot be, can't be cut, because in areas that so much concern you. Members of this government has invested more, no less, than the PSD and CDS in their government and what they would invest if they continued to govern. Captives are a way of controlling the increase in expenditure against the expenditure made by your government — the increase, not the reduction. That is why expenditure actually increases. It will not increase at the pace that the PCP, the Left Block and the Greens would like, but there is one thing they will all agree with, and just confirm, looking at the data: the expenditure has increased. Captives are therefore a fundamental instrument for the government to honour what it commits to Parliament, which is to present a budget, see the approved budget and then execute it, because it is the implementation of the budget that we are talking about. The constitutionally responsible for implementing the Budget is not to Parliament, it is to the Government. It is the government that executes it and is the government that is scrutinized and responsible for its implementation. This is precisely what the Government has at its disposal, in accordance with the law, to comply with the budget approved by this House. It is an instrument for implementing the Budget and not for cutting money, nor for disinvesting, it is for honouring the commitments and the budgetary goals with which the Government commits itself and with which the Country is committed. That's it, sirs. Members, which you do not accept, because when you want to impose a ceiling on captivating, what is really an attempt to boycott and sabotage the government's ability to honour its commitments. [[CDS-PP protests.]] What are you guys talking about? Members of the PSD and the CDS want to avoid that the government will do in 2018 what it did in 2016 and 2017: improve the life of the Portuguese generality, with an inverse policy that you have practiced and with much better results, particularly in budgetary targets that you have never achieved in 2011, neither in 2012, nor in 2013, nor in 2014, nor in 2015, because you left the country on the verge of a sanctions process.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u61	You left him on the edge of the bankruptcy!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u62	That's what torments you, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. What are you guys doing? Members propose here have never applied to your government. So, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not faced with a serious attempt to impose rigour on public accounts or to improve budgetary allocations in this or that service, but only in a desperate and unserious attempt to remove from this Government the instruments to carry out a responsibility, which is yours and, constitutionally, only yours, that is to carry out the Budget competently, as it has done so far. The Socialist Party, in line with the government's policy of captures, has identified areas where it is possible to make captives disappear. The reason for this is that this government, unlike the previous one, uses captivations to properly manage abnormal growth in the acquisition of goods and services. That's what the government does. The government sees areas where, year after year, there is an excessive growth in the acquisition of goods and services and imposes a better rigour in the execution of these funds. I still remember, a few years ago, when the PSD and CDS brandished around there, the rostrum, intermediate consumption, such as the solution to all the country's budgetary problems. They wanted to cut off, talk about 5,000 million goods and services acquisitions... I still remember hearing Miguel Macedo say that 5000 million goods and services acquisitions were the solution to the country's budgetary problems. These EUR 5000 million were acquisitions of goods and services in the SNS ( National Health Service ), which was always excluded from the seizures by this government. Now, what this government does is realize is that there are room for improvement in this area, there are margins to be more stringent and, in areas where, at the end of two years of implementation of this strategy, it was realized that this control was not necessary, so captivating is eliminated. What this Government does not, nor the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group will do, is to withdraw an instrument of good budgetary implementation from the Government which, for the first time in many years, has fulfilled what it has committed itself to. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u63	Mrs Mariana Mortágua has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u64	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members : Opportunism is the PSD and the CDS see, in the context of increased expenditure, a proposal to limit the captives which is lower than the captives that the PSD/CDS government practiced when they were cutting expenditure.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u65	Well seen! [[Rice from the CDS-PP Members João Pinho de Almeida and Nuno Magalhães.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u66	This is opportunism. Having said this, capitulations are excessive and not transparent and the Left Block has never been left out of this debate. We demand the fulfilment of three principles: fewer captivations and a total limit, more transparency and definitive exclusion of captivations in the field of health. These are the three proposals we have negotiated, these are the three proposals we have negotiated, which we have tabled and which we hope to see adopted in the context of the speciality. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u67	Mrs Paula Santos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u68	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members : The CFP brings the proposed debate to strengthen the capacity of response and the quality of public services and social functions of the State. We propose the elimination of captivating in the areas of education, higher education, health and public transport by rail and river, so that there is the necessary investment without these constraints.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u69	There are no captivating in education and health! Mr. Secretary of State said it here several times!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u70	Investments in these areas should have as priority the resolution of the problems affecting workers and the people, the improvement of public services and the social functions of the State and not the blind compliance with the European Union's taxes. We propose the hiring of workers in the Public Administration and in the business sector of the State — in health, education, transport, culture, justice, forces and security services, in the Armed Forces, in social security and in the ACT (Working Conditions Authority) and in the ISCED (Commission on Equality in Labour and Employment) — respecting workers' rights and ensuring stable working links. This is the mandatory condition to ensure the quality of public services. We propose that the administrative and financial autonomy of public undertakings, in particular in health and transport, be ensured with regard to their budgetary implementation, in particular in the hiring of workers or in the investment provided for in their budgets. The aim is to empower public undertakings in the implementation of their budget, thus no longer being subject to the Government's authorization for their implementation, which has been a real obstacle, preventing the hiring of workers and the carrying out of investments, which is creating serious constraints.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u71	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u72	We are bringing these proposals to debate today. We hope that they will be approved, and I address in particular the PSD and the CDS, so that after their interventions they can also contribute in this way to strengthening public services and the social functions of the State. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u73	Mr. Secretary of State of the Budget, John Leon, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u74	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: In the budgets of the previous government, losing the drastic cuts, initially, captivating rates were applied which reached 65 %. Just look at the budgets of the previous majority to see that there is an absolute contrast with the current government, with significant growth in the budgets and their implementation. With this government, the Budget and the children are managed to ensure balanced growth of expenditure without budgetary spillovers, exactly unlike the previous government, which presented two amending budgets per year, i.e. eight Reform budgets throughout the legislature. We are talking about the evolution of the budgets. We take into two sectors referred to by the CDS : education and health. in the education budget, the previous government cut EUR 1185 million, exactly the opposite of what this government does.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u75	The proposal is PCP, not CDS!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u76	In view of the 20 % cut made by the previous government, the current government has already returned about 20 % of the education budget.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u77	You have to explain that to the PCP! The proposal is from the PCP!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u78	Can you ask: and the execution? The implementation in education was even above the budget. We talk about health: during the previous government, between 2011 and 2015, there was a cut in the health budget of EUR 400 million. With the current government we have already rejected the effects of the troika and we are above the value of the previous government. What about the execution? The execution even stood above what we had planned.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u79	And the calotes were too high!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u80	What has served this investment in education and health for? in education, more important than we executed were the measures we implemented: the fight against school failure. in health, the great bet was on investment in human resources, in which we have an increase of 8.5% in the number of doctors and nurses, we reach the highest ever value of doctors and nurses, which we all recognize to be important in an aging country. [[Congrats from PS Members.]] The CDS and the right would like to criticise the « irresponsible» and « radical of the left» budget, but what are they doing in front of this left-wing budget? The CDS, as a whole, adds the budgetary impact between expenditure and revenue of EUR 1900 million to the « radical left-wing » budget! [[CDS-PP protests.]] We're talking about expenses and revenues, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen. The CDS now believes that in the Budgets what is approved in the Assembly of the Republic is not spending ceilings. No, it is necessary to execute all expenditure, whether there is revenue or not, whether it is necessary or not! And the CDS applied this to the previous governments?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u81	Yeah, no! He never applied these captives!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u82	No, in previous governments, the expenditure executed was often below the budget. To give an example of the proposals for seizures, the CDS now presents proposals for seizures which it has never applied to the previous government.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u83	No, he never applied these captives!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u84	I'm going to give an example: the CDS proposes that there are no captivations for an extended set of ministries. Did you apply that during your government? No, in all the ministries in which the captivity is now proposed, during the previous government there were captives. In view of this, it is all said about the seriousness of the measures proposed by the CDS. What is the objective of the measures proposed by the CDS? It is only to provoke and decharacterise the Budget and prevent the majority of parliament from having a responsible, balanced and income-responsive budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u85	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, let us turn to proposal 88 - C, tabled by the CDS-PP, for the addition of a new article, Article 4. o -A — Budget allocation for the Porta 65 - Youth programme. To speak, Mr Simão Ribeiro has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u86	Mr President, this article deals precisely with a matter which is of the utmost importance with regard to the capacity for emancipation between Portuguese youth. It is also in line with a proposal from the PSD Parliamentary Group which corresponds to Article 161. o and proposal 230 - C of the State budget, which provides for an increase in the budget allocation for this programme of EUR 18 million. Therefore, with regard to this measure, I have to say only two words: one, of satisfaction, because I see that it is not the PSD Parliamentary Group alone to have an obvious concern about this important and fundamental issue for Portuguese youth; the other, of regret, because we regret that, after the discussion on the Porta 65 initiative, in which the Government has been announcing to the four winds the increase in the budget allocation, it is necessary once again to be the Assembly of the Republic and the Members of these parliamentary banks to make the necessary amendments. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u87	To speak on this article, Mrs Helena Roseta has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u88	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: I think that probably the honourable Member who has just spoken should not have had time to see all the amendments that have been tabled, because the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group makes a proposal to strengthen the allocation of Gate 65 - Youth... [[PSD protests.]] I'm talking to you. Ladies and gentlemen! If you don't mind, listen to the end. As I said, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group makes a proposal for an amendment to strengthen the allocation of this Programme for the same amount as the PSD and the CDS proposed. So there's no reason here to make the criticism you did. By the way, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that we have recently discussed in this Chamber the amendment to the Porta 65 Youth Programme and that there has been a commitment from the Socialist Party Parliamentary Group to return the money that would be needed, and the minimum amount is EUR 18 million. Of course, it is still insufficient, but we have included this proposal in a broad package of new-generation housing policies, which is in public consultation. It's just a contribution, but it's here. We have not failed our commitment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u89	Mrs. Members, let us turn to the proposal for an addendum to Article 5. o -A — Ministerial offices presented by the PSD. Mr. Carlos Santos Silva has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u90	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The Portuguese are waiting for a government to set an example, which is regulated, prudent and weighted in its performance. Thus, it is not at least acceptable for a country where it is still speaking in austerity and where records of tax burden are being collected — i.e. EUR 3000 million, in the coming year — no limits are placed on spending in the Public Administration. A country where capitulations are carried out here and capitulations there—not even the IPO operating block has escaped! — where public services are degraded all day long and where the government reacts late and bad hours to tragedies, a State that no longer manages to take account of itself, resolves, sees well, in an unsurpassed and scandalous way, providing itself with an increase of 23 % in its expenditure with the ministerial offices. Mr Secretary of State, after presenting a proposal of these, I ask you: is this government to take it seriously? This government speaks of Simplex every day, but it has no way of creating one for itself. It's unbelievable! I would also like to ask the sides on the left to agree with this situation. Where are the palladins of good public spending today? Do you feel comfortable? The parties who, clinging to the megaphone, said that other policies were needed and that austerity killed, are now contributing to the state's new fattening, in what is its worst component: the ministerial offices. We therefore propose that this expenditure be withdrawn from the ministerial offices and that it be affected by other measures, in particular those which the PSD presents, so important to the Portuguese and the future of Portugal. [[PSD applause.]] [[BE's protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u91	I'm asking the ladies. Members and the parliamentary groups to sign up in advance because we need to know, when the discussion of an article ends, what is the following article, taking into account the entries there is. Now, in the long run, this becomes very complex for the Bureau. We move on to Article 9. o — Budget transfers. Mr. Paulo Neves, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u92	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: in this article, the Social Democratic Party recalls, and well, the need for structural interventions in the country. in our case, in the case of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, of course the highlight goes to the construction of the new hospital in Madeira. As you all know — this whole Parliament is unanimous — there is an urgent need for the construction of this new hospital. And there is, by the central government, a promise that is not being fulfilled.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u93	That's not true!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u94	There is a need and there was a promise from Mr. Prime Minister, made, above, in Madeira, but there is no correspondence in this State budget. The Socialist Party, this government and the parties that support this government, on purpose, forgot and did not put any money for the construction of the new hospital in Madeira. It is absolutely unacceptable discrimination, because what they say to demand from Madeira is not demanding other areas of the country where new hospitals are also being built. That is why Mr President of the Assembly of the Republic, ladies and gentlemen. State Secretaries, Madeirans do not accept this negative discrimination. The project is already being done, the construction is already being done and there are budgeted funds in the Legislative Assembly of the Autonomous Region of Madeira and the Regional Government of Madeira, to which the Government of the Republic should correspond.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u95	There are also five amendments!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u96	It is your obligation and it is a commitment that they have made and that they are not fulfilling, that is to write money for the construction of the new hospital in Madeira. It is unacceptable, unacceptable and we denounce this very in this House. [[Congrats from PSD Members.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u97	Mr Luís Vilhena, from the PS, has the floor on this article.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u98	Mr President, what we have heard Mr Neves say contains a series of cliffs and even some scientific fiction. [[That's a laugh from PS Carlos César.]] It is because you said that there was already the construction of a hospital and, in fact, there is no building of a hospital. And we are only discussing this matter from Madeira's hospital because the PS has managed to sign up the commitment of 50% of the cost of building the hospital — underlining, of building the hospital.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u99	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u100	In fact, it makes no sense to have a specific amount for this hospital construction matter when the Regional Government has not yet concluded the acquisition and expropriation of land and has not yet done the project according to the new functional program. So it doesn't make any sense. Thus, in the State Budget for 2018, we maintained the commitment of the State Budget for 2017 to co-finance the construction of the hospital by 50 %. And this is because Mr. Prime Minister also took into account that the construction of this Madeira hospital was a project of common interest. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u101	Still on this Article 9. Mr Nuno Magalhães, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u102	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This article and this proposal from the PSD on Madeira's hospital ( and we could also talk about the Sixth Hospital ) are the mirror of this government and this majority. That is, first, go to the places, make promises to the people, make the announcements, the covers of the newspapers, the party; then arrive at Lisbon and forget what they did. The 'number' is done, but there is no budget. We have heard Mr. Luís Vilhena say, "We are committed to Madeira's hospital" — and we could also talk about the Sixth Hospital. But, Mr. Deputy, we, who? We, who? Oh, my God! [[PS protests.]] You? A PCP? The Left Block? Or the government? It is that you have approved a budget which is proof of your kind of policy: go, advertise and lie! Here, it's not a captivating, it's a lie. You promise in Sixal a hospital for Sixal and approve, in Lisbon, a budget that gives zero. They promise in Madeira a hospital for Madeira and approve, in Lisbon, a budget that gives zero. [[PS protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u103	50%!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u104	You have a policy in this regard, which is this: you announce and then you do not pay. And that's what we've heard about, and we've seen something very similar a few years ago. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u105	Also on this Article 9. Mr Paulino Ascenção has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u106	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: Madeira Hospital is certainly a necessity, but it has been an eternal priority postponed by the regional governments of the PSD,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u107	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u108	... that they have done everything and something else—they have made stadiums and made quails and marines that do nothing for nothing—but the hospital has been eternally postponed. This majority has found a solution: the state's commitment to share in the construction of this work by 50 %. Now, the regional government is not moving forward with its share, it has not made the expropriations, it is not in a position to launch the public tender. There are no conditions for spending on the construction of the new hospital during the year 2018, because the projects are not adapted to the new functional program that has been developed in the meantime, nor the expropriations are completed, far from it! Therefore, if there is no hospital in Madeira, this is due to the concern of the PSD, which has always had other priorities. In fact, the current government, and already the former government, continues to find money for works of priority more than doubt and for what matters to people—because more urgent than the new hospital is to put the health system to work, in order to respond to the current needs of people — chaos remains and the problems remain forever, especially because there is no political will of the regional government. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u109	Mrs. Members, the proposal for an addendum to Article 14 is followed. o -A — Opening of competitive procedures within the framework of the multiannual strategy for the requalification and modernisation of the system for the execution of penalties and educational protective measures presented by BE. Mr. José Manuel Pureza has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u110	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The prison and educational protection system is a key test site for a culture of human rights in Portugal. We have a problem of the structure of the prison population, we have a problem of overcrowding prisons, we have a problem of chronic overcrowding this responsibility of the State, we have a prison park in severe degradation and we have an unacceptable investment in social reintegration policies. But above all, we have a social and political deresponsibility to this reality. The Left Block proposed a year ago that the Government should present a report on the diagnosis of the prison system and a programme of interventions for its re-qualification in building and in material and human resources. This proposal was adopted and the report was brought to the public last September. The country now knows what needs to be done. There is a survey of what exists and a programming of these tasks, with a 10-year horizon. But because it does not accept that this is another report that dies in the inertia of those who have an obligation to give it life, the Left Block now proposes that in 2018 the Government introduce the timetable for the implementation of the intervention strategy in the prison system and trigger the competitive procedures for the completion of the building requalification and for the beginning of the filling of vacancies of senior social reintegration technicians and higher reeducation technicians. It is a proposal for a path that will honor Portuguese democracy, strengthening human rights where they are most difficult to assert. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u111	We have moved on to the proposal for an addendum to Article 16. -A— Late payments submitted by the PSD. Mrs Inês Domingos has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u112	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: This government only increases demands for self-employed businesses and workers, but it thinks it can pay late and bad hours. The former Government had reduced payments by 75 % late to 920 million euros by the end of 2015, and with this Government increased again to EUR 1200 million. It is in order to avoid this behaviour that can only be referred to as a « boiler », that the PSD has made a proposal to oblige the Government to submit a concrete debt reduction plan, to reduce that amount by 30 % by the end of 2018, and to introduce penalties to non-compliance entities which will then be distributed by the creditors of late payments from the State. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u113	We looked at the proposal for an addendum to Article 18. o -A— Extraordinary reduction of late payments in EPE hospitals presented by the CDS-PP. Mrs. Isabel Galriza Neto has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u114	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The CDS has been here for two years—and here, in plenary and in other circumstances, we have been the first to do so, alerting the extraordinary amount of debts and caps to the suppliers of the SNS ( National Health Service ), which have grown to EUR 42 million per month and already exceed EUR 1300 million. We have warned for this because these have been, together with the captivating, the garrote that has captured the SNS, which has committed health care to the Portuguese and that, moreover, has compromised the working conditions of the health professionals, who may even bring more money home but you will recognize that, with the climate of conflict we have, they are certainly not satisfied and are the first to say that the working conditions in the SNS have not improved, rather, they have worsened. We have already spoken here about the captives, such as the Left Block and the PCP have already recognized and with which, after that, they have been consistent, because they have not withdrawn the political consequences of this and therefore have to give account to their followers. As I said, we have already talked about captivating, but we really have to talk about these debts, because in fact the CDS is not available for the correction of the deficit and the replacement of wages to be made at the cost of disinvestment in public services, deinvestment in the National Health Service, which has happened in the last two years and cannot continue to happen. In fact, what we want to say, Mr President, is that we are putting forward concrete proposals on reducing late payments to hospital providers. Despite the kind announcements that Mr. Minister here made, after two years of recognizing that these debts captured the SNS and threatened their sustainability, what the CDS expects from this concrete proposal is that we move from advertisements to practice, which effectively ceases to complicate with a situation that captures the SNS, as we have said, and that health becomes indeed a priority for this government, for the finances of this government, and do not continue to delude Portuguese with false promises. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u115	Mr António Sales of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u116	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the EPE hospitals ( business public entities) are in fact an essential element in the Portuguese health system, which represents 78 % of the public administration's debts. Its responsible management is, in fact, an imperative, allowing the balance of public accounts not to be undermined on the one hand and the quality of the service provided on the other. From 2017 to 2018, expenditure on reclassified public entities, where EPE hospitals are inserted, has an absolute variation of EUR 277 million, i.e. an increasing variation of 5, 5 %, increases from 5067 million to 5345 million. This increase reflects the improvement of sustainability, avoiding the increasing increase in late payments as well as the expansion of the planned expenditure for 2018. With no availability and resources for a full payment, decide—and well! — the Government, in this State budget, makes a phased payment, which means, Madam Member, not in a kind announcement but in a real announcement, in a notice of respect by suppliers,... [[Protests by the Member of the CDS-PP Cecilia Meireles.]] ... an investment announcement, or a capital injection, of EUR 400 million by the end of the year, plus EUR 500 million in statutory capital by the end of the year and more EUR 500 million by the beginning of next year. We therefore choose in a responsible and transparent way to do so in a phased way, according to availability, not jeopardizing the balance of public accounts. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u117	Mr. Secretary of State of the Budget, John Leon, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u118	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in relation to the SNS, the parties on the right have a contradictory speech,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u119	No, no! The contradictory speech is from the sides of the left!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u120	... because they say there are captivating when there are no captivating in the SNS and say that the execution of the expenditure is below the budget when what happens is exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u121	Don't pay!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u122	The expenditure of the SNS has been rising at a higher rate than the budgeted because the government has decided to give priority to investment in the SNS and the evolution of indebtedness is the reflection of this government bet, which is exactly the opposite of what it has said right. In view of this wager in the SNS, what has the government planned until the end of the year? There will be an extraordinary reinforcement of EUR 400 million in November and December for the SNS and for the payment of SNS debts and we will arrive at the end of the year with a amount of late payments below the previous year. In addition, a capital injection of EUR 500 million is planned this year, which, with the reinforcement that will be made next year, will allow us to reduce late debts in the SNS to less than half. The value of late payments at the end of this year will be below last year...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u123	But not two years ago!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u124	...and next year, it's going to be in a value that's half of today's. So what the right cannot do is, on the one hand, say that we are spending less on the SNS and, on the other, say that we are spending more on the SNS, because there are two speeches that cannot be held simultaneously. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u125	It's duty more or duty less! It has to do with serious!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u126	Mrs. Members, let us turn to the proposal of the Block of Left to Add an Article 18. -A— eliminates the reduction of 10 % to the amount of unemployment allowance after 180 days of grant. Mrs Isabel Pires of the Left Block Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u127	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with a proposal which, as we have said several times, is of the most fundamental justice, not only because it reflects on the income of these people but also because it concerns one of the most preconceived measures of the previous government, which has always had as a political mark disrespect for people, for those who work and for those who need the most. If in the previous year we were able to eliminate this 10% cut for those who won below the social support indexer (IAS), which was an important step, this year we will take an even more important step, which is indeed the opportunity to end, once and for all, with a 10% cut in unemployment allowance after 180 days, which has no meaning, is unfair and reflects an ideological policy of prejudice towards the unemployed. It is therefore extremely important to approve this proposal for the Left Block and also for the thousands of unemployed who are in this situation. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u128	Mr Tiago Barbosa Ribeiro of the PS Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u129	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we are faced with an Budget which, as we have already said and we want to reiterate, is a Budget of National Poverty, is a Budget of Recovery of Rights, is a Budget of Return of Income and is, above all, a Budget that promotes dignity as the central value of our political action. in the priorities we have entered in this State budget we seek to dignify those who work, we seek to dignify those who have less and we also want to dignify those who are in such a difficult situation in their lives, as is the case of the unemployed. At the initiative of the Socialist Party, we have already cut off the « Mota Soares court » on unemployment allowance so that no unemployed will receive below the value of the IAS established in our State and, from now on, we will extend this dignity, approving the proposals that are on the table regarding this cut, an ideological cut, a cut that seeks that the unemployed who receive a benefit for whom they have discounted will have a higher cut, forcing them to have lower incomes and forcing them, perhaps, to accept works below that which is a considerable value of dignity for their career. We will therefore be following these proposals and we will seek to see that these priorities are reflected in the budget. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u130	Mrs. Members, let us turn to Article 19. o — Remuneration valuations, Section I. Mrs Rita Rato of the CFP Parliamentary Group has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u131	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the initial proposal of the State Budget for 2018 restates the full payment of extraordinary work, night work and quality hours, confirming a path of recovery of rights. We need to go further, which is what the CFP has said. for the first time in more than 10 years, the State Budget for 2018 gives workers the right to progress in careers.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u132	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u133	This is not a government offer or a worker's privilege.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u134	It's been 10 years! What happened? Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u135	It is not a privilege for workers because what the freezing of progress meant was a theft and an attack on workers' rights.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u136	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u137	That is why what we are talking about here is so much more than compliance with what was enshrined in the law and agreed between the State and the workers. The CFP presents a proposal that aims to resolve three issues. First: to ensure that all service time is relevant for career progression, because work is to be accounted for, can not put the counter-kilometres to 0...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u138	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u139	... and to ensure in the law that, with regard to careers in which service time is particularly relevant for the advancement and promotion of remuneration, all the time of service for these purposes is accounted for, as is the case for teachers, but also for the professionals of the security forces and services, the military, the judicial officials, the magistrates, among others. Second proposal: to ensure that workers placed in the so-called "virtual indices" and that they are therefore considered only part of their normal progression, see the points consumed proportionally to the remuneration recovery that occurred without being impaired. Third question: ensuring that the one-point allocation rule for each year of service to workers who have not been evaluated or who have been assessed under outdated systems does not prejudice those workers who have more favourable schemes. The CFP proposal aims to safeguard that, in cases where there are always more favourable systems for workers, such as nurses, they apply. We present another proposal to eliminate the freezing of the value of the meal allowance and submit a proposal to reduce the value of the discount of workers for the SAD ( Health Care Service ), the ADM ( Assistance in Military Disease) and the ADSE ( Assistance in Disease to State Servants ). These are proposals for valuing work and valuing public services. [[PCP applause.]] [[Meanwhile, Vice President Jorge Lacão took the presidency.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u140	Mrs. Joana Mortagua from the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u141	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Government members, this is the article that the right did not want, is the article that interrupts the course of destruction of the rights of public service workers, which interrupts the new normal that was the destruction of the rights of employees of the Public Administration. We, on this side, know that there could be no return to normality without defrosting the careers of public servants and we know that this has to be done with justice and that no blackout of service time can remain as a mark of austerity in the lives of these people. That is why we propose two things: the first is the repositioning of the teachers who entered the career and had the right to be repositioned but were " hanged" by the PSD and the CDS, and the second is the integral count of the time of service for career progression, in terms of negotiating with the unions. Ladies and gentlemen. Members, no one asks for back-up here, neither the trade unions, nor the workers, nor the Left Block. What is asked for is respect for whom he worked every day. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u142	Mr Adam Silva, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u143	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, on the defrosting of public officials' careers, would say that the PSD wants the defrosting of public officials' careers,... [[PS and BE protests.]] ...but I want to alert you to four points that seem essential to us.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u144	Pretend! You're faggots!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u145	First of all, Mrs Joana Mortágua has to finish this cynicism around this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u146	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u147	Who first froze the careers was a government of José Socrates, in 2010,... [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u148	... that included in the Troika Programme this same freezing. [[PSD applause.]] [[PCP protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u149	And you voted for it!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u150	More: in 2016 and 2017, with your support, Mrs Deputy, with the support of the PS, the PCP and the Left Block, continued to freeze these careers. [[All right!]] That's enough! No more cynicism, Your Honor! [[PSD applause.]] [[Protests from BE MP Joana Mortagua.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u151	After that, the PSD does not accept that this matter is surrounded by contradictions. After all, is this freezing for tomorrow? Is it yesterday?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u152	It's January!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u153	How many people does it cover? After all, do you stop or do you stop counting your time? According to Costa, stop counting the time of the careers. Will you work? We don't know! You seem to want me to go through... and you have to ask Mrs. Deputy whether she's stopping or not. Madam Member, we are facing a sea of doubts, a real mess. Thirdly, this process is full of demagogy and populism.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u154	But how does the PSD vote?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u155	Some are promoted, others are not promoted, some have frozen careers, others do not have frozen careers, that is, this government is a government that is looting and governance has become a political fair where those who talk most are the ones who win the most. A complete irresponsibility!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u156	How do you vote for thawing? Tell me!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u157	Where is the structural reform of the Public Administration, the modernization of the Public Administration? There are a whole set of responses, there are illusions, this government is creating illusions, and we know what this government's illusions give us when we look at 2009.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u158	Oh, I get it! You can only vote against this!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u159	Finally, there is a finished immorality, because, after all, they do not say how much this costs, after all, they do not say how this will be paid, after all, they do not say whether this is paid and what is stopped paying. Says Dr. António Costa that we cannot consume all the resources we work with in the state. Aren't you? Oh, my God! We thought so! Now we can't! The door was opened and it cannot be closed. Therefore, one cannot accept this immorality, especially if it is to be the governments of the future to pay for the dismissals of the present. [[All right! Exactly!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u160	And how does the PSD vote? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u161	We already know very well what it was to pay for the dismissals of a socialist government. They do not put us in another situation of distress as we live from 2011 to 2015. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u162	You now have the floor of the Member of the CDS-PP, Filipe Anacoreta Correia.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u163	Is it now that they're going to explain how they're going to thaw without spending? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u164	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the government must govern, the opposition must be controlled and the PCP and the Left Block must be a third route that no one has yet understood very well, but it is still an irony of history that the third route is headed by the PCP and the Left Block.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u165	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u166	But the government must govern and the CDS, the opposition, must be monitored. And, ladies and gentlemen. Secretary of State, Mr. Members of the Government, the government has gone very badly in this matter.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u167	How does the CDS vote? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u168	Wait another 3 or 4 hours and you'll see!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u169	Otherwise, let us see: the government proclaimed a truth, a story that told the Portuguese, saying that austerity had ended. But when you're going to see it and you expect the tax reduction to be for everyone, you see it's not! It is not for independent workers, who will pay more taxes.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u170	That's not to continue!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u171	Truth!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u172	When it is expected that the update of the lowest pensions will be the same for all we see that it is not! The lowest of the lowest will be increased in less than the others and wickedness among them is increased. And when it is expected that the defrosting of careers will be the same for all, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, we see it's not! It's not the same for everyone and that's unfair. The CDS does not accept this injustice and has to do what the Portuguese expect you to do: denounce a serious injustice.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u173	Ah! Denunciation! Open...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u174	In view of this, the government has a problem in hand, it has to tell the Portuguese that there is after all austerity, but this is a big mess. What we will not allow is that the government will do again what was the recipe of the past, shoot forward,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u175	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u176	Who shot forward? Oh, my God! They had the frozen expenditure!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u177	... shoot for the future and thus harm the Portuguese who will be here again tomorrow because the government and the state are unable to satisfy the vain promises and the wilful promises of a fragile government and in the hands of the trade unions and the parties with whom they have to negotiate their support. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u178	The CDS votes 'no'!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u179	Mrs Heloísa Apollonia of the Greens has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u180	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the position of the Greens with regard to the freezing of careers is extremely well known. We really believe that it was a mistake and we have no problem, Mr Adam Silva — as we must calculate and, moreover, as we have stated at the time — to say that the freezing of careers was done in the time of the PS government, as it is obvious! I don't understand what the problem is with Mr... [[PSD protests.]] But we must not forget that, in the meantime, there was a government of the PSD and the CDS which, during a whole mandate, did not defuse careers. During an entire term he kept that freeze of careers! And, if we remember, this PSD and CDS government told the Portuguese that when the troika was going to return to normal, wouldn't it? But it continued the freezing of careers. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u181	Well remembered!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u182	And now what happens? What happens is that Mr. Adam Silva comes here and says: "We are not against the freezing of careers", but then he says that they are against the thawing of careers, calling him a ban! [[Protests by PSD Members Adam Silva and Maria das Mercês Borges.]] An order that will compromise the present and compromise the future. Mr President, is it fair or not that these career progressions are frozen? It's fair, it's obvious that it's fair.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u183	PSD doesn't think so!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u184	But the honourable Member cannot explain to the House — and that is its great incongruence — how they defused their careers without spending another piece of cake! [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u185	They didn't freeze!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u186	Mr President, it is not worth having a principle and then considering that it is not applicable in practice. This is a question of justice. These people, civil servants, have been harmed for years, years and years! Now is the time to say" enough! to put an end to this injustice. To do this, careers need to be frozen. What The Greens say is that defrosting careers cannot, himself, constitute a problem and create injustices of such order that cannot be understood, of course, and create themselves more injustice factors. in this sense, what The Greens specifically propose is that all the time of service be counted for the purposes of defrosting the career.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u187	And how do they do it? Oh, my God!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u188	Even if it is a phased and progressive one, as the unions have already admitted, the time of service must be counted, because it cannot be passed a cloth, a rubber about that time as if it had not existed. It was about time public officials put public services into operation: teachers, military, security forces, judicial officials... there are a lot of people in these circumstances. Therefore, with the right principle of defrosting careers, we cannot create new injustices. That is what the Greens are calling on the Government and all the banks of this House to approve our proposal. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u189	Mr. Secretary of State for Administration and Public Employment, Maria de Fátima Fonseca now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u190	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members, it is a pleasure to be here to contribute, I hope, to clarify some misconceptions that have been mentioned, underlined and repeated very insistently with regard to what is contained in the proposal for a State Budget for 2018 for the Public Administration and for workers in public service. Let me run away from any kind of qualification if I can...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u191	Madam Secretary of State, I am sorry, but we are here dealing with a technical problem with sound, which is with this irritating feedback. Technicians are trying to solve the problem, I don't know if it's going to be immediately or not. Let's try to continue. I would ask the Secretary of State to resume her speech. Let's see if we have any conditions. Mr. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u192	I don't know if the sound's in good condition.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u193	Let's see.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u194	I would like to reiterate my congratulations again: Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the sound is still not in condition.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u195	Madam Secretary of State, I am very sorry for this inconvenience, to you and to the honourable Members. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter entirely outside the Bureau, of course. I would ask the Secretary of State to take a break because we are here to consult the technical services. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, the services are asking us for a 10-minute break to try to restart the system. That's what we're gonna do. The Secretary of State will resume her speech at the beginning of her work. [[We will resume the session at 11 a.m. and 50 minutes.]] Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's interrupt the work. [[It was 11 hours and 40 minutes.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u196	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, the session is resumed. [[It was 11 hours and 56 minutes.]] We believe the problem is solved. I'm asking the ladies. Ladies and gentlemen who meet the conditions in the Chamber to resume our work. You have the floor, then, to resume your speech, the Secretary of State for Administration and Public Employment.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u197	Thank you very much, Mr President. Apparently, everything is now in condition, after the chill caused by the theme in the Assembly sound system of the Republic. If you'll excuse me, I'll try to get my hands on the facts. And first of all, the Government is clearly fulfilling its commitments with regard to what has been enshrined in its Government Programme and clearly determining a line of appreciation and training of the Public Administration to serve the country. It is clear to us that this way of valuing public administration can only be carried out collaboratively, in dialogue, in negotiations with the partners, in particular with representatives of workers, in search of consensus, actively listening to all stakeholders and discussing, more than claims, the paths we must pave for our common future. Of course, this discussion and this negotiation are going through concrete situations, but they also go through the definition of strategies and paths to introduce greater equity in a system that is intrinsically, at this time and for many years, very different. The defreezing of careers is one of the measures enshrined in this most emblematic State Budget for Public Administration. It is not the only one, and we could mention many others that have already been mentioned here by the various banks, but it is in fact one of the structural measures, and it has a value, it is not a measure that can meet miraculously at zero cost, it has an estimated value of 650 million euros, structured over three fiscal years. So we don't do miracles. We make the accounts, we define the moment when each option should have budgetary repercussions and, at the moment, the defrosting of careers, in the model that was defined and discussed after long debate with the partners, is a model that is solid and that part of a set of assumptions that have always been clear. The master beams of the thawing process were defined in active discussion with the unions over two months and mechanisms were found that allow for defrosting careers from 2018 onwards, in a responsible manner and with an overall view of the impact of decisions on this matter. As I said, the assumptions were clear from the first hour. We are defusing what the law has frozen, in terms of freezing, we are defusing every career as it has been frozen. And careers have been frozen, yes, differently, because careers are intrinsically different and this is a fact that we cannot ignore. Having regard to the accounts and having considered the various options, we now have a procedure with all the decisions on this matter taken under this legislation. We designed a universal process, which covers all careers, having repercussions in 2018 already about half the world of workers in public functions. We have a process that respects the system of each career, its own rules of remuneration development, so that the process is as fair and fair as possible. We have a process that does not ignore the freezing regime, because over these years the careers have been frozen by successive laws of the State budget, and these laws have accurately defined the terms of the freezing. We also have a process that formally recognizes all the rights of remuneration development, so that there is no doubt about the position or level of remuneration to which the worker is entitled. We also have a process which, for obvious budgetary reasons, must be, necessarily, gradual and compatible with all the needs that the State budget must address, and which foresees — as entered in the Government's Programme and repeated in the Great Plan Options and in the State Budget Act itself of 2017 — the payment of the remuneration increases resulting from the thawing of four parcels which have already been defined and which are beginning to take place in 2018. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members: The defrosting of careers — this aspect, which is not in detail, has already been mentioned several times — does not rewrite the past. The defreezing of careers allows us to resume normality and prepare the future, solidly and responsibly, with a global view of what we want for Public Administration, with time and rationality in speech. It is a process that will necessarily be based on dialogue and serious discussion about what the career system means in the public employment system and as support for a strong public administration that develops robust and sustainable policies over time. Repeat, thawing is not a remedy for what needs to be improved, but thawing has made the differences that exist in career systems in Public Administration evident. We all have the clarity to address in a lucid way, because the country so demands, and above all, we do not confuse the plans: to thaw is not to rewrite the past, to thaw is to remove the blockades to the normal wage development of careers. Another theme is to look at the effects that freezing has produced in the various careers of Public Administration, to evaluate these effects and to consider the changes that, structurally and based on a serious dialogue, we will have to debate to introduce at the very moment. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u198	Mr Adam Silva asked for the floor, I believe that under Article 19. o. Then you have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u199	Mr President, I just wanted to mention two or three aspects. With regard to Mrs Heloísa Apolónia, I am very grateful for the references she made to me and, above all, the readiness to acknowledge that it was from 2010 onwards in the Government of José Socrates that this process was frozen. But, Mrs. Member, the same readiness would also be important to recognize that in 2016 and 2017, with the support of V. Exa in the adoption of the Budget, the career process also continued frozen. [[PSD applause.]] V. Exa also made reference to some more questions about time counting, etc. etc. Addressing me at the time of the past, but I do not think you should address me, you should address Mr. Prime Minister, because Mr. Prime Minister has already spoken on a brake on the timing of careers and says that we cannot consume all the resources with which he works in the state. Therefore, Mrs Deputy, address the Prime Minister to the Government, because on this matter, in which there is a great contradiction here, there is nothing I can say. Mr. Secretary of State, we obviously liked listening. It is true that this is a very confusing matter and has been well proved, in fact, by the noise of Parliament's media, which also did not help, which is normal, in a confused matter, the government adds this noise. V. Exa speaks in a solid model, clear assumptions, universal thawing, but, Madam Secretary of State, this is clearly a question that was born cake and will not be directed. I tell you more: at this moment, you are trying to straighten the shadow of the cake stick, but it is not possible to straighten it, because the stick is crooked and therefore cannot straighten the question at the end. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u200	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, today we have some technological problems. this time, it was the time that was not being discounted, although it was recorded, i.e., it was recorded but not discounted. The services will do the right thing. At this point, Mrs. Joana Mortágua, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u201	Mr President, Mr Adam Silva, the PSD was indignant because the Left Block said that the PSD does not like the defrosting careers, swore here on foot together that they intended to defrost the careers of civil servants and Mrs Cristian Assumption even said that the teachers were right. So, to stop the clash and the taboo that is being created, what you need to know is: how are you going to vote? Are you going to vote in favour of thawing or antifreezing? [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u202	Mrs. Wanda Guimarães of the PS now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u203	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Members of Parliament and Members of the Commission. Members, I understand the immense inconvenience of the PSD and even some more painful factor in discussing this matter, because, in fact, what you have done and what you have brought here is proof of your immense political incompetence for four years and of enormous social insensitivity. [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] Ladies and gentlemen. Members, this budget represents the challenge of a government, at the same time fulfilling its promises, fulfilling what is included in its Programme and having a sustainable budget based on a fundamental issue, which we are discussing, which is the valuing of work in public service. This, whether you want to or not, represents a structural reform towards what we have, because only with motivated and contented workers can we have quality public services, which are the only ones that guarantee equal opportunities between citizens. With regard to the career and remuneration of workers, Article 19. that of the bill once again enshrines the promise of the Socialist Party, which, whether it likes or not, concerned the defrosting of careers. It concerned not the replacement or retroactivity of careers, but the defrosting of careers, which represents a very important step for public administration workers, by unlocking careers, by establishing criteria for the implementation of the evaluation, by determining the mandatory changes of remuneration positioning and, even more important, by ensuring equality between workers, which is a fundamental issue. In addition, this amendment gives room to collective bargaining by reposing in paragraph 13 what was in our view a failure, i.e. workers in the public business sector are not covered by collective bargaining. As for the rest, the government does what it has always done, that is to say, give room to collective bargaining. This is what is intended with this amendment, it is not only to establish a balanced improvement for public administration workers with the defrosting of their careers and with new conditions regarding their profession but also to give room for collective bargaining, so all the problems related to progress should be discussed in this area or in social dialogue. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u204	At this point, Mrs Rita Rato has the floor of the CFP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u205	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary of State, so responsible, was the one who froze as the one who kept and aggravated the freezing, and on this there are no matters. [[PSD protests.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u206	It was you!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u207	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, if you want to listen carefully, if you do not want to, you will be on the side of those who live well because you have been responsible for maintaining and exacerbating the freezing of careers. Since the first hour that the CFP worked in this area and the Secretary of State knows, as well as the previous Secretary of State, that the CFP has maintained and demanded to work in the area of defrosting careers, because defrosting is not unfair, which was unfair freezing. And the PCP did not say so only in 2015 or 2016, the PCP has said - it since 2010, in fact, the PCP voted against it in 2010, when the PSD voted in favour. [[PSD protests.]] Therefore, Madam Secretary of State, what we want is for the CFP proposal to be approved, because it will clarify the accounting of all the time of service. Public administration workers, be teachers, be military, be security personnel, cannot be harmed twice, i.e. by freezing and not counting the time of service and therefore the proposal of the CFP safeguards this matter and is an essential proposal for the guarantee of workers' rights. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u208	The Bureau shall no longer register any entries in respect of this Article.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u209	I thought it was now that the PSD was going to say how it took away zero euros!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u210	Mrs. Article 37 is under discussion. o — Process of extraordinary linkage of teaching staff. Mr. Under-Secretary of State and Education, Alexandra Leitão.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u211	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this rule empowers the Government to make an extraordinary link of teachers, which will thus cease to be in the position of contractors and enter the career. In 2017, we linked about 3,500 teachers in 2018, we will link so many others, which means that in the total of these two years we have linked the unpublished number of 7000 teachers who will thus cease to be in the contract and begin to enter the career. This is proof of the importance we give to the stability of the teachers' lives, their valorization and the fight against this class's precariousness. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u212	Mr. Deputy of the Left Block Joana Mortagua now has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u213	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no public school of quality with precarious teachers and that, for the most part, everyone understands. Therefore, the Left Block gave priority to combating precariousness in schools and, in particular, teachers. Even at the stage of discussion of the State budget in general, we negotiated with the Government an extraordinary process of regularization of precarious teachers, which is so important to bind thousands of teachers but also for the future. It is important not only to correct past injustices but to prevent future injustices, for example, by changing the norm-work so that the recruitment group will fall as a filter, to reduce the number of contracts needed and that, in future, the linkage will be the standard of teachers in public school. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u214	We now move on to the proposal submitted by BE to add articles 39. -A — Remuneration of pre-hospital emergency technicians and 39. o-B — Remuneration of pre-hospital emergency technicians. Mr. Moisés Ferreira, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u215	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, senior diagnostic and therapeutic technicians have been on strike since November 2, there are 20 consecutive days. They demand respect for the important work they do and that the diplomas that allow the transition to the new career be published. The struggle of these professionals reminds each and every one of us that, if we want a capable National Health Service, we need to have more professionals and professionals working in decent conditions. For this reason, the Left Block proposes amendments to this State budget so that the new remuneration regime of higher diagnostic and therapeutic technicians may be published once and for all, and so that pre-hospital emergency technicians, without which there is no INEM (National Institute of Medical Emergency ), can be valued in their remuneration and progress in their career without obstacles. They are measures of greater justice and are in the hands of all Members and all Members. Members approve them today in the Assembly of the Republic. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u216	Mrs. Members, let us turn to Article 40. o — Replacement of subcontracting of companies by hiring health professionals. Mr Luís Vales, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u217	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this article of the State Budget for 2018 provides for the second consecutive year that the Government replaces the subcontracting of companies by hiring health professionals under the SNS ( National Health Service ). This is a fictional standard, since the use of medical services is increasing in the SNS, also for the second consecutive year. These benefits, the annual charges of which the previous PSD governments have decreased from EUR 130 million to EUR 80 million, are now increasing with the PS Government, the PCP and the Left Block to over EUR 100 million. The Portuguese Communist Party and the Left Block, which once veered against the so-called "training doctors", now shut up and consent, thus revealing the most finished political hypocrisy. [[PCP and BE protests.]] As for the Government of the Socialist Party, it sinks into promises that it does not fulfill, degrades Portuguese access to the National Health Service, disrespects the patients and increasingly weakens the SNS. This article, by not quantifying the reduction in the use of the services of the SNS, is worth less than nothing and it is for everyone to know that the complicity parties of the present majority will not fail to vote in favour of this legal vacuum. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u218	Mr. Secretary of State of Health has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u219	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in response to the question which Mr Luís Vales has just tabled, I would like to say the following: the Government has made a huge effort in the admission of staff to the National Health Service. Between 2015 and 2017, the year when you left the government, and this year, the number of health professionals increased, calculate there, Mr. Deputie, 6119 ; doctors, 2171 ; nurses, 2953. The overall increase of professionals was 4, 8 %; physicians, 8, 1 %; and nurses, 7, 2 %. I would like to recall that if we look at the timeline, in relation to previous governments, we find that between 2011 and 2015 the number of health professionals decreases due to the work of this majority. It is regrettable that you come here to ask doctors and nurses with all this pressure, when they did exactly the opposite. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u220	Don't look at me!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u221	Mrs. Members, let us turn to Article 44. o — Strengthening human resources for the conservation of nature and biodiversity. Mr Manuel Frexes, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u222	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say here, without wheels and with all the border, that the wording provided for in Article 44. It's a shame. To mention in the Budget that the Government will, as far as needs are concerned, strengthen the human resources of the ICNF (Instituto da Conservação da Nature and Forests), in particular in the prevention of fires, is to continue to work on the policy of face-to-face, reliable conversation and, indeed, it is a lack of respect for the Portuguese, especially those who have suffered so much with the tragedy of the fires this year. Moreover, such irresponsibility, which has already occurred in the previous two budgetary years of your Government, has also been based on the serious consequences of this summer's fires. If there was anything that all the ICNF leaders said when the Committee on the Environment, which I am part of, visited the burned areas, it was exactly the pressing lack of human resources. Ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, say today and here, without reservation, what human resources they will hire to meet the pressing needs. What are the costs and consequent budgetary adjustment? Does this unfortunate formulation — and I will finish — also intend to extinguish the ICNF and allow the realization of this pilgrimage idea of creating a new public enterprise to manage the forest? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u223	Who wanted to extinguish the ICNF were you!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u224	We shall proceed to the discussion of the proposal for an addendum to Article 58. o -A — Training for citizenship, presented by PS. Mrs. Susana Amador from the PS has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u225	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we all know that the most continuing presence of citizenship in education and in public school is essential for children and young people to have access to a set of rights and duties that can be conveyed so that in the future adults and adults with a conduct that can favour equality in interpersonal relations, integration in difference and respect for human rights. The National Education Strategy for Citizenship supports this goal, is being implemented in schools that currently have autonomy and curriculum flexibility, in consensus and convergence with the profile of the student. The essential learnings, the solid construction of the humanistic formation of students is vital and the curriculum component Citizenship and Development competes, in fact, for this great design, in which teachers are vital and decisive. hence, a training plan that can contemplate gender equality and dating violence is essential for us to reverse this cycle of perpetuation of inequalities, which continues to reach all generations and which is perfectly shaped in the internal security report, on violence in dating, violence in school, or in the last investigations that the MAI (Ministry of Internal Administration) has developed, in which the violence in dating continues to affect many of our young people, legitimizing conduct that is violent. The Socialist Party therefore believes that it is essential for our teachers to have access to a training plan that integrates these issues in particular, so that our society can, in essence, not only promote equal opportunities, gender equality, but also reverse, in a definitive and lasting way, this continuing cycle of inequality. It is for this purpose that this amendment proposal, in which we hope, can all be reviewed, since it is a question of society, of human rights and, above all, of equality between men and women, which must start early and early in our schools so that citizenship is part of a school that, above all, can empower citizens, young people, children and contribute to a more just, more humane society within the reach of modernity and the 21st century. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u226	Mrs. Members, let us discuss the proposal for an addendum to Article 59. the A — Aid under the environmental fund on the third island, submitted by the PS. Mrs. Lara Martinho, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u227	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, this State budget is already the best budget for the Azores, at least for the last 14 years. But we believe that we can still improve it, for example, with the approval of this amendment to support water supply in the municipality of Praia da Vitória, on the Third Island. It has been a priority of the Azores Government and the Victorian Beach Authority to ensure the quality of the water that is provided to the city's population. To ensure that water supply is made safely, the Authority performs a set of periodic analyses. In 2016, the results of these analyses show that water for human consumption is guaranteed 99, 39 % of quality, but despite these results, which should rest the population on the quality of the water they currently consume, there is no doubt a demanding and constant work to ensure that existing environmental contamination does not affect the supply of quality water to the third island population. In view of this well-awaited commitment, the Vitoria Beach Authority began the deactivation of water capture holes in the Juncal area — which is located near the Lajes Base — for them to present risks to public health in the medium and long term. However, in addition to the deactivation of these holes, the City Hall of Praia da Vitória still sees itself with another problem: the United States of America has already informed the Portuguese authorities that they will no longer supply the communities located in the vicinity of the Base das Lajes, particularly the neighborhood of Santa Rita. The city's water supply capacity is thus reduced to a minimum and, in order to respond to these needs caused by third parties, the municipality is obliged to move forward with an extensive investment to ensure the strengthening of water supply in the municipality. With this proposal we are discussing today, it is intended to ensure that, through the Environmental Fund, due aid is given to the city of Praia da Vitória, on the one hand, ensuring support for the implementation of the strengthening of water supply to the city of Praia da Vitória and, on the other, support for the costs of monitoring and monitoring the quality of water in the municipality. However, I note that this effort, despite being another important step towards the Third Island, does not invalidate the urgent need to ensure rapid and effective decontamination by the United States of America. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u228	Mrs. Members, the discussion of the proposal for an addendum to Article 60 is followed. A — Interest charges, presented by PS. Mr Luís Vilhena, from the PS, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u229	Mr President, we are talking about the debt interest of the Autonomous Region of Madeira to the State and I begin by saying that there has been some exaggeration of language in some way when the PSD often claims that the State earns money from Madeira. It must be said that the debt of Madeira which was contracted at a rate of 3, 375 % was 22 years in the long term, in fact the same as the State would also have hired, if not higher, and which continues to pay. So if we were just for a technical matter, we wouldn't go there. We also know that the rates at which the State has been financed recently are lower and in the short term and therefore with benefits to the State and also the result of the success of the policies of this government. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u230	We therefore propose that there be an impact of these benefits on Madeira's loan interest rate, but it will always be a political issue, in which the State will give a sign of solidarity and with a significant impact on Madeira's economy. The fact is that once the PSD has also tried to revise the value of these rates, but it has not succeeded. We have achieved that the reduction of this rate should at least be discussed and will certainly be discussed between the two governments — the Regional Government and the Government of the Republic — and therefore we are optimistic that this reduction of the rate will have an impact on Madeira's economy. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u231	Mrs. Members, let us turn to the discussion of the proposal for an addendum to Article 60. o-C — Review of the terms of the PAEF loan to the Autonomous Region of Madeira, submitted by the PSD. Mrs. Rubina Berardo from the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u232	Mr. President, we have a serious problem with the PS's lack of memory here. It is that the PS needs a small political Memoranda, because, Mr. Luís Vilhena, it is not enough optimism, we have to fulfill the promises that have been made. About Madeira’s loan interest rate, who in 2015 strongly defended the reduction of that rate? The current Prime Minister! Who has put forward motions for resolutions that go further than the vague proposal of the PS in this State budget, which only says that "it will assess the conditions" and which, in the meantime, have removed these motions for resolutions? It was the PS Parliamentary Group that presented these issues. If they are consistent with what they stand for in the past, if they defend what the PS/Madeira defends in Madeira, they will also have the consistency to approve the immediate reduction of the interest rate. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u233	In this connection, Mr Under-Secretary of State and Finance has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u234	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, on the issue which we have had a chance here today to discuss the interest rate of the Madeira Economic and Financial Assistance Programme, as I said, there is availability of the Government of the Republic to look at the cost of financing. however, we must have the notion that the fall in interest rates that the Republic has benefited has resulted from a set of measures and a policy of prudent debt management, in anticipation of payments to the IMF (International Monetary Fund ) and debt substitution which had been issued at higher interest rates for lower interest debt. The official debt that was incurred with the FSF ( World Social Forum ) and the FSM ( Municipal Social Fund ) remains honored and we continue to pay the interest of that debt, interest, those which are determined by the conditions set out in the Economic and Financial Assistance Programme ( PAEF ). Having said that, there is availability by the Government of the Republic to, in the context of a fall in the financing costs of the Republic, pass these financing costs to the extent appropriate for the financing of the PAEF of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, which does not necessarily mean that it involves a fall in rates to levels which have often been announced and have come to the public. in the same way, there is availability to consider an interest rate that may vary according to the interest rate of the financing of the Republic. This availability exists. We cannot have the illusion that the rates will always be coming down, because at some point in the future—and we are talking about 22-year funding—the rates will rise. And in that case there will of course also be a transmission of these financing costs to the Autonomous Region of Madeira. All this seems correct to me, it seems to me something that we can discuss and see to what extent we can do, but there must continue to be a scrupulously compliance with the Programme of Economic and Financial Assistance by the Autonomous Region of Madeira, which also allows the reduction of financing costs to be translated into better financing conditions for the companies in Madeira and to make the region more financially sustainable. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u235	On Article 61. o — Amounts of the participation of local authorities in State taxes, has the floor of Mrs Berta Cabral of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u236	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, in this Budget, when we should be talking about the value to be transferred to municipalities facing new competences for 2018, we are still discussing the non-compliance of the current Local Finance Act, a non-compliance of at least EUR 74 million. In other words, a breach equivalent to two-thirds of that which should be the transfer to the municipalities. How is it explained that at a time when decentralization, subsidiarity and proximity are key words for the government, that government itself responds with a poor distribution of tax revenue, violating the Local Finance Act? How is it explained that, at a time when local power is faced with severe drought throughout the country and with the destruction resulting from fires, the State denies the municipalities its legal share of the taxes they are entitled to? How is it explained that, since the municipalities were the main net contributors to the reduction of deficit and debt, the State penalizes them for having been fulfilling? I anticipate that they will tell me that also in our government we do not comply with the Local Finance Act, but I hope that we are not now, as we were at the time, on the brink of bankruptcy! [[PS protests.]] It is the government that says we have returned the page of austerity. Thus, full transfer is required, because EUR 74 million less in municipalities means a deprivation of a potential investment co-financed with Community funds of the order of EUR 370 million, an essential investment to provide valuable aid to the populations in the replacement of infrastructure and in the replacement of productive potential. Any budget presupposes choices and the government chose to make its choices: it opted for demagogy and populism, instead of supporting the populations through the municipalities; and it chose to decentralize competences and centralize revenue. Don't forget that! The government decentralised powers and centralized revenue. Definitely, that's not a good sign for the coming times. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u237	Mrs Maria da Luz Rosinha has the floor of the PS.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u238	Mr President, it is very curious to see that sometimes there are moments of total amnesia in relation to the matters in question. in the case of local power, when we hear Mrs Berta Cabral we realize that they have forgotten and gone blank everything the PSD and CDS did when they were in government. The Socialist Party, it is true, has taken a course in relation to local power. In addition, those who read the opinions of the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities ( ANMP ) and the National Association of Freguesias ( ANAFRE ) found exactly that the local authorities, in one area and another, recognize the government's efforts. The Socialist Party has the local power and the authorities as effective partners—and I am glad that Mrs Berta Cabral has publicly taken the interest of the bench she represents in the area of decentralization—and that 2018 is a year of commitments from all the banks for greater competence and autonomy for local power. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u239	Mr. Secretary of State for Local Authorities has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u240	Mr. President, with due regard, Mrs. and Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, I am addressing Mrs Berta Cabral to tell her that the government has been in convergence over these two years with respect to the full compliance of the Local Finance Act. I would remind Mrs Berta Cabral that in the best year of the PSD / PP government, which was distributed by the municipalities was EUR 2357 million and in this Budget it is expected to transfer to the municipalities EUR 2491 million. In other words, there are significant differences and which are very recognized, and well, by the National Association of Portuguese Municipalities. I also remind Mrs Berta Cabral that the process of decentralization is being delivered, and well delivered, by the Government in this House of the Republic and the expectation is enormous, and well founded, that from there comes the best for people and for our territory. Finally, I would like to say to the honourable Member that I have the firm conviction that it will be with a Socialist Party Government that the Local Finance Act will be fully respected. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u241	Mrs. Members, the PS requested, and there was consensus from all parliamentary groups, the postponement, for tomorrow's session, of the discussion of the proposed addendum to Article 68. the -A— Extinction of public-private partnerships in the municipal sector, presented by the PSD. We shall therefore proceed to the discussion of the proposal for an addendum to Article 81. o-B— Single career of local firefighters, presented by the Block of Left. Mrs. Sandra Cunha from the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u242	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot pretend to have an effective civil protection system, nor can we mislead Portuguese and Portuguese with the idea that things are changing with regard to prevention and firefighting when disrespect for those who risk their own lives to save other people's goods and lives is so flagrant. The municipal professional firefighters receive the minimum order and the permanent availability allowances are already included in it. It's 575 € to save lives! The discrepancy concerning flying firemen, who have the same training and perform the same functions, reaches €400 and are obliged to retire before legal age and with gross penalties — courtesy of the right government, the PSD and the CDS. The integration of professional firefighters into a single career and its regulation is a measure claimed more than 20 years ago. The previous governments did nothing, this government promised to do something two years ago, but nothing does. [[Ah!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u243	The Left Block proposes that in 2018 this injustice be resolved once and for all with a new legal regime of firefighters resulting in the uniformization of the careers of scalable and municipal firefighters, in particular with regard to working hours, remuneration and retirement. Enough injustice and disrespect for the firefighters and firefighters of Portugal! [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u244	Let us turn to Article 89. o — Loans from municipalities for urban rehabilitation operations. Mr Pedro Soares of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u245	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the deficit in the supply of public housing is known, it is detected and, in fact, it is recognised, as I am, by consensus by this Parliament. It is essential that we also address the enormous housing shortages, which are urgent and which have been detected through an investigation conducted by the IHRU ( Institute for Housing and Urban Rehabilitation) by decision of the Government and also recommended by this Assembly of the Republic. The efforts of the central administration to ensure that all Portuguese and all Portuguese are entitled to housing are essential and it is essential that the central administration have the means to do so, but also that local administration is allowed to be involved in the pursuit of this objective of the right to housing. With the proposal for decentralization that we are discussing in the Assembly of the Republic, which will lead to more responsibilities for housing, this issue of means for the authorities becomes even more pressing. in this sense, there is a fundamental instrument: that authorities can use credit to contribute to this effort of the right to housing and that they are not penalized within their limits of indebtedness on this matter. This is the proposal that the Left Block makes and is this proposal that, for us, it is essential for the authorities to be more involved in this effort by the right to housing in our country. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u246	We are now discussing the proposal for an addendum to Article 89. -A — Removal of the 10% cut in the amount of unemployment allowance after 180 days of its concession by the CFP. Mrs Diana Ferreira from the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u247	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, the deepening of the social rights of unemployed workers, pensioners and pensioners is the subject which the CFP has brought to debate. The increase in pensions and the new extraordinary increase envisaged take another step in the recovery of the purchasing power of pensioners. It was the persistence of the CFP that allowed us to enter, in this Budget, extraordinary increases covering 1 million and 600,000 reformed, which would otherwise not have these increases. It is also important to improve the social protection of unemployed workers. We therefore propose the elimination of the 10% cut-off in unemployment allowance for all unemployed workers, ending with a profound injustice that still affects many thousands of unemployed workers, who, after six months, are not entitled to 10 % of their social protection. We also propose the extension of the extraordinary measure of support for long-term unemployed, reducing by half the time available for access to this benefit. To go further in valuing long-term contributory careers and in correcting injustices already in 2018, we propose the elimination of the penalties of the sustainability factor, establishing criteria for the definition of a customised age of access to pension without penalties, bonuses depending on the contribution career. We present solutions for workers who, having been forced to advance their pension, see these penalties continue. We also propose the full recognition and counting of the mandatory military service time and any existing bonuses for retirement or retirement. These proposals which the CFP brings and its approval mean going further in the guarantee of more and better social rights. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u248	Mrs. Members, let us turn to the joint discussion of the proposals for the addition of Articles 89. o-B — Adjustment of the rate of contribution to the type of employment contract, 89. o-C — Access to the solidarity complement for the elderly and 89. o-D — Amendment to the system of reforms anticipated by flexibility presented by the Left Block. Mr. José Soeiro, of the Left Block, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u249	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, with the presentation of these three articles, we have responded to three problems of several generations. First of all, we want to make the employer's contribution to social security worse by three percentage points when contracts are temporary and final. This measure discourages the use of precarious forms of employment and is a source of revenue for social security, to which companies have charged the costs of their labour turnover strategy. Secondly, we want the State budget to have a clear commitment to the second and third phases of the revision of the early reform regime. In 2018, we cannot maintain double penalty for those who have worked their entire lives and are reformed at the end of forty years of discounts. These pensioners are already penalized by 6 % per year in which they anticipate the reform and each year the age of retirement increases. Does it make sense to add to these penalties plus 14% cut? Don't do it! And it's that double cut that has to end. Finally, we want to ensure a complement for pensioners who were injured by the rules of the previous government and who had income below the poverty threshold, after 30 and 40 years of discounts. With this supplement via the CSI (supportary complement for the elderly), we intend to ensure that no pensioner in advance has an income below the poverty threshold. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u250	You now have the floor to Mrs Diana Ferreira from the PCP.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u251	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, Mr José Soeiro, this proposal presented to us by BE with the drafting, in particular with regard to the single social rate ( TSU ), within the understanding of the CFP, can open the door to reducing company discounts for social security in relation to other contracts, which would be profoundly negative both for social security and for the social protection of workers. It is therefore important to know whether the Left Block is available to add to its proposal the ban on the reduction of TSU in the case of other contracts, because, with this added suggestion, the problem we have identified would be surrounded. It is therefore important to know whether the Left Block is available to make this amendment. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u252	Mr José Soeiro has the floor again.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u253	Mr President, Madam Member, the proposal from the Left Block does not open this possibility. We have an agreement with the Socialist Party,... [[Ah...!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u254	... which expressly states that we reject any reduction in the employer's TSU. In fact, we are promoting here in Parliament a parliamentary assessment just to reject — and this measure has been dropped — the reduction of the employer's TSU as a counterpart of the increase in the minimum wage. Therefore, there is no political doubt about the Bloc proposal, but we are, of course, available to accept the PCP's proposal for addition so that there is no legal doubt about our proposal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u255	We turn to Article 90. o — Extraordinary updating of pensions. Mrs Maria das Mercês Borges has the floor of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u256	Mr President, with regard to this article, we want to say that the Government intends to make an extraordinary increase in pensions to pensioners receiving less than € 640. The PSD agrees with this extraordinary increase; however, we have two objections and we ask: why in August? Why not in January, what's normal?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u257	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u258	Why do pensioners with lower pensions have to wait for August? Why do pensioners with lower pensions of all, the minimums of the minimums, the government wants to make a lower increase than it wants to give to others who, having lower pensions, are higher than those? Therefore, the PSD presents proposal 205 - C, which proposes that this extraordinary increase in pensions be paid from January 2018 and equal value for all pensioners. [[All right!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u259	I would also like, in this speech, to address proposal 198 - C, because the problem of aging deserves our best attention. We therefore propose that the Government undertake a statistical survey of all people living alone and under what conditions they live so that appropriate measures can be defined to support the decent aging of these people. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u260	Mrs. Members, let us discuss the proposal for an addendum to Article 90. the -A— Exceptional scheme for indexing the social benefits of the disabled of the Armed Forces, presented by the CDS-PP. Mr. João Rebelo, from the CDS-PP, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u261	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, we are proposing an exceptional scheme for indexing the social benefits of the disabled of the Armed Forces. As you know, Law No 53 - B / 2006 of 29 December allows Article 2 ( 4 ) through a device. the, which, by law, are exceptionally fixed other forms of indexation, provided that grounded reasons justify it, presenting this norm as a corollary to the principle of positive differentiation, as set out in Law No 4 / 2007 of 16 January, which approves the general basis of the social security system. The CDS-PP considers that there are groups of citizens, beneficiaries of social benefits based on a decrease in their general earning capacities, suffering in fulfilling the duty and in defending the interests of the Nation, whose situations justify setting a different reference to the IAS ( indexing of social support) more favourable in calculating and updating the reported benefits, reflecting the consideration that the moral and patriotic values represented by them should deserve from the State. In this case, these are the citizens who have served the military service in a particularly dangerous or dangerous environment, particularly in the old overseas territories, who have contracted deficiencies and have therefore been qualified as: disabled by the Armed Forces; military disabled; major disabled by the Armed Forces; and large disabled by the normal effective service. We therefore consider that this exceptional scheme should be created for the updating of these social benefits. In addition, I would like to recall that this proposal was presented in our disability package in April, which is currently being discussed in the working group, but the Socialist Party has postponed the vote by several dossiers. The commitment we had with the Association of Armed Forces Deficiencies was that this regime would enter into force on 1 January 2018, but, as the successive postponement in the working group of this proposal does not allow it to enter into force on that date, we have come to present this proposal at the state budget and propose that it be approved, because it has already been adopted in general. As you know, the labour law prevents this from happening and the diploma would only come into force on 1 January 2019, but this commitment which was reiterated by my party and by the President of my party makes this proposal for debate in plenary. [[CDS-PP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u262	We are now discussing the proposal for an addendum to Article 90. -A— Family allowance for children and young people, presented by the PCP. Mrs Diana Ferreira from the PCP has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u263	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, with regard to family allowance, have indeed been given positive steps in the previous State budget, steps, these, which, of course, the CFP values and refers to as important. But it is also important to go further on this path that has already begun in previous State budgets, particularly in the State budgets of 2016 and 2017. Exactly to continue this path and to go further, the CFP proposes the extension of the family allowance, in particular by increasing the scope of the 4. the staircase and resting the 5. o and 6. The steps. Family allowance is a right of children and we understand that all conditions must be created for a greater scope of this provision with a view to its universalization. To also respond to the needs of children and families and considering the inadequacies of the public pre-school education network, which push families into private supply and compromise the access of all on equal terms, we propose the extension of the public supply of pre-school education with the opening of 150 new rooms. These proposals respond to the needs felt by children and families in our country. [[PCP applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u264	We are now discussing the proposal for an addendum to Article 90. the -A— Age of reform for disabled workers, presented by the Left Block. Mr. Jorge Falcato of the Left Block has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u265	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, the generality of people with disabilities goes through a more rapid aging process, even with many people with disabilities who have an average life expectancy shorter than that of the general population. Symptoms such as pain, joint problems and fatigue are common, for example, in people with motor disabilities. In France, in Italy, in the United Kingdom, in neighbouring Spain but also in Brazil, the possibility of anticipating the age of reform of disabled workers is already a reality, recognizing the uniqueness of the situation of these workers and of these workers. They are people who exhaust themselves, for years and years, facing and overcoming barriers, which are imposed only on people with disabilities to be able to earn their lives. It's tired, it's soft and it leaves marks! There are too many people who face pain every morning, extreme tiredness, people who have to make a huge effort to endure a day of work, people must retire early. the need and urgency of this proposal. [[Congratulations from BE.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u266	We now turn to Article 91. o — Management balance of the Institute of Employment and Vocational Training. Mr Álvaro Batista, from the PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u267	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen. Members, calling here the PSD proposal for Article 48. o -A, I wanted to point out that the fight against precariousness in the state must begin to be a serious matter. This is the objective of this PSD initiative. There must be seriousness in the fight against precariousness, seriousness against the new precarious workers, seriousness in the action of this government. In order to avoid new barriers, to ensure that all young people have equal opportunities for public employment, to fight against all boys, it is essential to increase the transparency of new contracts. The PSD proposal, obliging the advertising of all non-permanent contracts, allows to act at the root of the problems, allows to fight precariousness before there is no other solution with sacrifice of workers with the future suspended for years before sacrificing the rule of law and equality. It's against transparency who has something to hide. Is this government transparent or not? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u268	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, after this intervention, it will not be said that the Bureau is not very benevolent in the conduct of the work. Let us turn to Article 94. o — Transfers to capitalisation. Mrs Clara Marques Mendes, PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u269	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members of the Government, Mrs. Members, the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund is a very important instrument for the maintenance and also for the survival of the social security system, which is fundamental to ensuring and ensuring compliance with the obligations, including pension payments. All matters relating to this Fund should therefore be objective and transparent. For here is Article 94. the failure. It is an omitted article, it is an article for which there is a lack of transparency and, above all, it does not comply with the Basics of Social Security Act.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u270	Exactly!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u271	We don't know how much money you're going to get in, when you're going in and what money you're going to come in. Therefore, the PSD submits an amendment to correct precisely this omission, which is unacceptable, an omission that does not guarantee, at any time, that workers, particularly pensioners, will have the fulfilment of their obligations. Therefore Article 94. it should expressly state that a portion of the contributions should revert to this Fund for Financial Stabilisation of Social Security. Only with this proposal will the law and workers' rights be guaranteed. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u272	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u273	To what effect, Mrs. Deputy?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u274	Mr President, for an appeal to the Bureau on the conduct of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u275	Please, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u276	Mr President, we are receiving — at least I am receiving amendments to proposals for articles which have already been discussed, as is the case with Article 19. the, for which we have now received a proposal to amend the PS, and also Article 35. I would like to know whether it is reasonable to make amendments to the amendments that have already been discussed, and they cannot have the same debate in the specialty, because, I suppose, they will not be discussed again, nor will there be time to do so.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u277	They can always be lawyers!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u278	They may even be altered as a result of the debate.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u279	Even worse!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u280	I call on you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u281	Is it also for an appeal to the Bureau, Mr?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u282	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u283	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u284	Mr. President, the debate is going on, the debate is dynamic... [[Ah...!]] [[Ah...!]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u285	... and, depending on the debate that has been held this morning, the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group presented a proposal for a replacement, which does not offer complexity in its analysis and reading, in order to remove a number of the proposal we had submitted in relation to Article 19. the same number, which is paragraph 16, in another proposal, will become Article 19. -A. It's just this. It seems to me that there is no way this proposal for a replacement could be accepted.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u286	Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, there are certain things that we must try to address in a wise way. at a first reading on the question that has been made, I believe that, if we are at a stage of appreciation in the specialty of proposals presented, it is to admit that the debate can serve something;...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u287	No, no!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u288	... if not, the debate is a rhetoric without any possible consequences. Consequently, if it is admitted that the debate has to be subordinated to a principle of usefulness, I believe that it will make sense that, as a result of the debate, there may be some correction or initiative complementary or supplementary to the proposals put forward, because we are at the stage of the debate in the specialty. The Bureau, therefore, unless there is another understanding between the parliamentary groups at the moment, does not see reason not to accept the proposals presented in the course of the opinions under discussion. This is the answer I have to give to Mrs Cecilia Meireles, asking the Members. Members who can interpret in the constructive sense in which the Bureau has just formulated.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u289	Mr. President, I call on you.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u290	Mr President, is it also for an appeal to the Bureau?
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u291	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u292	You have the word.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u293	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, including the argument that Mr President put to the House, would like to explain the following: there was a time limit for discussion, which took place for many weeks in the Commission and here in plenary, Mr President puts to the discussion an article, closes this discussion and goes on to the following article. Thus, a few minutes ago, Mr President showed the Bureau's complacency to refer to an article that had already been discussed and that no one had shown interest in intervening. Which means that if I want to discuss article 20 again. Mr President, I do not give the floor because he considers that the debate is already closed on this article.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u294	Sure!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u295	If so, it is neither curial nor loyal that, after the discussion of an article, hours or minutes later, proposals on the same article are entered, since Mr President declared the discussion of that article closed.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u296	So the discussion is useless!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u297	That is what Mr President has just defined, and well, and that is why I do not think it is curious that proposals be made on the subject which has already been discussed in plenary.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u298	That was not the decision of the Committee on Budgets, Finance and Administrative Modernisation last year.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u299	Mr. Duarte Pacheco, a coin has always two sides, as we say, and I believe that both understandings could be possible, since it depends on the majority option of the House. After listening and with all due consideration, I believe that it will make no sense to change the position I mentioned recently. If any parliamentary group does not comply with it, it has the statutory figure of the Bureau's decision-making action, and Mr knows this as well or better than I do. Mrs. Ladies and gentlemen, let's continue our work. You have the floor under Article 94. Mrs Sandra Pereira of the PSD.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u300	Mr President, on this article, the Social Security Financial Stabilisation Fund, as you all know, is a security reserve for the future payment of pensions and what happens is that you are using it for the construction and rehabilitation of houses. however, the use of this money should be made with the highest rigor and with the aim of profitability and maximizing to pay pensions in the future. in 2017, the government used EUR 50 million and my question is: what is the profit achieved with this operation? What are the benefits for the country and for social security that have been achieved with the use of these EUR 50 million in urban rehabilitation? What did you do with this money and how did you maximize it? The question is justified once again by the Government's intention in this year of 2018 to use more than 50 million for the same purpose and we ask what were these results achieved that justify that the Government will repeat once again the withdrawal of the money from future pensions.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u301	All right!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u302	Ladies and gentlemen. Members, pensioners deserve the reserve fund of their pensions not to be put at risk and wasted, as this government is doing. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u303	Mr. Secretary of State for Social Security has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u304	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, with regard to the proposal submitted by the PSD Parliamentary Group on transfers to the Financial Stabilisation Fund for Social Security, it will be important to clarify what we have seen in recent years. in the years 2012 and 2013 there were no transfers to the FEFSS. And there were no transfers to the FEFSS because there was an extraordinary transfer from the State budget to compensate for the deficit in the social security system, of more than 1, 3 billion and of 1, 4 billion respectively. This happened only because the tax revenue was lower than the contribution expenditure with benefits and pensions paid with this revenue. And this has happened over the years. In 2017, there will be transfers to the FEFSS. In 2016 200 million were transferred. Transfers to the FEFSS are made to the fair extent of the balance of the pension system, of what is the difference between the contribution revenue and the contribution expenditure, which the previous Government failed to do. [[PSD protests.]] He managed to create a deficit in the social security system. And he managed to create a deficit, however, by cutting some expenses. He managed to create a deficit, however, with a strong transfer of the State budget, a transfer of the State budget, which in the State budget for 2018 ended with it. [[P.S.'s applause.]] The social security welfare system in 2018 is balanced. It is balanced, it has incomes greater than contribution expenditure, and that is what we have to show here publicly. We can financially balance social security in the short term. We have a social security sustainability report that tells us that in the long term we have improved the longevity of the FEFSS in 10 years when compared to the 2015 social security sustainability report. The honourable Member did not refer to this either. Regarding contribution expenditure, we also have an extraordinary pension update, we also have the regular update that we reject in 2016. And, yes, we are updating pensions, we are updating about 2, 8 million pensioners, 3, 6 million pensions. We are talking about pensioners with very low pensions who, while you were government, did not have a single update. [[P.S.'s applause.]] About 266 000 pensioners with pensions less than 275 € did not have any pension updates, by option,...
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u305	By choice? It's a shame!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u306	... because your update was discretionary. They did not update pensions of 266 000 pensioners with pensions of less than 275 €,... [[P.S.'s applause.]] [[PSD protests.]] ... did not increase pensions by 1, 2 million pensioners with pensions less than 380 € — and did not do it by choice. This is the balance they have achieved in the public social security system, because of the public social security system I have many doubts that you have ever defended. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u307	Mrs. Members, let us turn to Article 97. o — measures of contribution to transparency. Mrs. Joana Barata Lopes, PSD, has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u308	Mr President, there is talk about the sustainability of social security and you — everyone — insist on the demagogy that prevents serious discussion. The PSD today presents four clear proposals: transparency and the duty of information; independent assessments of sustainability; governance with social partners in social security; and, yes, an independent committee that points possible solutions to a real problem. Where do you fit the ghosts that you shake? Are they going to vote against and lead the transparency? They've already guaranteed sustainability for 100 years, and it was a lie. Don't! They say the money ends in 2025 and the security network fails in 2047! Do you think the Portuguese, young and less young, comply with these deadlines of validity? The Portuguese have the right to vote and who should not be afraid. What makes you so afraid of scrutiny and truth? [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u309	under the same article, the Secretary of State for Social Security has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u310	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote, the truth and transparency don't scare us. If we look at the five years that you have been government, that transparency has bothered us immensely. [[PSD protests.]] We've stopped having social security statistics. [[P.S.'s applause.]] on the website, not the number of beneficiaries of social benefits you wanted to know. We no longer have strict implementation information. The only information you brought to the Assembly of the Republic was the monthly execution, which is published on the website of the DGO ( Directorate-General for Budget). And, yes, we are talking about fear, fear of making public and transparent what is information related to social security. [[PSD protests.]] We have no fear of transparency, but I also say more: it is not creating a committee that in 180 days will create the solution for the sustainability of social security, when you, in five years, have not been able to make even the short-term sustainability of social security. [[P.S.'s applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u311	It's your turn. Do what you have to do!
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u312	Mrs. Members, let us discuss the proposal for an addendum to Article 100. o -A— Exemption of social security contributions to fire-affected companies presented by the PSD. Mrs Susana Lamas of the PSD has the floor.
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u313	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Members, for the PSD the rapid recovery of the companies destroyed by the tragedy of the fires that took place this year is a predominance. Hundreds of jobs are involved, productive capacity and legitimate expectations of those who have invested in councils many already quite weakened and now destroyed by fire. The situation is of exceptional gravity and therefore exceptional measures are necessary. The PSD will not be complicit with the disregard that this proposal for State Budget makes to businesses and their decisive role for the future of our country. For this reason, we believe that the exemption of social security contributions to affected companies up to three years and working in fire-strike councils is not only a significant aid to the resumption of their economic activity and to the protection of employment, but also in the medium and long term, will result in more contributions and less expenditure on social security. [[PSD applause.]]
ParlaMint-PT_2017-11-22.u314	Mrs. Members, the Bureau no longer registers, taking into account the script of today's session, and therefore the examination work in the speciality is completed until Article 119. o, Law No 100 / XIII ( 3. ( a). I should now like to announce the agenda for the next sitting, which will take place tomorrow on 23 a.m. at 10 a.m. with the continuation of the debate, in the specialty, of the proposals of lein. 99 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the Great Plan Options for 2018 and 100 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) — Approves the State budget for 2018. First, the rules and proposals for amendments to the plenary will be discussed. I remember that, to this end, times are five minutes for the government, for each parliamentary group and for the NAP. Secondly, the vote will take place on the Rules of Procedure and on the Rules of Procedure and on the Articles and Proposals for Amendment sent to the Plenary. Finally, we will continue the debate in the specialty of Bill No 100 / XIII ( 3 ). ( a ) for which each parliamentary group, the NAP and the Government will have the total subtracted time of the one that has been used today. There is nothing else to mention but wish very good afternoon to all. The session is closed. [[It was 13 hours and 18 minutes.]]
